% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
% vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=100
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: sccpi.texi,v 0.9.2.3 2008-12-20 12:55:39 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2008-12-20 12:55:39 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================
\input texinfo @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=100
@c %**start of header
@setfilename sccpi.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Signalling Connection Control Part Interface (SCCPI)
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
@c %**end of header

@dircategory OpenSS7
@direntry
* SCCPI: (sccpi).		Signalling Connection Control Part Interface
@end direntry

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Signalling Connection Control Part Interface (SCCPI)
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file documents the OpenSS7 @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, for
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
published by @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation}.


Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}


All Rights Reserved.

Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results, provided the printed
document carries copying permission notice identical to this one except for the removal of this
paragraph (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all implied
warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title; that
the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.

OpenSS7 Corporation reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any reason,
including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies, utilization
of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the design of any
techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  OpenSS7 Corporation is under
no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Signalling Connection Control Part Interface (SCCPI)
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification

@set PART Signalling Connection Control
@set LONG Signalling Connection Control Part
@set SHORT SCCP
@set INTERFACE SCCPI

@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Distributed with Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@sp 2
@subtitle Copyright @copyright{} 2008  OpenSS7 Corporation
@subtitle All Rights Reserved.
@sp 4
@quotation
@subheading Abstract
This document is a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} containing technical details concerning the implementation of
the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} for OpenSS7.  It contains recommendations on software architecture as well
as platform and system applicability of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  It provides abstraction of the
@value{LONG} (@value{SHORT}) interface to these components as well as providing a basis for
@value{LONG} control for other @value{LONG} protocols.
@end quotation
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}

@noindent
All Rights Reserved.

@noindent
Unauthorized distribution or duplication is prohibited.

@subsubheading Published by:
@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@sp 1

@ignore
@noindent
This software and related documentation is protected by copyright and distributed under licenses
restricting its use, copying, distribution and decompilation.  No part of this software or related
documentation may be reproduced in any form by any means without the prior written authorization of
the copyright holder, and licensors, if any.

@noindent
The recipient of this document, by its retention and use, warrants that the recipient will protect
this information and keep it confidential, and will not disclose the information contained in this
document without the written permission of its owner.

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,,OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise this software and
documentation for any reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by
various agencies, utilization of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of
changes in the design of any techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,,OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any feature
listed herein.
@end ignore

@noindent
Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@subsubheading Notice:

@noindent
@b{OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE;
THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN
NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.}

@sp 1

@noindent
OpenSS7 Corporation reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any reason,
including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies, utilization
of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the design of any
techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  OpenSS7 Corporation is under
no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@iftex
@headings off
@everyheading @thistitle @| @thisfile @| @thischaptername
@evenheading @thischapter @| @| @thisfile
@oddheading @thistitle @| @| @thischaptername
@everyfooting Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL} @| @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @thispage
@evenfooting @thispage @| @| Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@oddfooting @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @| @thispage
@end iftex
@page

@c Define an index of primitives
@defcodeindex pr
@c Define an index of primitive values
@defcodeindex pv
@c Define an index of primitive error values
@defcodeindex pe
@c Define an index of protocol states
@defcodeindex st
@c Define an index of input-output controls
@defcodeindex ct
@c Define an index of manual pages.
@defcodeindex mp
@c Define an index of MIB objects.
@defcodeindex mo

@c frags out automake
@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for text, html and info
@syncodeindex pr cp
@syncodeindex pv cp
@syncodeindex pe cp
@syncodeindex st cp
@syncodeindex mp cp
@syncodeindex tp cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex ct cp
@syncodeindex mo cp
@c @end ifnottex

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi

@iftex

@macro prim{name}
@code{\name\}@prindex \name\
@end macro

@macro pval{name}
@code{\name\}@pvindex \name\
@end macro

@macro perr{name}
@code{[\name\]}@peindex \name\
@end macro

@macro psta{name}
@code{\name\}@stindex \name\
@end macro

@macro parm{name}
@var{\name\}@vrindex \name\
@end macro

@macro pioc{name}
@code{\name\}@ctindex \name\
@end macro

@macro mobj{name}
@code{\name\}@moindex \name\
@end macro

@end iftex

@ifnottex
@c skip deep indexing for plain text, html and info
@c it messes up column with maximums (texinfo bug)

@macro prim{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro pval{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro perr{name}
@code{[\name\]}
@end macro

@macro psta{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro parm{name}
@var{\name\}
@end macro

@macro pioc{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro mobj{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@end ifnottex

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{LONG} Interface
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Preface::
* Introduction::
* The @value{SHORT} Layer::
* @value{INTERFACE} Services Definition::
* @value{INTERFACE} Primitives::
* Diagnostics Requirements::
* @value{INTERFACE} Input-Output Controls::
* @value{INTERFACE} Management Information Base::
* Addendum for @value{SHORT} Conformance::
* Mapping @value{INTERFACE} Primitives::
* State/Event Tables::
* Precedence Tables::
@c * Allowable Sequence of @value{INTERFACE} Primitives::
@c * Precedence of @value{INTERFACE} Primitives::
@c * Guidelines for Protocol Independent @value{INTERFACE} Users::
@c * Required Information for @value{INTERFACE} Provider-Specific Addenda::
* @value{INTERFACE} Header Files::
* @value{INTERFACE} Library::
* @value{INTERFACE} Drivers and Modules::
* @value{INTERFACE} Utilities::
* @value{INTERFACE} File Formats::
* @value{INTERFACE} Compatibility and Porting::
* License::
* Glossary::
* Acronyms::
* References::
@c @iftex
@c * Indices::
@c @end iftex
@c @ifnottex
* Index::
@c @end ifnottex
@end menu

@iftex
@c insert list of figures and tables for printed manuals
@page
@heading List of Figures
@listoffloats Figure
@page
@heading List of Tables
@listoffloats Table
@end iftex

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@section Security Warning

@noindent
Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} not be used
in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} disclaims all warranties with regard to this
documentation including all implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose,
non-infringement, or title; that the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that
the implementation of such contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights,
trademarks or other rights.  In no event shall @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} be liable for any direct,
indirect, special or consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use,
data or profits, whether in an action of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out
of or in connection with any use of this document or the performance or implementation of the
contents thereof.

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} is making this documentation available as a
reference point for the industry.  While @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} believes that these interfaces
are well defined in this release of the document, minor changes may be made prior to products
conforming to the interfaces being made available.

@section Abstract

This document is a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} containing technical details concerning the implementation of
the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} for OpenSS7.  It contains recommendations on software architecture as well
as platform and system applicability of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

@noindent
This document specifies a @value{MANUAL_TITLE} Specification in support of the OpenSS7 @value{LONG}
(@value{SHORT}) protocol stacks.  It provides abstraction of the @value{PART} interface to these
components as well as providing a basis for @value{PART} control for other @value{PART} protocols.

@section Purpose

The purpose of this document is to provide technical documentation of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.
This document is intended to be included with the OpenSS7 @cite{STREAMS} software package released
by @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation}.  It is intended to assist software developers, maintainers and users
of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} with understanding the software architecture and technical interfaces
that are made available in the software package.

@section Intent

It is the intent of this document that it act as the primary source of information concerning the
@value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  This document is intended to provide information for writers of OpenSS7
@value{MANUAL_TITLE} applications as well as writers of OpenSS7 @value{MANUAL_TITLE} Users.

@section Audience

The audience for this document is software developers, maintainers and users and integrators of the
@value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  The target audience is developers and users of the OpenSS7 SS7 stack.

@section Disclaimer

Although the author has attempted to ensure that the information in this document is complete and
correct, neither the Author nor OpenSS7 Corporation will take any responsibility in it.

@section Revision History

Take care that you are working with a current version of this documentation: you will not be
notified of updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current version, check the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7 Project} website for a current version.
@sp 1
Only the texinfo or roff source is controlled.  A printed (or postscript) version of this document
is an @strong{UNCONTROLLED VERSION}.

@smallformat
@verbatim
$Log: sccpi.texi,v $
Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-12-20 12:55:39  brian
- add new mibs and agents

Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-11-26 12:01:34  brian
- updated to FDL 1.3

Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-11-17 14:04:33  brian
- added documentation and conversion modules

Revision 0.9.2.8  2008-09-20 11:04:29  brian
- added package patchlevel

Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-08-03 06:03:31  brian
- protected agains texinfo commands in log entries

Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-08-03 05:05:15  brian
- conditional @syncodeindex frags out automake, fails distcheck

Revision 0.9.2.5  2008-07-23 08:29:01  brian
- updated references and support for 2.6.18-92.1.6.el5 kernel

Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-07-11 09:36:12  brian
- updated documentation

Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-29 07:10:38  brian
- updating headers for release

Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/08/14 12:17:00  brian
- GPLv3 header updates

Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/06/27 08:42:19  brian
- added MTPI spec document
@end verbatim
@end smallformat

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

This document specifies a @cite{STREAMS}-based kernel-level instantiation of the ITU-T
@value{MANUAL_TITLE} definition.  The @value{MANUAL_TITLE} enables the user of a @value{PART}
service to access and use any of a variety of conforming @value{PART} providers without specific
knowledge of the provider's protocol.  The service interface is designed to support any network
@value{PART} protocol and user @value{PART} protocol.  This interface only specifies access to
@value{PART} service providers, and does not address issues concerning @value{PART} management,
protocol performance, and performance analysis tools.

This specification assumes that the reader is familiar with ITU-T state machines and @value{PART}
interfaces (e.g. Q.711, T1.112), and @cite{STREAMS}.

@section Related Documentation

@itemize ---
@item @strong{ITU-T Recommendation Q.711 (White Book)}
@item @strong{ETSI EN 300 009-1}
@item @strong{ANSI T1.112/2002}
@item @strong{System V Interface Definition, Issue 2 --- Volume 3}
@end itemize

@subsection Role

This document specifies an interface that supports the services provided by the @dfn{Signalling
System No. 7 (SS7)} for ITU-T, ANSI and ETSI applications as described in ITU-T Recommendation
Q.711, ANSI T1.112, ETSI EN 300 009-1.  These specifications are targeted for use by developers
and testers of protocol modules that require @value{PART} service.

@section Definitions, Acronyms, Abbreviations

@table @dfn
@item Originating SL User
A SL-User that initiates a Signalling Link.
@item Destination SL User
A SL-User with whom an originating SL user wishes to establish a Signalling Link.
@item ISO
International Organization for Standardization
@item SL User
Kernel level protocol or user level application that is accessing the services
of the Signalling Link sub-layer.
@item SL Provider
Signalling Link sub-layer entity/entities that provide/s the services of the
Signalling Link interface.
@item SLI
Signalling Link Interface
@item TIDU
Signalling Link Interface Data Unit
@item TSDU
Signalling Link Service Data Unit
@item OSI
Open Systems Interconnection
@item QOS
Quality of Service
@item STREAMS
A communication services development facility first available with UNIX System V Release 3.
@end table

@node The @value{SHORT} Layer
@chapter The @value{SHORT} Layer

@menu
* Model of the @value{INTERFACE}::
* @value{INTERFACE} Services::
* @value{SHORT} Service Primitives::
@end menu

The @value{SHORT} Layer provides the means to manage the NC of @value{SHORT}-Users into
connections.  It is responsible for the routing and management of data to and from SS7 network
connections between @value{SHORT}-user entities.

@node Model of the @value{INTERFACE}
@section Model of the @value{INTERFACE}

The @value{INTERFACE} defines the services provided by the signalling link layer to the signalling
link user at the boundary between the signalling link provider and the signalling link user entity.
The interface consists of a set of primitives defined as @cite{STREAMS} messages that provide access
to the signalling link layer services, and are transferred between the @value{SHORT} user entity and
the @value{SHORT} provider.  These primitives are of two types; ones that originate from the
@value{SHORT} user, and other that originate from the @value{SHORT} provider.  The primitives that
originate from the @value{SHORT} user make requests to the @value{SHORT} provider, or respond to an
indication of an event of the @value{SHORT} provider.  The primitives that originate from the
@value{SHORT} provider are either confirmations of a request or are indications to the CCS user that
an event has occurred.  @figref{1} shows the model of the @value{INTERFACE}.

@figuresized{sccpi01,1,Model of the @value{INTERFACE},4.0in}

The @value{INTERFACE} allows the @value{SHORT} provider to be configured with any @value{SHORT} user
(such as TCAP) that also conforms to the @value{INTERFACE}.  A network layer user
can also be a user program that conforms to the @value{INTERFACE} and accesses the @value{SHORT}
provider via @manref{putmsg(2s)} and @manref{getmsg(2s)} system calls.

@node @value{INTERFACE} Services
@section @value{INTERFACE} Services

The features of the @value{INTERFACE} are defined in terms of the services provided by the
@value{SHORT}, and the individual primitives that may flow between the @value{SHORT}-User and the
@value{SHORT}.

The services supported by the @value{INTERFACE} are based on two distinct modes of communication,
connectionless (CLNS) and connection oriented (CONS).  Within these modes, the @value{INTERFACE}
provides support for both sequenced and unsequenced message transfer.  Also, the @value{INTERFACE}
supports services for local mangement.

@subsection CLNS

The main features of the connectionless mode of communication are:

@enumerate
@item
it is datagram oriented;
@item
it provides transfer of data in self contained units;
@item
there is no logical relationship between these units of data.
@end enumerate

Connectionless mode communication has no separate phases.  Each unit of data is transmitted from
source to destination independently, appropriate addressing information is included with each unit
of data.  Although the units of data are transmitted independently from source to destination,
@value{SHORT} provides a high level of assurance of sequencing if sequenced service is requested.
When unsequenced service is requested, there are no guarantees of proper sequence.  Although
@value{SHORT} services are inherently unreliable, @value{SHORT} provide a high level of assurance
that messages are not lost.

The connectionless service of @value{SHORT} is suited to @value{SHORT} User protocols such as the
Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP).@footnote{@ref{Q.714,,Q.714}.}

@subsection CONS

The main features of the @value{SHORT} connection oriented mode of communication are:

@enumerate
@item
it is virtual circuit oriented;
@item
it provides transfer of data via a pre-established path.
@end enumerate

There are three phases to each instance of communication: Connection Establishment, Data Transfer;
and Connection Termination.  Units of data arrive at their destination in the same order as they
departed their source when the sequenced delivery service is requested and the data is protected
against duplication or loss of data within some specified quality of service.

The connection oriented service of @value{SHORT} is suited to @value{SHORT} User protocols such as
the Integrated Services Digital Network User Part (ISUP), [Q.764] Telephone User Part (TUP), [Q.724]
and Bearer Indexed Call Control (BICC).@footnote{ISUP consists of @dfn{signalling relations} between
two switches which also have digital facilities between them.  In general an ISUP @value{SHORT}-User
can communicate with many other @value{SHORT}-User peers, however, signalling between any given two
enpoints only concerns the digital facilities which exist between the two endpoints.  So, management
of ISUP switches is best performed on a pairing of endpoints (@dfn{signalling relations}).  Also,
the CONS mode of operation is provided in support of DPC list Routing Keys for M3UA. [RFC 4666]}

@subsection Local Management

The @value{INTERFACE} specifications also defines a set of local management functions that apply to
CONS and CLNS modes of communication.  These services have local significance only.

@subsection Provider Management

The @value{INTERFACE} specification also defines a set of provider management functions that apply
to the @value{SHORT} service provider.  These services have local and end-to-end significance.

@node @value{SHORT} Service Primitives
@section @value{SHORT} Service Primitives

@tabref{1}, @tabref{2}, @tabref{3} and @tabref{4} summarize the @value{INTERFACE} service primitives
by their state and service

@tabfig{sccpi_tab01,1,@value{INTERFACE} Service Primitives for Local Management}
@tabfig{sccpi_tab02,2,@value{INTERFACE} Service Primitives for Connectionless Mode Data Transfer}
@tabfig{sccpi_tab03,3,@value{INTERFACE} Service Primitives for Connection Mode Data Transfer}
@tabfig{sccpi_tab04,4,@value{INTERFACE} Service Primitives for @value{SHORT} Management}

@node @value{INTERFACE} Services Definition
@chapter @value{INTERFACE} Services Definition
@cindex @value{INTERFACE} Services Definition

@menu
* Local Management Services::
* Connectionless Services::
* Connection Oriented Services::
* @value{SHORT} Provider Management Services::
@end menu

This section describes the services of the @value{INTERFACE} primitives.  Time-sequence diagrams
that illustrate the sequence of primitives are included.@footnote{Conventions for the time-sequence
diagrams are defined in ITU-T X.210. [X.210]} The format of the primitives will be defined later in
this document.

@node Local Management Services
@section Local Management Services

The services defined in this section are outside the scope of international standards.  These
services apply to CONS and CLNS modes of communication.  They are invoked for the
initialization/de-initialization of a stream connected to the @value{SHORT}.  They are also used to
manage options supported by the @value{SHORT} and to report information on the supported parameter
values.

@subsection @value{LONG} Information Reporting Service

This service provides information on the options supported by the @value{SHORT} provider.

@table @strong
@item N_INFO_REQ:
@prindex N_INFO_REQ
This primitive requests that the @value{SHORT} return the values of all the supported protocol
parameters.  This request may be invoked during any phase.
@item N_INFO_ACK:
@prindex N_INFO_ACK
This primitive is in response to the @prim{N_INFO_REQ} primitive and returns the values of the
supported protocol parameters to the @value{SHORT}-User.
@end table


The sequence of primitives for @value{SHORT} information management is shown in @figref{2}.

@figuresized{sccpi02,2,@value{LONG} Information Reporting Service,4.0in}

@subsection @value{SHORT} User Bind Service


This service allows an @value{SHORT} address (@value{SHORT}-SAPI) to be associated with a Stream.

It allows the @value{SHORT}-User to negotiate the number of connect indications that can remain
unacknowledged for that @value{SHORT}-User (a connect indication is considered unacknowledged while
it is awaiting a corresponding connect response or release request from the @value{SHORT}-User).
This service also defines a mechanism that allows a Stream (bound to an @value{SHORT} address of the
@value{SHORT}-User) to be reserved to handle incoming connections only.  This Stream is referred to
as the listener Stream.

@table @strong
@item N_BIND_REQ:
@prindex N_BIND_REQ
This primitive requests that the @value{SHORT}-User be bound to a particular @value{SHORT} address
(@value{SHORT}-SAPI), and negotiate the number of allowable outstanding connect indications for that
address.
@item N_BIND_ACK:
@prindex N_BIND_ACK
This primitive is in response to the @prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive and indicates to the user that
the specified @value{SHORT}-User has been bound to an @value{SHORT} address.
@end table

The sequence of primitives is shown in @figref{4}.

@figuresized{sccpi03,4,@value{LONG} User Bind Service,4.0in}

@subsection @value{SHORT} User Unbind Service

This service allows the @value{SHORT}-User to be unbound from an @value{SHORT} address.

@table @strong
@item N_UNBIND_REQ:
@prindex N_UNBIND_REQ
This primitive requests that the @value{SHORT}-User be unbound from the @value{SHORT} address that
it had previously been bound to.
@end table


The sequence of primitives is shown in @figref{5}.

@figuresized{sccpi04,5,@value{LONG} User Unbind Service,4.0in}

@subsection Receipt Acknowledgement Service

@table @strong
@item N_OK_ACK:
@prindex N_OK_ACK
This primitive indicates to the @value{SHORT}-User that the previous @value{SHORT}-User originated
primitive was received successfully by the @value{SHORT}.
@end table


An example showing the sequence of primitives for successful receipt acknowledgement is depicted in
@figref{6}.

@figuresized{sccpi05,6,@value{LONG} Receipt Ackknowledgement Service,4.0in}

@subsection Options Management Service

This service allows the @value{SHORT}-User to manage options parameter values associated wtih the
@value{SHORT}.

@table @strong
@item N_OPTMGMT_REQ:
@prindex N_OPTMGMT_REQ
This primitive allows the @value{SHORT}-User to select default values for options parameters within
the range supported by the @value{SHORT}, and to indicate the default selection of receipt
confirmation.
@end table

@figref{7} shows the sequence of primitives for @value{SHORT} options management.

@figuresized{sccpi06,7,@value{LONG} Options Management Service,4.0in}

@subsection Error Acknowledgement Service

@table @strong
@item N_ERROR_ACK:
@prindex N_ERROR_ACK
This primitive indicates to the @value{SHORT}-User that a non-fatal error has occured in the last
@value{SHORT}-User originated request or response primitive (listed in @figref{8}), on the stream.
@end table

@figref{8} shows the sequence or primitives for the error management primitive.

@figuresized{sccpi07,8,@value{LONG} Error Acknowledgement Service,4.0in}

@node Connectionless Services
@section Connectionless Services

The CLNS allows for the transfer of @value{SHORT}-User data in one or both directions simultaneously
without establishing an NC between @value{SHORT}-User peers.  A set of primitives are
defined that carry user data and control information between the @value{SHORT}-User and
@value{SHORT} entities.  The primitives are modeled as requests initiated by the @value{SHORT}-User
and indications initiated by the @value{SHORT} provider.  Indications may be initiated by the
@value{SHORT} independently from requests by the @value{SHORT}-User.

The connectionless @value{SHORT} service consists of one phase.

@subsection Data Transfer

@subsubsection User Primitives for Data Transfer

@table @strong
@item N_UNITDATA_REQ:
@prindex N_UNITDATA_REQ
This primitive requests that the @value{SHORT} send the data unit to the specified destination with
the specified sequence control.
@end table

@subsubsection Provider Primitives for Data Transfer

@table @strong
@item N_UNITDATA_IND:
@prindex N_UNITDATA_IND
This primitive indicates to the @value{SHORT}-User that a data unit has been received from the
specified source address.
@end table


@figref{9} shows the sequence of primitives for the connectionless mode of data transfer.
@figuresized{sccpi44,9,@value{LONG} Data Transfer,4.0in}

@c @subsection Error Management
@c @subsubsection Provider Primitives for Error Management
@c 
@c @table @strong
@c @item MTP_PAUSE_IND:
@c @prindex MTP_PAUSE_IND
@c This primitive indicates to the @value{SHORT}-User that the specified destination address is no
@c longer accessible.
@c @item MTP_RESUME_IND:
@c @prindex MTP_RESUME_IND
@c This primitive indicates to the @value{SHORT}-User that the specified destination address is now
@c accessible.
@c @item MTP_STATUS_IND:
@c @prindex MTP_STATUS_IND
@c This primitive indicates ot the @value{SHORT}-User that the congestions status to the specified
@c destination address has changed, or that the remote @value{SHORT}-User is no longer available.
@c @end table
@c 
@c @figref{10} shows the sequence of primitives for the connectionless mode error management primitives.
@c 
@c @figuresized{mtpi31,10,@value{LONG} Error Management,4.0in}


@node Connection Oriented Services
@section Connection Oriented Services

This section describes the required @value{SHORT} service primitives that define the CLNS interface.

The queue model for CLNS is discused in more detail in ITU-T Q.711. [Q.711] For Q.711 specific
conformance considerations, see Addendum 1.

The queue model represents the operation of an @value{SHORT} connection in the abstract by a pair of
queues linking the two @value{SHORT} addresses.  There is one queue for each direction of signalling
transfer.  The ability of a user to add objects to a queue will be determined by the behavior of the
user removing objects from that queue, and the state of the queue.  The pair of queues is considered
to be available for each potential NC.  Objects that are entered or removed from the queue
are either as a result of interactions at the two @value{SHORT} addresses, or as the result of
@value{SHORT} initiatives.

@itemize @minus{}
@item
A queue is empty until a connect object has been entered and can be returned to this state, with
loss of its contents, by the @value{SHORT}.
@item
Objects may be entered into a queue as a result of the action of the source @value{SHORT}-User,
subject to control by the @value{SHORT}.
@item
Objects may also be entered into a queue by the @value{SHORT}.
@item
Objects are removed from the queue under the control of the receiving @value{SHORT} user.
@item
Objects are normally removed under the control of the @value{SHORT}-User in the same order as they
were entered except:
@item
if the object is of a type defined to be able to advance ahead of the preceding object (however, no
object is defined to be able to advance ahead of another object of the same type), or
@item
if the following object is defined to be destructive with respect to the preceding object on the
queue.  If necessary, the last object on the queue will be deleted to allow a destructive object to
be entered --- they will therefore always be added to the queue.  For example, "reset" objects are
defined to be destructive with respect to all other objects.
@end itemize

@tabref{5} shows the ordering relationship amoung the queue model objects.

@tabfig{sccpi_tab05,5,Flow Control Relationships Between Queue Model Objects}

@multitable @columnfractions 0.10 0.90
@item AA @tab Indicates that Object X is defined to be able to advance ahead of preceding Object Y.
@item DES @tab Indicates that Object X is defined to be destructive with respect to preceding Object Y.
@item @minus{} @tab Indicates that Object X is neither destructive with respect to Object Y, nor able to advance ahead of Object Y.
@item N/A @tab Indicates that Object X will not occur in a position succeeding Object Y in a valid state of a queue.
@end multitable

@subsection Connection Establishment Phase

A pair of queues is associated with an @value{SHORT} NC between two @value{SHORT} addresses
when the @value{SHORT} receives an @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitive at one of the @value{SHORT}
addresses resulting in a connect object being entered into the queue.  The queues will remain
associated with the @value{SHORT} NC until an @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive (resulting in
a disconnect object) is either entered or removed from a queue.  Similarly, in the queue from the
remote @value{SHORT}-User, objects can be entered into the queue only after the connect object
associated with an @prim{N_CONN_REQ} has been entered into the queue.

The @value{SHORT} NC procedure will fail if the @value{SHORT} is unable to route to the
remote @value{SHORT}-User.

@subsubsection User primitives for Successful @value{SHORT} Association Establishment

@table @strong
@item N_CONN_REQ:
@prindex N_CONN_REQ
This primitive requests that the @value{SHORT} establish an NC between the local
@value{SHORT}-User and the specified destination.
@end table

@subsubsection Provider primitives for Successful @value{SHORT} Association Establishment

@table @strong
@item N_CONN_CON:
@prindex N_CONN_CON
This primitive indicates to the @value{SHORT}-User that an NC request has been confirmed.
@end table


The sequence of primitives in a successful @value{SHORT} NC establishment is defined by the
time sequence diagram as shown in @figref{11}.

@figuresized{sccpi24,11,@value{LONG} Association Service,4.0in}

@subsection Data Transfer Phase

Flow control on the @value{SHORT} NC is done by management of queue capacity, by allowing
objects of certain type to be inserted to the queues as shown in @tabref{5}.

@subsubsection User primitives for @value{SHORT} Data Transfer

@table @strong
@item N_DATA_REQ:
@prindex N_DATA_REQ
This primitive requests that the @value{SHORT} transfer the specified data.
@end table

@subsubsection Provider primitives for @value{SHORT} Data Transfer

@table @strong
@item N_DATA_IND:
@prindex N_DATA_IND
This primitive indicates to the @value{SHORT}-User that this message contains data.
@end table

@figref{12} shows the sequence of primitives for successful data transfer.  The sequence of
primitives may remain incomplete if an @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive occurs.

@figuresized{sccpi44,12,@value{LONG} Data Transfer,4.0in}

This sequence of primtives may remain incomplete if an @prim{N_RESET_IND} or @prim{N_RESET_CON}
indication is received from the @value{SHORT}.

@subsection Error Management Primitives

The @value{SHORT} error management service is used by the @value{SHORT} to report detected loss of
unrecoverable data.

@subsubsection Provider Primitives for Management

@table @strong
@item N_INFORM_REQ:
@prindex N_INFORM_REQ
@item N_INFORM_IND:
@prindex N_INFORM_IND
@end table

@figref{13} shows the sequence of primitives for the connection mode error management primitives.
The sequence of primitives may remain incomplete if an @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} or
@prim{N_DISCON_IND} primitive occurs.

@figuresized{sccpi31,13,@value{LONG} Error Management,4.0in}

@subsection Connection Termination Phase

The @value{SHORT} NC release procedure is initialized by the insertion of a disconnect
object (associated with an @prim{N_DISCON_REQ}) into the queue.  As shown if @figref{13}, the
disconnect procedure is destructive with respect to other objects in the queue, and eventually
results in the emptying of queues and termination of the @value{SHORT} NC.

@subsubsection User Primitives for @value{SHORT} Association Termination

@table @strong
@item N_DISCON_REQ:
@prindex N_DISCON_REQ
This primitive requests that the @value{SHORT} disconnect an existing @value{SHORT} NC.
@end table

The sequence of primitives are shown in the time sequence diagram in @figref{14}.
@figuresized{sccpi08,14, @value{LONG} Connection Termination,4.0in}


@node @value{SHORT} Provider Management Services
@section @value{SHORT} Provider Management Services

This section describes the required @value{SHORT} service primitives that define the @value{SHORT}
Provider Management interface.

@value{SHORT} Provider Management allows for the coordination of @value{SHORT} management messages
between @value{SHORT} Provider peers.  A set of primitives are defined that invoke management
actions that are communicated from @value{SHORT} to @value{SHORT} entities.  The primitives are
modeled as requires initiated by the @value{SHORT} management and indications initiated by the
@value{SHORT}.  Indications may be initiated by the @value{SHORT} independently from requests by the
@value{SHORT} management.

The @value{SHORT} Provider Management service consists of one phase.

@subsection Subsystem Management

The @value{SHORT} subsystem management service allows @value{SHORT} management to allow or prohibit
a subsystem or a duplicated subsystem.

@subsubsection User Primitives for Subsystem Management Service

@table @strong
@item N_COORD_REQ:
@prindex N_COORD_REQ
@item N_COORD_RES:
@prindex N_COORD_RES
@end table

@subsubsection Provider Primitives for Subsystem Management Service

@table @strong
@item N_COORD_IND:
@prindex N_COORD_IND
@item N_COORD_CON:
@prindex N_COORD_CON
@end table

@node @value{INTERFACE} Primitives
@chapter @value{INTERFACE} Primitives
@cindex @value{INTERFACE} primitives

@menu
* Local Management Primitives::
* Connection Mode Primitives::
* Connectionless Mode Primitives::
* @value{SHORT} Provider Management Primitives::
@end menu

This section describes the format and parameters of the @value{INTERFACE} primitives (@ref{Mapping
SCCPI Primitives}, shows the mapping of @value{INTERFACE} primitives for the primitives
defined in Q.711 [Q.711] and T1.112 [T1.112]).

Also, it discusses the states the primitive is valid in, the resulting state, and the
acknowledgement that the primitive expects.  (The state/event tables for these primitives are shown
in @ref{State/Event Tables}.  The precedence tables for the @value{INTERFACE} primitives are shown
in @ref{Precedence Tables}.) Rules for ITU-T conformance [Q.711] are described in addendum to this
document in @ref{Addendum for SCCP Conformance}, rules for ANSI conformance [T1.112] are
described in addendum @ref{Addendum for SCCP Conformance}, and rules for JITC conformance
[JQ.711] are described in addendum @ref{Addendum for SCCP Conformance}.


@page

@node Local Management Primitives
@section Local Management Primitives

@menu
* @value{SHORT} Information Request::
* @value{SHORT} Information Acknowledgement::
* Bind Protocol Address Request::
* Bind Protocol Address Acknowledgement::
* Unbind Protocol Address Request::
* @value{SHORT} Options Management Request::
* Error Acknowledgement::
* Successful Receipt Acknowledgements::
@end menu

These primitives apply to CLNS and CONS.

@node @value{SHORT} Information Request
@subsection @value{SHORT} Information Request

@subsubheading N_INFO_REQ
@anchor{N_INFO_REQ}
@prindex N_INFO_REQ

This primitive requests the NS provider to return the values of all supported protocol parameters
(@pxref{N_INFO_ACK}), and also the current state of the NS provider (as defined in @ref{State/Event
Tables}).  This primitive does not affect the state of the network provider and does not appear in
the state tables.


@subsubheading Format
@tpindex N_info_req_t
This primitive consits of one @msg{M_PCPROTO} message block, structured as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_INFO_REQ */
} N_info_req_t;
@end verbatim
@end smallexample


@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Specifies the primitive type: always @prim{N_INFO_REQ}.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive in valid in any state where a local acknowledgement is not pending.

@subsubheading New State

The new state remains unchanged.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

This primitive requires the NS provider to generate one of the following acknowledgements upon
receipt of the primitive:

@itemize ---
@item @emph{Successful:}
Acknowledgement of the primitive via the @prim{N_INFO_ACK} primitive.
@item @emph{Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):}
There are no errors associated with the issuance of this primitive.
@end itemize

@page
@node N_INFO_ACK
@subsection Network Information Acknowledgement

@subsubheading N_INFO_ACK
@prindex N_INFO_ACK
This primitive indicates to the NS user any relevant protocol-dependent parameters.@footnote{In the
future, this primitive will be modified such that it will allow the @value{INTERFACE} to accept
either sub-network point of attachment addresses or network addresses.}  It should be initiated in
response to the @prim{N_INFO_REQ} primitive described above.

@subsubheading Format
@tpindex N_info_ack_t
This primitive consists of one @msg{M_PCPROTO} message block, structured as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_INFO_ACK */
        np_ulong NSDU_size;             /* maximum NSDU size */
        np_ulong ENSDU_size;            /* maximum ENSDU size */
        np_ulong CDATA_size;            /* connect data size */
        np_ulong DDATA_size;            /* discon data size */
        np_ulong ADDR_size;             /* address size */
        np_ulong ADDR_length;           /* address length */
        np_ulong ADDR_offset;           /* address offset */
        np_ulong QOS_length;            /* QOS values length */
        np_ulong QOS_offset;            /* QOS values offset */
        np_ulong QOS_range_length;      /* length of QOS values' range */
        np_ulong QOS_range_offset;      /* offset of QOS values' range */
        np_ulong OPTIONS_flags;         /* bit masking for options supported */
        np_ulong NIDU_size;             /* network i/f data unit size */
        np_long SERV_type;              /* service type */
        np_ulong CURRENT_state;         /* current state */
        np_ulong PROVIDER_type;         /* type of NS provider */
        np_ulong NODU_size;             /* optimal NSDU size */
        np_ulong PROTOID_length;        /* length of bound protocol ids */
        np_ulong PROTOID_offset;        /* offset of bound protocol ids */
        np_ulong NPI_version;           /* version # of npi that is supported */
} N_info_ack_t;

/* Flags to indicate support of NS provider options */
#define REC_CONF_OPT    0x00000001L
#define EX_DATA_OPT     0x00000002L
#define DEFAULT_RC_SEL  0x00000004L

/* Service types supported by the NS provider */
#define N_CONS 1
#define N_CLNS 2

/* Valid provider types */
#define N_SNICFP 1
#define N_SUBNET 2
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_info_ack_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

The above fields have the following meaning:

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Specifies the primitive type: always @prim{N_INFO_ACK}.
@item @parm{NSDU_size} @tab
Specifies the maximum size (in octets) of a @dfn{Network Service Data Unit (NSDU)} supported by the
NS provider.
@item @parm{ENSDU_size} @tab
Specifies the maximum size (in octets) of an @dfn{Expedited Network Service Data Unit (ENSDU)}
supported by the NS provider.
@item @parm{CDATA_size} @tab
Specifies the maximum number of octets of data that may be associated with connection establishment
primitives.
@item @parm{DDATA_size} @tab
Specifies the maximum number of octets of data that may be associated with the disconnect
primitives.
@item @parm{ADDR_size} @tab
Specifies the maximum size (in decimal digits) of a network address.
@item @parm{ADDR_length} @tab
Specifies the length in bytes of the network address bound on the Stream on which the
@prim{N_INFO_REQ} primitive was issued (a network address is bound to a Stream with the
@prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive).
@item @parm{ADDR_offset} @tab
Specifies the offset of the bound network address from the beginning of the @msg{M_PCPROTO} message
block (this field should be ignored if the @parm{ADDR_length} field is zero).
@item @parm{QOS_length} @tab
In the connection-mode environment, when this primitive is invoked before the NC is established on
the Stream, the values returned specify the default values supported by the NS provider.  When this
primitive is invoked after a NC has been established on the Stream, the values returned indicate the
negotiated values for the QOS parameters.  In the connection-less environment, these values
represent the default or the selected QOS parameter values.  In case a QOS parameter is not
supported by NS Provider, a value of @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN} will be returned.  In the case where no QOS
parameters are supported by the NS provider, this field will be zero.
@item @parm{QOS_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the QOS parameters from the beginning of the @msg{M_PCPROTO} message block.
@item @parm{QOS_range_length} @tab
Indicates the length in bytes, of the available range of QOS parameters values supported by the NS
provider.  These ranges are used by the NS user to select QOS parameter values that are valid with
the NS provider.  QOS parameter values are selected, or the default values altered via the
@prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} primitive.  In the connection-mode environment, the values for end-to-end QOS
parameters may be specified with the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} or @prim{N_CONN_RES} primitives for
negotiation.  If the NS provider does not support a certain QOS parameter, its value will be set to
@pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  In the case where no QOS parameters are supported by the NS provider, the
length of this field will be zero.
@item @parm{QOS_range_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the range of QOS parameter values from the beginning of the @msg{M_PCPROTO}
message block.
@item @parm{OPTIONS_flags} @tab
Defines flags that indicate whether the options described below are supported by the NS provider.
The possible options are receipt confirmation, expedited data and default selection for use of
receipt confirmation.
@item @parm{NIDU_size} @tab
This indicates the amount of user data that may be present in an @prim{N_DATA_REQ} or
@prim{N_DATA_IND} primitive.  The @parm{NIDU_size} should not be larger than the @parm{NSDU_size}
specification.
@item @parm{SERV_type} @tab
Indicates the service type supported by the NS provider.  The possible values can be @pval{N_CONS},
@pval{N_CLNS}, (or both as indicated by using @pval{N_CONS}|@pval{N_CLNS}).
@item @parm{CURRENT_state} @tab
Indicates the current state of the NS provider.
@item @parm{PROVIDER_type} @tab
Indicates the type of NS provider.  The possible values can be @pval{N_SNICFP} or @pval{N_SUBNET}.
The value @pval{N_SNICFP} indicates that the provider is the @dfn{Subnetwork Independent Convergence
Function/Protocol} sub-layer of the network layer.  The value @pval{N_SUBNET} indicates that the
provider is a subnetwork.
@item @parm{NODU_size} @tab
Indicates the optimal NSDU size (in octets) of an NSDU given the current routing information.
@item @parm{PROTOID_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the protocol identifiers that were bound using the @prim{N_BIND_REQ}.
@item @parm{PROTOID_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the protocol identifiers that were bound using the @prim{N_BIND_REQ}, from
the beginning of the @msg{M_PCPROTO} message block.
@item @parm{NPI_version} @tab
Indicates the current version of @value{INTERFACE} that is supported.
Always @pval{N_VERSION_2} for this specificaiton.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval
@item REC_CONF_OPT
When set, it indicates that the NS provider supports receipt confirmation.

@emph{This flag is used only in the connection-mode environment.}
Also, this flag is not applicable to @value{LONG}, because @value{SHORT} does not support receipt confirmation.
@item EX_DATA_OPT
When set, it indicates that the NS provider supports expedited data transfer.

@emph{This flag is used only in the connection-mode environment.}
@emph{Also, this flag is not applicable to any @value{LONG} protocol class except @dfn{Protocol Class 3}.}
@item DEFAULT_RC_SEL
When set, indicates that the default selection is for the use of receipt confirmation for every
@prim{N_DATA_REQ} primitive.  This flag is only applicable when use of receipt confirmation is
successfully negotiated via the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} or @prim{N_CONN_RES} primitives.
@emph{This flag is only used in the connection-mode environment.}
@emph{This flag is not applicable to @value{LONG}, because @value{SHORT} does not support receipt confirmation.}
@end table

@subsubheading Service Types

@table @pval
@item N_CONS
When set, indicates that the NS provider supports connection-mode network services.
@item N_CLNS
When set, indicates that the NS provider supports connection-less network services.
@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in any state in response to an @prim{N_INFO_REQ} primitive.

@subsubheading New State

The state remains unchanged.

@page
@node N_BIND_REQ
@subsection Bind Protocol Address Request
@subsubheading N_BIND_REQ
@prindex N_BIND_REQ
This primitive requests that the NS provider bind an NS user entity to a network address and
negotiate the number of connect indications allowed to be outstanding by the NS provider for the
specified NS user entity being bound.
@subsubheading Format
This primitive consists of one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, structured as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_BIND_REQ */
        np_ulong ADDR_length;           /* length of address */
        np_ulong ADDR_offset;           /* offset of address */
        np_ulong CONIND_number;         /* req # of conn-indications to be queued */
        np_ulong BIND_flags;            /* flags associated with N_BIND_REQ */
        np_ulong PROTOID_length;        /* length of the protocol id */
        np_ulong PROTOID_offset;        /* offset of protocol id */
} N_bind_req_t;

/* Flags associated with N_BIND_REQ */
#define DEFAULT_LISTENER    0x00000001L
#define TOKEN_REQUEST       0x00000002L
#define DEFAULT_DEST        0x00000004L
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_bind_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Specifies the primitive type: always @prim{N_BIND_REQ}.
@item @parm{ADDR_length} @tab
Specifies the length of the protocol address to bind.
@item @parm{ADDR_offset} @tab
Specifies the offset of the protocol address to bind from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} message
block.
@item @parm{CONIND_number} @tab
Specifies the requested maximum number of outstanding connection indications to be issued.

This is the requested number of connection indications allowed to be outstanding by the NS provider
for the specified protocol address.  (If the number of outstanding connect indications equals
@parm{CONIND_number}, the NS provider need not discard further incoming connect indications, but may
choose to queue them internally until the number of outstanding connect indications drops below the
@parm{CONIND_number}.)  Only one Stream per network address is allowed to have a
@parm{CONIND_number} value greater than zero.  This indicates to the network provider that this
Stream is the listener Stream for the NS user.  This Stream will be used by the NS provider for
connect indications for that network address.

If a Stream is bound as a listener Stream, it will not be able to initiate connect requests.  If the
NS user attempts to send an @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitive down this Stream, an @prim{N_ERROR_ACK}
primitive will be sent to the NS user by the NS provider with an error value of @perr{NACCESS}.

@emph{This field should be ignored in CLNS.}
@item @parm{BIND_flags} @tab
Specifies the bind option flags associated with the request.
@item @parm{PROTOID_length} @tab
Specifies the length of protocol identifiers to bind.
@item @parm{PROTOID_offset} @tab
Specifies the offset of protocol identifiers to bind from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} message
block.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval
@item DEFAULT_LISTENER
When set, this flag indicates that this Stream is the @dfn{Default Listener Stream}.  This Stream
is used to pass connect indications for all incoming calls that contain protocol identifiers that
are not bound to any other listener, or when a listener Stream with @parm{CONIND_number} value of
greater than zero is not found.  Also, the default listener will receive all incoming call
indications that contain no user data.

Only one @dfn{Default Listener Stream} is allowed per occurrence of NPI.  An attempt to bind a
@dfn{Default Listener Stream} when one is already bound should result in an error (of type
@perr{NBOUND}).

@emph{The @pval{DEFAULT_LISTENER} flag is ignored in CLNS.}
@item TOKEN_REQUEST
When set, this flag indicates to the NS provider that the NS user has requested that a @dfn{token}
be assigned to the Stream (to be used in the NC response message), and the @dfn{token value} be
returned to the NS user via the @prim{N_BIND_ACK} primitive.

The @dfn{token} assigned by the NS provider can then be used by the NS user in a subsequent
@prim{N_CONN_RES} primitive to identify the Stream on which the NC is to be established.

@emph{The @pval{TOKEN_REQUEST} flag is ignored in CLNS.}
@item DEFAULT_DEST
When set, this flag indicates that this Stream is the @dfn{Default Destination Stream}.  This Stream
will receive all packets destined for the NSAP specified in the bind request.  If no NSAP is
indicated in the bind request, then this Stream should receive all packets destined to an NSAP that
is bound to no other Stream.

Only one @dfn{Default Destination Stream} per NSAP is allowed per occurrence of NPI.  An attempt to
bind a @dfn{Default Destination Stream} to an NSAP when one is already bound should result in an
error of type @perr{NBOUND}.

@emph{The @pval{DEFAULT_DEST} flag is ignored in the CONS.}
@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_UNBND} (@pxref{State/Event Tables}).

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_WACK_BREQ}.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

The NS provider will generate one of the following acknowledgements upon receipt of the
@prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive:

@itemize ---
@item @emph{Successful:}
Correct acknowledgement of the primitive is indicated using the @prim{N_BIND_ACK} primitive.
@item @emph{Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):}
These errors will be indicated using the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.  The applicable non-fatal
errors are as follows:
@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @perr{NBADADDR} @tab
The network address was in an incorrect format or the address contained illegal information.  It is
not intended to indicate protocol errors.
@item @perr{NBOUND} @tab
The NS user attempted to bind a second Stream to a network address with the @parm{CONIND_number} set
to a non-zero value, or attempted to bind a second Stream with the @pval{DEFAULT_LISTENER} flag
value set to non-zero.
@item @perr{NNOADDR} @tab
The NS provider could not allocate an address.
@item @perr{NACCESS} @tab
The NS user did not have proper permissions for the use of the requested address.
@item @perr{NOUTSTATE} @tab
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
@item @perr{NSYSERR} @tab
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error
is indicated in the primitive.
@item @perr{NNOPROTOID} @tab
Protocol identifier could not be allocated.
@end multitable
@end itemize

@page
@node N_BIND_ACK
@subsection Bind Protocol Address Acknowledgement
@subsubheading N_BIND_ACK
@prindex N_BIND_ACK
This primitive indicates to the NS user that the specified network user entity has been bound to the
requested network address and that the specified number of connect indications are allowed to be
queued by the NS provider for the specified network address.
@subsubheading Format
This primitives consists of one @msg{M_PCPROTO} message block, structured as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    np_ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_BIND_ACK */
    np_ulong ADDR_length;      /* address length */
    np_ulong ADDR_offset;      /* offset of address */
    np_ulong CONIND_number;    /* connection indications */
    np_ulong TOKEN_value;      /* NC response token value */
    np_ulong PROTOID_length;   /* length of protocol id */
    np_ulong PROTOID_offset;   /* offset from beg. of block */
} N_bind_ack_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_bind_ack_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_BIND_ACK}.
@item @parm{ADDR_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the network address that was bound.
@item @parm{ADDR_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the network address that was bound, from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PCPROTO} message block.
@item @parm{CONIND_number} @tab
Indicates the accepted number of connection indications allowed to be outstanding by the NS provider
for the specified network address.  If its value is zero, this Stream cannot accept
@prim{N_CONN_IND} primitives.  If its value is greater than zero, then the NS user can accept
@prim{N_CONN_IND} primitives up to the value specified in this parameter before having to respond
with an @prim{N_CONN_RES} or an @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive.

@emph{This field should be ignored for CLNS.}
@item @parm{TOKEN_value} @tab
Indicates the value of the @dfn{token} assigned to this Stream that can be used by the NS user in a
@prim{N_CONN_RES} primitive to accept an NC on this Stream.  It is a non-zero value, and is unique
to all Streams bound to the NS provider.

@emph{This field should be ignored for CLNS.}
@item @parm{PROTOID_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the protocol identifiers that were bound.
@item @parm{PROTOID_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the protocol identifiers that were bound, from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PCPROTO} message block.
@end multitable

Note that the proper alignment of the address in the @msg{M_PCPROTO} message block is not
guaranteed.

@subsubheading Bind Rules:

The following rules apply to the binding of the specified network address to the
Stream:

@itemize ---
@item
If the @parm{ADDR_length} field in the @prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive is zero, then the NS provider is
to assign a network address to the user.
@item
The NS provider is to bind the network address as specified in the @prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive.  If
the NS provider cannot bind the specified address, it may assign another network address to the
user.  It is the network user's responsibility to check the network address returned in the
@prim{N_BIND_ACK} primitive to see if it is the same as the one requested.
@end itemize

The following rules apply to negotiating @parm{CONIND_number} argument:

@itemize ---
@item
The @parm{CONIND_number} in the @prim{N_BIND_ACK} primitive must be less than or equal to the
corresponding requested number as indicated in the @prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive.
@item
Only one Stream that is bound to the indicated network address may have a negotiated accepted number
of maximum connect requests greater than zero.  If a @prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive specifies a value
greater than zero, but another Stream has already bound itself to the given network address with a
value greater than zero, the NS provider should assign another protocol address to the user.
@item
If a Stream with @parm{CONIND_number} greater than zero is used to accept a connection, the Stream
will be found busy during the duration of that connection and no other Streams may be bound to that
network address with a @parm{CONIND_number} greater than zero.  This will prevent more than one
Stream bound to the identical network address from accepting connect indications.
@item
A Stream requesting a @parm{CONIND_number} of zero should always be legal.  This indicates to the NS
provider that the Stream is to be used to request connections only.
@item
A Stream with a negotiated @parm{CONIND_number} greater than zero may generate connect requests or
accept connect indications.
@end itemize

@emph{If the above rules result in an error condition, then the NS provider must issue an
@prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive to the NS user specifying the error as defined in the description of
the @prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive, @pxref{N_BIND_REQ}.}

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in response to an @prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive and is valid in the state
@psta{NS_WACK_BREQ} (@pxref{State/Event Tables}.)

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_IDLE}.

@page
@node N_UNBIND_REQ
@subsection Unbind Protocol Address Request
@subsubheading N_UNBIND_REQ
@prindex N_UNBIND_REQ
This primitive requests that the NS provider unbind the NS user entity that was previously bound to
the network address.
@subsubheading Format
This primitives consists of one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, structured as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_UNBIND_REQ */
} N_unbind_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_unbind_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Specifies the primitive type: always @prim{N_UNBIND_REQ}.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in the @psta{NS_IDLE} state.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_WACK_UREQ}.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

This primitive requires the NS provider to generate the following acknowledgements upon receipt of
the primitive:

@itemize ---
@item @emph{Successful:}
Correct acknowledgement of the primitive is indicated via the @prim{N_OK_ACK} primitive,
@pxref{N_OK_ACK}.
@item @emph{Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):}
These errors will be indicated via the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.  The applicable non-fatal
errors are as follows:
@multitable @columnfractions .2 .7
@item @perr{NOUTSTATE} @tab
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
@item @perr{NSYSERR} @tab
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error is indicated in the
primitive.
@end multitable
@end itemize

@page
@node @value{SHORT} Options Management Request
@subsection @value{SHORT} Options Management Request
@subsubheading N_OPTMGMT_REQ
@anchor{N_OPTMGMT_REQ}
@prindex N_OPTMGMT_REQ
This primitive allows the NS user to manage QOS parameter values associated with the Stream.
@subsubheading Format
These primitives consists of one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, structured as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    np_ulong PRIM_type;			/* always N_OPTMGMT_REQ */
    np_ulong QOS_length;		/* length of QOS parameter values */
    np_ulong QOS_offset;		/* offset of QOS parameter values */
    np_ulong OPTMGMT_flags;		/* options management flags */
} N_optmgmt_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_optmgmt_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Specifies the primitive type: always @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ}.
@item @parm{QOS_length} @tab
Specifies the length of the Quality of Service parameters.  Specifies the length of the default
values of the QOS parameters as selected by the NS user.  In the connection-mode environment these
values will be used in subsequent @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitives on the Stream that do not specify
values for these QOS parameters.  In the connection-less environment, these values represent the
selected QOS values that would apply to each unit data transmission.  If the NS user cannot
determine the value of a QOS parameter, its value should be set to @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  If the NS
user does not specify any QOS parameter values, the length of this field should be set to zero.
@item @parm{QOS_offset} @tab
Specifies the offset of the Quality of Service parameters, from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO}
message block.
@item @parm{OPTMGMT_flags} @tab
Specifies the options management flags associated with the request.  (See ``Flags'' below.)
@end multitable

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval
@item DEFAULT_RC_SEL
When set, it indicates to the NS provider that the NS user's default selection is for the use of
receipt confirmation with every @prim{N_DATA_REQ} message (applicable only when its use is
successfully negotiated via the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} or @prim{N_CONN_RES} primitives).  This default
indication is used only when the @msg{M_PROTO} message block is not present in the @prim{N_DATA_REQ}
(i.e. the primitive only contains @msg{M_DATA} message blocks).

@emph{This flag should be ignored in the connection-less environment.}
@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in the @psta{NS_IDLE} state.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_WACK_OPTREQ}.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

The @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} primitive requires the NS provider to generate one of the following
acknowledgements upon receipt of the primitive:

@itemize ---
@item @emph{Successful:}
Acknowledgement is via the @prim{N_OK_ACK} primitive.  At successful completion, the resulting state
is @psta{NS_IDLE}.
@item @emph{Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):}
These errors are indicated in the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.  The resulting state remains
unchanged.  The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as follows:
@multitable @columnfractions .2 .7
@item @perr{NOUTSTATE} @tab
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
@item @perr{NBADQOSPARAM} @tab
The QOS parameter values specified are outside the range supported by the NS provider.
@item @perr{NBADQOSTYPE} @tab
The QOS structure type is not supported by the NS provider.
@item @perr{NSYSERR} @tab
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error is indicated in the
primitive.
@end multitable
@end itemize

@page
@node N_ERROR_ACK
@subsection Error Acknowledgement
@subsubheading N_ERROR_ACK
@prindex N_ERROR_ACK
This primitive indicates to the NS user that a non-fatal error has occurred in the last
network-user-originated primitive.  This may only be initiated as an acknowledgement for those
primitives that require one.  It also indicates to the user that no action was taken on the
primitive that caused the error.
@subsubheading Format
This primitives consists of one @msg{M_PCPROTO} message block, structured as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_ERROR_ACK */
        np_ulong ERROR_prim;            /* primitive in error */
        np_ulong NPI_error;             /* NPI error code */
        np_ulong UNIX_error;            /* UNIX error code */
} N_error_ack_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_error_ack_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_ERROR_ACK}.
@item @parm{ERROR_prim} @tab
Indicates the primitive type that caused the error.
@item @parm{NPI_error} @tab
Indicates the Network Provider Interface error code.
@item @parm{UNIX_error} @tab
Indicates the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error code.  This may only be non-zero when the
@parm{NPI_error} is equal to @perr{NSYSERR}.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Error Primitives

@emph{One of the following error primitive types are allowed to be returned in the @parm{ERROR_prim}
field:}

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @prim{N_BIND_REQ} @tab
Bind Request.
@item @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} @tab
Options Management Request.
@item @prim{N_CONN_REQ} @tab
Connect Request.
@item @prim{N_CONN_RES} @tab
Connect Response.
@item @prim{N_RESET_REQ} @tab
Reset Request.
@item @prim{N_RESET_RES} @tab
Reset Response.
@item @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} @tab
Disconnect Request.
@item @prim{N_UNBIND_REQ} @tab
Unbind Request.
@item @prim{N_INFORM_REQ} @tab
Inform Request.
@item @prim{N_STATE_REQ} @tab
State Request (SCCPI only).
@item @prim{N_COORD_REQ} @tab
Coordination Request (SCCPI only).
@item @prim{N_COORD_RES} @tab
Coordination Response (SCCPI only).
@end multitable

@emph{Also, any unrecognized primitive type may also be returned in conjunction with the
@perr{NNOTSUPPORT} error code.}

@subsubheading Valid Error Codes

@emph{The following error codes are allowed to be returned in the @parm{NPI_error} field:}

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @perr{NBADADDR} @tab
The network address as specified in the primitive was in an incorrect format, or the address
contained illegal information.
@item @perr{NBADOPT} @tab
The options values as specified in the primitive were in an incorrect format, or they contained
illegal information.
@item @perr{NBADQOSPARAM} @tab
The QOS values specified are outside the range supported by the NS provider.
@item @perr{NBADQOSTYPE} @tab
The QOS structure type is not supported by the NS provider.
@item @perr{NBADTOKEN} @tab
Token used is not associated with an open Stream.
@item @perr{NNOADDR} @tab
The NS provider could not allocate an address.
@item @perr{NACCESS} @tab
The user did not have proper permissions.
@item @perr{NOUTSTATE} @tab
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
@item @perr{NBADSEQ} @tab
The sequence number specified in the primitive was incorrect or illegal.
@item @perr{NBADFLAG} @tab
The flags specified in the primitive were incorrect or illegal.
@item @perr{NBADDATA} @tab
The amount of user data specified was outside the range supported by the NS provider.
@item @perr{NSYSERR} @tab
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error is indicated in the
primitive.
@item @perr{NNOTSUPPORT} @tab
Specified primitive type is not known to the NS provider.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in all states that have a pending acknowledgement or
confirmation.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is the same as the one from which the acknowledged request or
response was issued.

@page
@node N_OK_ACK
@subsection Successful Receipt Acknowledgement
@subsubheading N_OK_ACK
@prindex N_OK_ACK
This primitive indicates to the NS user that the previous network-user-originated primitive was
received successfully by the network provider.  It does not indicate to the NS user any network
protocol action taken due to the issuance of the last primitive.  The @prim{N_OK_ACK} primitive may
only be initiated as an acknowledgement for those user originated primitives that have no other
means of confirmation.
@subsubheading Format
This primitives consists of one @msg{M_PCPROTO} message block, structured as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_OK_ACK */
        np_ulong CORRECT_prim;          /* primitive being acknowledged */
} N_ok_ack_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_ok_ack_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_OK_ACK}.
@item @parm{CORRECT_prim} @tab
Indicates the successfully received primitive type.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Correct Primitives

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} @tab
Options Management Request.
@item @prim{N_CONN_RES} @tab
Connection Response.
@item @prim{N_RESET_RES} @tab
Reset Response.
@item @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} @tab
Disconnect Request.
@item @prim{N_UNBIND_REQ} @tab
Unbind Request.
@item @prim{N_COORD_RES} @tab
Coordination Response (SCCPI only).
@item @prim{N_INFORM_REQ} @tab
Inform Request (SCCPI only).
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is issued in the following states:

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @psta{NS_WACK_UREQ} @tab
Wait for acknowledgement of Unbind Request.
@item @psta{NS_WACK_OPTREQ} @tab
Wait for acknowledgement of Options Management Request.
@item @psta{NS_WACK_RRES} @tab
Wait for acknowledgement of Reset Response.
@item @psta{NS_WACK_CRES} @tab
Wait for acknowledgement of Connection Response.
@item @psta{NS_WACK_DREQ6} @tab
Wait for acknowledgement of Disconnect Request.
@item @psta{NS_WACK_DREQ7} @tab
Wait for acknowledgement of Disconnect Request.
@item @psta{NS_WACK_DREQ9} @tab
Wait for acknowledgement of Disconnect Request.
@item @psta{NS_WACK_DREQ10} @tab
Wait for acknowledgement of Disconnect Request.
@item @psta{NS_WACK_DREQ11} @tab
Wait for acknowledgement of Disconnect Request.
@end multitable

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state depends on the current state (see @tabref{B-7}, and @tabref{B-8}).

@page
@node Connection Mode Primitives
@section Connection Mode Primitives

@menu
* Connection Establishment Phase::
* Normal Data Transfer Phase::
* Receipt Confirmation Service Primitives::
* Expedited Data Transfer Service::
* Reset Service::
* Inform Service::
* Network Connection Release Phase::
@end menu

This section describes the format of the CONS primitives and the rules associated with these
primitives.  The default values of the QOS parameters associated with an NC may be selected via the
@prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} primitive.

@node Connection Establishment Phase
@subsection Connection Establishment Phase

@menu
* N_CONN_REQ::
* N_CONN_IND::
* N_CONN_RES::
* N_CONN_CON::
@end menu

The following @value{SHORT} service primitives pertain to the establishment of an NC
between local and remote @value{SHORT}-SAPs, provided the @value{SHORT} users exist, and are known
to the @value{SHORT}.

@node N_CONN_REQ
@subsubsection @value{LONG} Connection Request
@subsubheading N_CONN_REQ
@prindex N_CONN_REQ
This primitive requests that the @value{SHORT} form an NC to the specified destination.
@subsubheading Format
The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block followed by one or more @msg{M_DATA}
message blocks for the NS user data transfer.  The specification of the NS user data is optional.
The NS user can send any integral number of octets of data within the range supported by the NS
provider (@pxref{N_INFO_ACK}).  If the user does not specify QOS parameter values, the default
values (specified via @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ}) are used by the NS provider.

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block is as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_CONN_REQ */
        np_ulong DEST_length;           /* destination address length */
        np_ulong DEST_offset;           /* destination address offset */
        np_ulong CONN_flags;            /* bit masking for options flags */
        np_ulong QOS_length;            /* length of QOS parameter values */
        np_ulong QOS_offset;            /* offset of QOS parameter values */
} N_conn_req_t;

/* Flags to indicate if options are requested */
#define REC_CONF_OPT    0x00000001L
#define EX_DATA_OPT     0x00000002L
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_conn_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Specifies the primitive type: always @prim{N_CONN_REQ}.
@item @parm{DEST_length} @tab
Specifies the length of the destination address to which to connect.  Identifies the NS user to
which the NC is to be established.  This field will accommodate variable length addresses within a
range supported by the NS provider.
@item @parm{DEST_offset} @tab
Specifies the offset of the destination address to which to connect, from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.
@item @parm{CONN_flags} @tab
Specifies the connection options flags.  (See ``Flags'' below.)
@item @parm{QOS_length} @tab
Specifies the length of the Quality of Service parameters negotiated.  Indicates the QOS parameter
values that apply to the NC being requested.  If the NS user cannot determine the value of a QOS
parameter, its value should be set to @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  If the NS user does not specify any QOS
parameter values, the length of this field should be set to zero (@samp{0}).
@item @parm{QOS_offset} @tab
Specifies the offset of the Quality of Service parameters negotiated, from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval
@item REC_CONF_OPT
The receipt confirmation selection parameter indicates the use/availability of the receipt
confirmation service on the NC.  The receipt confirmation service must be supported by the NS
provider to be used on the NC.
@item EX_DATA_OPT
Specifies the use of the expedited data transfer service on the NC.  The expedited data transfer
service must be provided by the NS provider for it to be used on the NC.
@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_IDLE}.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_WCON_CREQ}.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

The following acknowledgements are valid for this primitive:

@itemize ---
@item @emph{Successful NC Establishment:}
This is indicated using the @prim{N_CONN_CON} primitive.  This results in the @psta{NS_DATA_XFER}
state.
@item @emph{Unsuccessful NC Establishment:}
This is indicated using the @prim{N_DISCON_IND} primitive.  For example, a connection may be
rejected because either the called NS user cannot be reached, or the NS provider and/or the called
NS user did not agree with the specified QOS.  This results in the @psta{NS_IDLE} state.
@item @emph{Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):}
These are indicated using the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.  The applicable non-fatal errors are
defined as follows:
@multitable @columnfractions .2 .7
@item @perr{NACCESS} @tab
The user did not have proper permission for the user of the requested address or options.
@item @perr{NBADQOSPARAM} @tab
The QOS parameter values specified are outside the range supported by the NS provider.
@item @perr{NBADQOSTYPE} @tab
The QOS structure type is not supported by the NS provider.
@item @perr{NBADADDR} @tab
The network address was in an incorrect format or contained illegal information.  It is not intended
to indicate NC errors, such as an unreachable destination.  These error types are included using the
@prim{N_DISCON_IND} primitive.
@item @perr{NBADOPT} @tab
The options were in an incorrect format, or they contain illegal information.
@item @perr{NOUTSTATE} @tab
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
@item @perr{NBADDATA} @tab
The amount of user data specified was outside the range supported by the NS provider.
@item @perr{NSYSERR} @tab
A system error occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error is indicated in the
primitive.
@end multitable
@end itemize

@page
@node N_CONN_IND
@subsubsection @value{LONG} Connection Indication
@subsubheading N_CONN_IND
@prindex N_CONN_IND
This primitive indicates to the destination NS user that a network connect request has been made by
the user at the specified source address.
@subsubheading Format
The format of this message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block followed by one or more @msg{M_DATA}
message blocks for NS user data.  The specification of NS user data is optional.  The NS user can
send any integral number of octets of data within the range supported by the NS provider.  The NS
user data will only be present if the corresponding @prim{N_CONN_RES} had an NS user data parameter
specified, and their data will be identical.

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block is as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_CONN_IND */
        np_ulong DEST_length;           /* destination address length */
        np_ulong DEST_offset;           /* destination address offset */
        np_ulong SRC_length;            /* source address length */
        np_ulong SRC_offset;            /* source address offset */
        np_ulong SEQ_number;            /* sequence number */
        np_ulong CONN_flags;            /* bit masking for options flags */
        np_ulong QOS_length;            /* length of QOS parameter values */
        np_ulong QOS_offset;            /* offset of QOS parameter values */
} N_conn_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_conn_ind_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_CONN_IND}.
@item @parm{DEST_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the destination address.  This is the an address identifying the NS user to
which the NC is to be established.
@item @parm{DEST_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the destination address, from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} message
block.
@item @parm{SRC_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the source address.  The source address is the network address of the NS
user from which the NC has been requested.  The semantics of the value in the @prim{N_CONN_IND}
primitive is identical to the value associated with the Stream on which the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} was
issued.
@item @parm{SRC_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the source address from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block.
@item @parm{SEQ_number} @tab
Indicates the sequence number that can be used by the NS user to associate this message with the
@prim{N_CONN_RES} or @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive that is to follow.  This value must be unique
among the outstanding @prim{N_CONN_IND} messages.  The use of this field allows the NS user to issue
the @prim{N_CONN_RES} or the @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} messages in any order.
@item @parm{CONN_flags} @tab
Indicates the connection options flags associated with the indication.
@item @parm{QOS_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the Quality of Service parameters.  This is the QOS values that are
negotiated during NC establishment.  If the destination NS user does not agree to the range of QOS
values specified by the source NS user in the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitive, it will reject the NC
establishment by invoking a @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive (the originator parameter in the
@prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive will indicate NS user initiated release).  If the NS user does not
support or cannot determine the value of a QOS parameter, its value will be set to
@pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  If the NS user does not specify any QOS parameter values, the length of this
field should be set to zero.
@item @parm{QOS_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the Quality of Service parameters, from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO}
message block.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval
@item REC_CONF_OPT
The receipt confirmation selection parameter indicates the use/availability of the receipt
confirmation service on the NC.  The receipt confirmation service must be provided in the network
service to be used on the NC.
@item EX_DATA_OPT
The expedited data selection parameter indicates the use/availability of the expedited data transfer
service on the NC.  The expedited data transfer service must be provided by the NS provider for it
to be used on the NC.
@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in the states @psta{NS_IDLE} and @psta{NS_WRES_CIND}.

@subsubheading New State

In both cases the resulting state is @psta{NS_WRES_CIND} (the number of connect indications waiting
for user response is incremented by one).

@page
@node N_CONN_RES
@subsubsection @value{LONG} Connection Response
@subsubheading N_CONN_RES
@prindex N_CONN_RES
This primitive allows the destination NS user to request that the network provider accept a previous
connect request.
@subsubheading Format
The format of this primitive is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block followed by one or more @msg{M_DATA}
message blocks (for NS user data).  The specification of the NS user data is optional.

The NS user can send any integral number of octets of data within the range supported by the NS
provider.

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} block is as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_CONN_RES */
        np_ulong TOKEN_value;           /* NC response token value */
        np_ulong RES_length;            /* responding address length */
        np_ulong RES_offset;            /* responding address offset */
        np_ulong SEQ_number;            /* sequence number */
        np_ulong CONN_flags;            /* bit masking for options flags */
        np_ulong QOS_length;            /* length of QOS parameter values */
        np_ulong QOS_offset;            /* offset of QOS parameter values */
} N_conn_res_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_conn_res_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Specifies the primitive type: always @prim{N_CONN_RES}.
@item @parm{TOKEN_value} @tab
Specifies the response token value of the Stream upon which the connection is to be accepted, or
zero, if the connection is to be accepted on the issuing Stream.  This value is used to identify the
Stream that the NS user want to establish the NC on.  (Its value is determined by the NS user by
issuing a @prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive with the @pval{TOKEN_REQUEST} flag set.  The token value is
returned in the @prim{N_BIND_ACK}).  The value of this field should be non-zero when the NS user
wants to establish the NC on a Stream other than the Stream on which the @prim{N_CONN_IND} arrived.
If the NS user wants to establish a NC on the same Stream that the @prim{N_CONN_IND} arrived on,
then the value of this field should be zero (@samp{0}).
@item @parm{RES_length} @tab
Specifies the length of the responding address.  This field conveys the network address of the NS
user to which the NC has been established.  Under certain circumstances, such as call redirection,
generic addressing, etc., the value of this parameter may be different from the destination address
parameter specified in the corresponding @prim{N_CONN_REQ}.
@item @parm{RES_offset} @tab
Specifies the offset of the responding address from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} message
block.
@item @parm{SEQ_number} @tab
Specifies the sequence number of the corresponding connection indication to which this primitive is
responding.  This is the sequence number of the @prim{N_CONN_RES} primitive.  It is used by the NS
provider to associate the @prim{N_CONN_RES} message with an outstanding @prim{N_CONN_IND} message.
An invalid sequence number should result in an @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive with the error type
@perr{NBADSEQ}.
@item @parm{CONN_flags} @tab
Specifies the connection options flags associated with the connection response.  (See ``Flags''
below.)
@item @parm{QOS_length} @tab
Specifies the length of the Quality of Service parameters.  This is the QOS parameter values that
are negotiated during NC establishment by invoking a @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive (the originator
parameter in the @parm{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive will indicate NS user invoked release).  If the NS
user cannot determine the value of a QOS parameter, its value should be set to @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.
If the NS user does not specify any QOS parameter values, the length of this field should be set to
zero (@samp{0}).
@item @parm{QOS_offset} @tab
Specifies the offset of the Quality of Service parameters from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO}
message block.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval
@item REC_CONF_OPT
The receipt confirmation selection parameter indicates the use/availability of the receipt
confirmation service on the NC.  The receipt confirmation service must be provided in the network
service to be used on the NC.
@emph{SCCP does not provide receipt confirmation so this flag will not be indicated and will be
ignored when specified.  Alternately, when specified the NS provider
may retun an @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive with error type @perr{NBADOPT}.}
@item EX_DATA_OPT
The expedited data selection parameter indicates the use/availability of the expedited data transfer
service on the NC.  The expedited data transfer service must be provided by the NS provider for it
to be used on the NC.
@emph{SCCP only provides for expedited data on Protocol Class 3 connections.  This flag will only be
indicated and can only be accepted when Protocol Class 3 operation is supported.}
@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_WRES_CIND}.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_WACK_CRES}.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

The NS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgements upon receipt of this
primitive:

@itemize ---
@item @emph{Successful:}
Successful completion is indicated via the @prim{N_OK_ACK} primitive.  The final state will be
@psta{NS_DATA_XFER} for the accepting Stream and @psta{NS_IDLE} or @psta{NS_WRES_CIND} for the
listening Stream when the listening Stream is different than the accepting Stream and depending upon
whether there are additional outstanding connection indications.
@item @emph{Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):}
Errors are indicated with the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.  The applicable non-fatal errors are
defined as follows:
@multitable @columnfractions .2 .7
@item @perr{NBADOPT} @tab
The options were in an incorrect format, or they contained illegal information.
@item @perr{NBADQOSPARAM} @tab
The QOS parameter values specified are outside the range supported by the NS provider.
@item @perr{NBADQOSTYPE} @tab
The QOS structure type is not supported by the NS provider.
@item @perr{NBADTOKEN} @tab
The token specified is not associated with an open Stream.
@item @perr{NACCESS} @tab
The user did not have proper permissions for the use of the options or the token or response
identifier.
@item @perr{NOUTSTATE} @tab
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
@item @perr{NBADDATA} @tab
The amount of user data specified was outside the range supported by the NS provider.
@item @perr{NBADSEQ} @tab
The sequence number specified in the primitive was incorrect or illegal.
@item @perr{NSYSERR} @tab
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error is indicated in the
primitive.
@end multitable
@end itemize

@page
@node N_CONN_CON
@subsubsection @value{LONG} Connection Confirmation
@subsubheading N_CONN_CON
@prindex N_CONN_CON
This primitive indicates to the source NS user that the network connect request has been confirmed
on the specified responding address.
@subsubheading Format
The format of the @prim{N_CONN_CON} primitive is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block followed by one or
more @msg{M_DATA} message blocks (for NS user data).  The specification of the NS user data is optional.

The NS user can send any integral number of octets of NS user data within a range supported by the
NS provider (@pxref{N_INFO_ACK}).  The NS user data will only be present if the corresponding
@prim{N_CONN_RES} had NS user data specified with it, and their data will always be identical.

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block is as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_CONN_CON */
        np_ulong RES_length;            /* responding address length */
        np_ulong RES_offset;            /* responding address offset */
        np_ulong CONN_flags;            /* bit masking for options flags */
        np_ulong QOS_length;            /* length of QOS parameter values */
        np_ulong QOS_offset;            /* offset of QOS parameter values */
} N_conn_con_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_conn_con_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_CONN_CON}.
@item @parm{RES_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the responding address.  This field conveys the network address of the NS
user entity to which the NC has been established.  The semantics of the values in the
@prim{N_CONN_CON} is identical to the values in @prim{N_CONN_RES}.  Under certain circumstances,
such as call redirection, generic addressing, etc., the value of this parameter may be different
from the destination address parameter specification in the corresponding @prim{N_CONN_REQ}.
@item @parm{RES_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the responding address from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} message
block.
@item @parm{CONN_flags} @tab
Indicates the connect options flags associated with the connect confirmation.  (See ``Flags''
below.)
@item @parm{QOS_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the Quality of Service parameters.  This field conveys the QOS parameter
values selected by the responding NS user.  If the NS provider does not support or cannot determine
the selected value of the QOS parameter, its value will be set to @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  If the NS
provider does not specify any QOS parameter values, the length of this field should be set to zero
(@samp{0}).
@item @parm{QOS_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the Quality of Service parameters from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval
@item REC_CONF_OPT
The receipt confirmation selection parameter indicates the use/availability of the receipt
confirmation service on the NC.  The receipt confirmation service must be provided in the network
service to be used on the NC.
@item EX_DATA_OPT
The expedited data selection parameter indicates the use/availability of the expedited data transfer
service on the NC.  The expedited data transfer service must be provided by the NS provider for it
to be used on the NC.
@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_WCON_CREQ}.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_DATA_XFER}.

@page
@node Normal Data Transfer Phase
@subsection Normal Data Transfer Phase

@menu
* N_DATA_REQ::
* N_DATA_IND::
@end menu

The data transfer service primitives provide for an exchange of NS user data known as NSDUs, in
either direction or in both directions simultaneously on an NC.  The network service preserves both
the sequence and the boundaries of the NSDUs (when the NS provider supports NSDUs).

@node N_DATA_REQ
@subsubsection Normal Data Transfer Request
@subsubheading N_DATA_REQ
@prindex N_DATA_REQ
This user-originated primitive specifies to the NS provider that this message contains NS user data.
It allows the transfer of NS user data between NS users without modification by the NS provider.
The NS user must send any integral number of octets of data greater than zero.  In a case where the
size of the NSDU exceeds the NIDU (as specified by the size of the @parm{NIDU_size} parameter of the
@prim{N_INFO_ACK} primitive), the NSDU may be broken up into more than one NIDU.  When an NSDU is
broken up into more than one NIDU, the @pval{N_MORE_DATA_FLAG} will be set on each NIDU except the
last one.  The @pval{N_RC_FLAG} may only be set on the last NIDU.
@subsubheading Format
The format of the message is one or more @msg{M_DATA} message blocks.  Use of a @msg{M_PROTO}
message block is optional.  The @msg{M_PROTO} message block is used for two reasons:

@enumerate
@item to indicate that the NSDU is broken into more than one NIDUs, and that the data carried in the
following @msg{M_DATA} message block constitutes one NIDU;
@item to indicate whether receipt confirmation is desired for the NSDU.
@end enumerate

@b{Guidelines for use of @msg{M_PROTO}:}

The following guidelines must be followed with respect to the use of the @msg{M_PROTO} message
block:

@enumerate
@item The @msg{M_PROTO} message block need not be present when the NSDU size is less than or equal
to the NIDU size and one of the following is true:
@itemize ---
@item receipt confirmation has been negotiated for non-user (with the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} and
@prim{N_CONN_RES} primitives); or
@item receipt confirmation has been successfully negotiated for use or non-use and the default
selection as specified with the @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} primitive is to be used.
@end itemize
@item The @msg{M_PROTO} message block must be present when:
@itemize ---
@item the NSDU size is greater than the NIDU size;
@item receipt confirmation has been successfully negotiated for use and the default selection as
specified with the @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} primitive needs to be overridden.
@end itemize
@end enumerate

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block, if present, is as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_DATA_REQ */
        np_ulong DATA_xfer_flags;       /* data transfer flags */
} N_data_req_t;

/* Data Transfer Flags */
#define N_MORE_DATA_FLAG    0x00000001L
#define N_RC_FLAG           0x00000002L
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_data_req_t
@end smallexample
@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Specifies the primitive type: always @prim{N_DATA_REQ}.
@item @parm{DATA_xfer_flags} @tab
Specifies the data transfer flags associated with the data.  (See ``Flags'' below.)
@end multitable

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval
@item N_MORE_DATA_FLAG
When set, this flag indicates that the next @prim{N_DATA_REQ} primitive (NISDU) is also part of this
NSDU.
@item N_RC_FLAG
By setting this flag on the @prim{N_DATA_REQ}, the originating NS user can request confirmation of
receipt of the @prim{N_DATA_REQ} primitive.  The receipt is provided by the @prim{N_DATACK_IND}
primitive.  The parameter may only be present if use of Receipt Confirmation was agreed by both NS
users and the NS provider during NC establishment.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in the @psta{NS_DATA_XFER} state.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains the same (@psta{NS_DATA_XFER}).

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

This primitive does not require any acknowledgements, although it may generate a fatal error.  This
is indicated to the NS user with a @msg{M_ERROR} @cite{STREAMS} message type (specifying an error
number value of @errno{EPROTO}) that results in the failure of all system calls on that Stream.  The
applicable errors are defined as follows:

@table @errno
@item EPROTO
This indicates one of the following unrecoverable protocol conditions:
@itemize ---
@item The network interface was found to be in an incorrect state.
@item The amount of NS user data associated with the primitive is outside the range supported by the
NS provider (as specified by the @parm{NIDU_size} parameter of the @prim{N_INFO_ACK} primitive).
@item The options requested are either not supported by the NS provider or its use not specified
with the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitive.
@item The @msg{M_PROTO} message block was not followed by one or more @msg{M_DATA} message blocks.
@item The amount of NS user data associated with the current NSDU is outside the range supported by
the NS provider (as specified by the @parm{NSDU_size} parameter in the @prim{N_INFO_ACK} primitive.)
@item The @pval{N_RC_FLAG} and @pval{N_MORE_DATA_FLAG} were both set in the primitive, or the flags
field contained an unknown value.
@end itemize
@end table

@emph{NOTE:}  If the interface is in the @psta{NS_IDLE} or @psta{NS_WRES_RIND} states when the
provider receives the @prim{N_DATA_REQ} primitive, then the NS provider should discard the request
without generating a fatal error.

@page
@node N_DATA_IND
@subsubsection Normal Data Transfer Indication

@subsubheading N_DATA_IND
@prindex N_DATA_IND
This network-provider-originated primitive indicates to the NS user that this message contains NS
user data.  As in the @prim{N_DATA_REQ} primitive, the NSDU can be segmented into more than one
NIDUs.  The NIDUs are associated with the NSDU by using the @pval{N_MORE_DATA_FLAG}.  The
@pval{N_RC_FLAG} is allowed to be set only on the last NIDU.
@subsubheading Format
The format of the message is one or more @msg{M_DATA} message blocks.  The value of the NS user data
field is always the same as that supplied in the corresponding @prim{N_DATA_REQ} primitive at the
peer service access point.  Use of @msg{M_PROTO} message blocks is optional (see guidelines under
@pxref{N_DATA_REQ}).

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block, if present, is as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_DATA_IND */
        np_ulong DATA_xfer_flags;       /* data transfer flags */
} N_data_ind_t;

/* Data Transfer Flags */
#define N_MORE_DATA_FLAG    0x00000001L
#define N_RC_FLAG           0x00000002L
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_DATA_IND}.
@item @parm{DATA_xfer_flags} @tab
Indicates the data transfer flags associated with the data.  (See ``Flags'' below.)
@end multitable

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval
@item N_MORE_DATA_FLAG
When set, indicates that the next @prim{N_DATA_IND} message (NIDU) is part of this NSDU.
@item N_RC_FLAG
The value of the parameter may indicate either that confirmation is requested or that it is not
requested.  The parameter is allowed to be set only if use of Receipt Confirmation was agreed to
between both the NS users and the NS provider during NC establishment.  The value of this parameter
is always identical to that supplied in the corresponding @prim{N_DATA_REQ} primitive.
@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_DATA_XFER}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains the same (@psta{NS_DATA_XFER}).

@page
@node Receipt Confirmation Service Primitives
@subsection Receipt Confirmation Service Primitives

@menu
* N_DATACK_REQ::
* N_DATACK_IND::
@end menu

The receipt confirmation service is requested by the confirmation request parameter on the
@prim{N_DATA_REQ} primitive.  For each and every NSDU with the confirmation request parameter set,
the receiving NS user should return an @prim{N_DATACK_REQ} primitive.  Such acknowledgements should
be issued in the same sequence as the corresponding @prim{N_DATA_IND} primitives are received, and
are to be conveyed by the NS provider in such a way so as to preserve them distinct from any
previous or subsequent acknowledgements.  The NS user may thus correlate them with the original
requests by counting.  When an NSDU has been segmented into more than one NIDUs, only the last NIDU
is allowed to request receipt confirmation.  @prim{N_DATACK_REQ} primitive will not be subject to
the flow control affecting @prim{N_DATA_REQ} primitives at the same NC endpoint.
@prim{N_DATACK_IND} primitives will not be subject to the flow control affecting @prim{N_DATA_IND}
primitives at the same NC endpoint.

The use of the receipt confirmation service must be agreed to by the two NS users of the NC and the
NS provider during the NC establishment by using the @pval{DEFAULT_RC} parameter on the
@prim{N_CONN_REQ} or @prim{N_CONN_RES} primitive.

@node N_DATACK_REQ
@subsubsection Data Acknowledgement Request
@subsubheading N_DATACK_REQ
@prindex N_DATACK_REQ
This is a user-originated primitive that requests that the network provider acknowledge the
@prim{N_DATA_IND} that had previously been received with the receipt confirmation parameter set.
@subsubheading Format
The format of the primitive is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, structured as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_DATACK_REQ */
} N_datack_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_datack_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_DATACK_REQ}.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_DATA_XFER}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains the same (@psta{NS_DATA_XFER}).

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

This primitive does not require any acknowledgements, although it may generate a fatal
(unrecoverable) error.  This is indicated via an @msg{M_ERROR} @cite{STREAMS} message type (issued
to the NS user specifying the error number value of @errno{EPROTO}), which results in the failure of
all system calls on that Stream.  The allowable errors are as follows:

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @errno{EPROTO} @tab
This indicates the following unrecoverable protocol condition:
@itemize ---
@item The network interface was found to be in an incorrect state.
@end itemize
@end multitable

@emph{NOTE:}  If the interface is in the @psta{NS_IDLE} state when the provider receives the
@prim{N_DATACK_REQ} primitive, then the NS provider should discard the request without generating a
fatal error.  If the NS provider had no knowledge of a previous @prim{N_DATA_IND} with the receipt
confirmation flag set, then the NS provider should just ignore the request without generating a
fatal error.

@page
@node N_DATACK_IND
@subsubsection Data Acknowledgement Indication
@subsubheading N_DATACK_IND
@prindex N_DATACK_IND
This is a NS provider originated primitive that indicates to the network service user that the
remote network service user has acknowledged the data that had previously been sent with the receipt
confirmation set.
@subsubheading Format
The format of the primitive is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, structured as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_DATACK_IND */
} N_datack_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_datack_ind_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_DATACK_IND}.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_DATA_XFER}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains the same (@psta{NS_DATA_XFER}).

@page
@node Expedited Data Transfer Service
@subsection Expedited Data Transfer Service

@menu
* N_EXDATA_REQ::
* N_EXDATA_IND::
@end menu

The expedited data transfer service provides a further means of information exchange on an NC in
both directions simultaneously.  The transfer of expedited network service data unit (ENSDU) is
subject to separate flow control from that applying to NS user data.  (However, a separate
@cite{STREAMS} message type for expedited data is not available with @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}
System V Release 3.1}.  Until a new @cite{STREAMS} message type is provided, expedited data will be
implemented via queue manipulation).  The NS provider should guarantee that an expedited-NSDU will
not be delivered after any subsequently issued NSDU or expedited-NSDU on that NC.  The relationship
between normal and expedited data is shown in @tabref{2}.  Expedited data can still be delivered
when the receiving NS user is not accepting normal data (however this cannot be guaranteed if there
are blockages occurring in the lower layers).  The expedited data transfer service is a NS provider
option, and its use must be agreed by the two NS users of the NC and the NS provider during NC
establishment by using the @pval{EX_DATA_OPT} parameter on the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} and
@prim{N_CONN_RES} primitives.

@node N_EXDATA_REQ
@subsubsection Expedited Data Transfer Request
@subsubheading N_EXDATA_REQ
@prindex N_EXDATA_REQ
This is an NS user originated primitive and is used to indicate to the network provider that the
message block contains an ENSDU.
@subsubheading Format
The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, followed by one or more @msg{M_DATA}
message blocks.  The NS user must send an integral number of octets of data within the range
supported by the NS provider (@pxref{N_INFO_ACK}).

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block is as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_EXDATA_REQ */
} N_exdata_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_exdata_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Specifies the primitive type: always @prim{N_EXDATA_REQ}.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_DATA_XFER}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains the same (@psta{NS_DATA_XFER}).

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

This primitive does not require any acknowledgements, although it may generate a fatal
(unrecoverable) error.  This is indicated with an @msg{M_ERROR} @cite{STREAMS} message type (issued
to the NS user with the error number value of @errno{EPROTO}), which results in the failure of all
system calls on that Stream.  The applicable errors are as follows:

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @errno{EPROTO} @tab
This indicates one of the following unrecoverable protocol conditions:
@itemize ---
@item The network interface was found to be in an incorrect state.
@item The amount of NS user data associated with the primitive defines an expedited network service
data unit of a size that is outside the range supported by the NS provider.
@item Expedited data transfer is either not supported by the NS provider or not requested with the
@prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitive.
@end itemize
@end multitable

@emph{NOTE:}  If the interface is in the @psta{NS_IDLE} or @psta{NS_WRES_RIND} states when the
provider receives the @prim{N_EXDATA_REQ} primitive, then the NS provider should discard the request
without generating a fatal error.

@page
@node N_EXDATA_IND
@subsubsection Expedited Data Transfer Indication
@subsubheading N_EXDATA_IND
@prindex N_EXDATA_IND
This is a NS provider originated primitive and is used to indicate to the NS user that this message
contains an ENSDU.
@subsubheading Format
The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, followed by one or more @msg{M_DATA}
message blocks.  The value of the data in the @msg{M_DATA} message blocks is identical to that
supplied with the corresponding @prim{N_EXDATA_REQ} primitive.

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block is as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_EXDATA_IND */
} N_exdata_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_exdata_ind_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_EXDATA_IND}.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in the state @psta{NS_DATA_XFER}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains the same (@psta{NS_DATA_XFER}).


@page
@node Reset Service
@subsection Reset Service

@menu
* N_RESET_REQ::
* N_RESET_IND::
* N_RESET_RES::
* N_RESET_CON::
@end menu

The reset service can be used by the NS user to resynchronize the use of the NC; or by the NS
provider to report detected loss of data unrecoverable within the network service.

All loss of data that does not involve loss of the NC is reported in this way.  Invocation of the
reset service will unblock the flow of NSDUs and ENSDUs in case of congestion of the NC; it will
cause the NS provider to discard NSDUs, ENSDUs, or confirmations of receipt associated with the NC
(see @tabref{1}), and to notify any NS user or users that did not invoke reset that a reset has
occurred.  The service will be completed in finite time irrespective of the acceptance of the NSDUs,
ENSDUs, and confirmations of receipt by the NS users.

@node N_RESET_REQ
@subsubsection Reset Request
@subsubheading N_RESET_REQ
@prindex N_RESET_REQ
This user-originated primitive requests that the NS provider reset the network connection.
@subsubheading Format
The format of this primitive is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, structured as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_RESET_REQ */
        np_ulong RESET_reason;          /* reason for reset */
} N_reset_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_reset_req_t
@end smallexample
@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Specifies the primitive type: always @prim{N_RESET_REQ}.
@item @parm{RESET_reason} @tab
Specifies the reason for the reset.  (See ``Reasons'' below.)
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in the @psta{NS_DATA_XFER} state.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state is @psta{NS_WACK_RREQ}.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

The NS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgements upon receipt of this
primitive:

@itemize ---
@item @emph{Successful:}
This primitive does not require an immediate acknowledgement, although when the resynchronization
completes successfully, an @prim{N_RESET_CON} primitive is issued to the NS user that issued the
@prim{N_RESET_REQ}.
@item @emph{Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):}
A non-fatal error is acknowledged with the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.  In this case the resulting
state remains unchanged.  The following non-fatal error codes are valid:
@multitable @columnfractions .2 .7
@item @perr{NOUTSTATE} @tab
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
@item @perr{NSYSERR} @tab
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error is indicated with the
@prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.
@end multitable
@end itemize

@emph{NOTE:}  If the interface is in the @psta{NS_IDLE} state when the provider receives the
@prim{N_RESET_REQ} primitive, then the NS provider should discard the message without generating an
error.

@page
@node N_RESET_IND
@subsubsection Reset Indication
@subsubheading N_RESET_IND
@prindex N_RESET_IND
This network-provider-originated primitive indicates to the NS user that the network connection has
been reset.
@subsubheading Format
The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, structured as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_RESET_IND */
        np_ulong RESET_orig;            /* reset originator */
        np_ulong RESET_reason;          /* reason for reset */
} N_reset_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_reset_ind_t
@end smallexample
@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_RESET_IND}.
@item @parm{RESET_orig} @tab
Indicates the source of the reset.  (See ``Reasons'' below.)
@item @parm{RESET_reason} @tab
Indicates the reason fro the reset.  (See ``Reasons'' below.)
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in the @psta{NS_DATA_XFER} state.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_WRES_RIND}.


@page
@node N_RESET_RES
@subsubsection Reset Response
@subsubheading N_RESET_RES
@prindex N_RESET_RES
This user-originated primitive indicates that the NS user has accepted a reset request.
@subsubheading Format
The format of the primitive is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block and is structured as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_RESET_RES */
} N_reset_res_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_reset_res_t
@end smallexample
@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Specifies the primitive type: always @prim{N_RESET_RES}.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_WRES_RIND}.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_WACK_RRES}.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

The NS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgements upon receipt of this
primitive:

@itemize ---
@item @emph{Successful:}
The successful completion of this primitive is indicated with the @prim{N_OK_ACK} primitive.  This
results in the data transfer state (@psta{NS_DATA_XFER}).
@item @emph{Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):}
An unsuccessful completion of this primitive is indicated with the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.
The resulting state remains the same.  The following non-fatal error codes are valid:
@multitable @columnfractions .2 .7
@item @perr{NOUTSTATE} @tab
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
@item @perr{NSYSERR} @tab
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error is indicated in the
@prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.
@end multitable
@end itemize

@emph{NOTE:}  If the interface is in the @psta{NS_IDLE} state when the provider receives the
@prim{N_RESET_RES} primitive, then the NS provider should discard the message without generating an
error.

@page
@node N_RESET_CON
@subsubsection Reset Confirmation
@subsubheading N_RESET_CON
@prindex N_RESET_CON
This NS provider-originated primitive indicates to the network user that initiated the reset, that
the reset request has been confirmed.  The NS providers is allowed to issue the @prim{N_RESET_CON}
primitive to the NS user that initiated the reset even before receiving a @prim{N_RESET_RES}.
@subsubheading Format
The format of the primitive is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, structured as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_RESET_CON */
} N_reset_con_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_reset_con_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_RESET_CON}.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_WCON_RREQ}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state is @psta{NS_DATA_XFER}.

@page
@node Inform Service
@subsection Inform Service

@subsubsection @value{SHORT} Inform Request
@subsubheading N_INFORM_REQ
@anchor{N_INFORM_REQ}
@prindex N_INFORM_REQ
@subsubsection Format
@tpindex N_inform_req_t
@smallexample
@verbatim
#define N_INFORM_REQ    33
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_INFORM_REQ */
        np_ulong QOS_length;            /* qos parameters */
        np_ulong QOS_offset;
        np_ulong REASON;                /* inform reason */
} N_inform_req_t;

/* Inform reasons for use with N_INFORM_REQ */
#define N_SCCP_INFR_NSU_FAILURE         4
#define N_SCCP_INFR_NSU_CONGESTION      5
#define N_SCCP_INFR_NSU_QOS_CHANGE      6

/* Inform reasons for use with N_INFORM */
#define N_SCCP_INFR_UNSPECIFIED         7
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Specifies the primitive type: always @prim{N_INFORM_REQ}.
@item @parm{QOS_length} @tab
Specifies the length of the Quality of Service parameters.
@item @parm{QOS_offset} @tab
Specifies the offset of the Quality of Service parameters from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO}
message block.
@item @parm{REASON} @tab
Specifies the reason for informing the NS provider.  (See ``Reason'' below.)
@end multitable

@subsubheading Reason

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in the @psta{NS_DATA_XFER} state.

@subsubheading New State

The new state remains unchanged.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

@page
@subsubsection @value{SHORT} Inform Indication
@subsubheading N_INFORM_IND
@anchor{N_INFORM_IND}
@prindex N_INFORM_IND
@subsubsection Format
@tpindex N_inform_ind_t
@smallexample
@verbatim
#define N_INFORM_IND    34
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_INFORM_IND */
        np_ulong QOS_length;            /* qos parameters */
        np_ulong QOS_offset;
        np_ulong REASON;                /* inform reason */
} N_inform_ind_t;

/* Inform reasons for use with N_INFORM_IND */
#define N_SCCP_INFR_NSP_FAILURE         1
#define N_SCCP_INFR_NSP_CONGESTION      2
#define N_SCCP_INFR_NSP_QOS_CHANGE      3

/* Inform reasons for use with N_INFORM */
#define N_SCCP_INFR_UNSPECIFIED         7
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_INFORM_IND}.
@item @parm{QOS_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the Quality of Service parameters.
@item @parm{QOS_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the Quality of Service parameters from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO}
message block.
@item @parm{REASON} @tab
Indicates the reason for informing the NS user.  (See ``Reason'' below.)
@end multitable

@subsubheading Reason

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in the @psta{NS_DATA_XFER} state.

@subsubheading New State

The new state remains unchanged.

@page
@node Network Connection Release Phase
@subsection Network Connection Release Phase

@menu
* N_DISCON_REQ::
* N_DISCON_IND::
@end menu

The NC release service primitives are used to release a NC.  The release may be performed by:

@itemize ---
@item either or both of the NS users to release an established NC;
@item the NS provider to release an established NC (all failures to maintain an NC are indicated in
this manner);
@item the destination NS user to reject an @prim{N_CONN_IND};
@item by the NS provider to indicate its inability to establish a requested NC.
@end itemize

An NC release is permitted at any time regardless of the current phase of the NC.  Once an NC
release procedure has been invoked, the NC will be released; a request for release cannot be
rejected.  The network service does not guarantee delivery of any data once the NC release phase is
entered (see @tabref{1}).

@node N_DISCON_REQ
@subsubsection Disconnect Request
@subsubheading N_DISCON_REQ
@prindex N_DISCON_REQ
This user-originated primitive requests that the NS provider deny a request for a network
connection, or disconnect an existing connection.
@subsubheading Format
The format of the primitive is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, followed by one or more @msg{M_DATA}
message blocks (for NS user data).  The NS user data may be lost if the NS provider initiates
release before the @prim{N_DISCON_IND} is delivered.  Therefore, the NS user data parameter is
present only if the originator parameters (@pxref{N_DISCON_IND}) indicates that the release was
originated by an NS user.  The NS user may send any integral number of octets of data within a range
supported by the NS provider (@pxref{N_INFO_ACK}).

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block is as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_DISCON_REQ */
        np_ulong DISCON_reason;         /* reason */
        np_ulong RES_length;            /* responding address length */
        np_ulong RES_offset;            /* responding address offset */
        np_ulong SEQ_number;            /* sequence number */
} N_discon_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_discon_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Specifies the primitive type: always @prim{N_DISCON_REQ}.
@item @parm{DISCON_reason} @tab
Specifies the disconnect reason.  (See ``Reason'' below.)
@item @parm{RES_length} @tab
Specifies the length of the responding address.  The responding address parameter is an optional
parameter, and is present in the primitive only in the case where the primitive is used to indicate
rejection of an NC establishment attempt by an NS user.  The responding address parameter conveys
the network address of the NS user entity from which the @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} was issued and under
certain circumstances (e.g. call redirection, generic addressing, etc.) may be different from the
@dfn{Destination Address} in the corresponding @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitive.
@item @parm{RES_offset} @tab
Specifies the offset of the responding address from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} message
block.
@item @parm{SEQ_number} @tab
Specifies the connection indication being disconnected.  When non-zero, it identifies the sequence
number of the @prim{N_CONN_IND} message being rejected.  This number is used by the NS provider to
associate the @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} with an unacknowledged @prim{N_CONN_IND} that is to be rejected.
If the @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} is rejecting a NC that is already established (or rejecting a
@prim{N_CONN_REQ} that the NS user had previously sent and has not yet been confirmed), then this
field should have a value of zero (@samp{0}).
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in states @psta{NS_WCON_CREQ}, @psta{NS_WRES_CIND}, @psta{NS_DATA_XFER},
@psta{NS_WCON_RREQ} and @psta{NS_WRES_RIND}.

@subsubheading New State

The new state depends on the original state (see @tabref{B-8}).

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

The NS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgements upon receipt of this
primitive:

@itemize ---
@item @emph{Successful:}
Successful completion is indicated with the @prim{N_OK_ACK} primitive.
@item @emph{Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):}
Errors are indicated with the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.  The applicable non-fatal errors are as
follows:
@multitable @columnfractions .2 .7
@item @perr{NOUTSTATE} @tab
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
@item @perr{NBADDATA} @tab
The amount of user data specified was outside the range supported by the NS provider.
@item @perr{NSYSERR} @tab
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error is indicated in the
primitive.
@item @perr{NBADSEQ} @tab
The specified sequence number referred to an invalid @prim{N_CONN_IND} message, or the
@prim{N_DISCON_REQ} is rejecting an NC that is already established (or rejecting an
@prim{N_CONN_REQ} that the NS user had previously sent and has not yet been confirmed) and the value
of the sequence number is not @samp{0}.
@end multitable
@end itemize

@page
@node N_DISCON_IND
@subsubsection Disconnect Indication
@subsubheading N_DISCON_IND
@prindex N_DISCON_IND
This network-provider originated primitive indicates to the NS user that either a request for
connection has been denied or an existing connection has been disconnected.
@subsubheading Format
The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, followed by one or more @msg{M_DATA}
blocks.  The value of the NS user data parameter is identical to the value in the corresponding
@prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive.  The NS user data parameter is present only if the originator
parameter indicates that the release was initiated by the NS user.

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block is as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_DISCON_IND */
        np_ulong DISCON_orig;           /* originator */
        np_ulong DISCON_reason;         /* reason */
        np_ulong RES_length;            /* address length */
        np_ulong RES_offset;            /* address offset */
        np_ulong SEQ_number;            /* sequence number */
} N_discon_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_discon_ind_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_DISCON_REQ}.
@item @parm{DISCON_orig} @tab
Indicates the disconnect source.  (See ``Reason'' below.)
@item @parm{DISCON_reason} @tab
Indicates the disconnect reason.  (See ``Reason'' below.)
@item @parm{RES_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the responding address.  The responding address parameter is an optional
parameter, and is present in the primitive only in the case where the primitive is used to indicate
rejection of an NC establishment attempt by an NS user.  When not present, the value of this
parameter is zero.  When present, the value of the disconnect address parameter is identical to that
supplied with the corresponding @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive.
@item @parm{RES_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the responding address from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} message
block.
@item @parm{SEQ_number} @tab
Indicates the connection indication being disconnected.  When its value is non-zero, it identifies
the sequence number associated with the @prim{N_CONN_IND} primitive that is being aborted.

The value of this parameter must be zero when:

@enumerate a
@item indicating the rejection of a previously issued @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitive; or
@item indicating the release of a NC that is already successfully established.
@end enumerate

When this field is non-zero and its value is the same as the sequence number assigned to an
unacknowledged @prim{N_CONN_IND}, it indicates that the NS provider is canceling the unacknowledged
@prim{N_CONN_IND}.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

The valid states are as follows:

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @psta{NS_WCON_CREQ} @tab
Waiting confirmation of connection request. 
@item @psta{NS_WRES_CIND} @tab
Waiting response of connection indication.
@item @psta{NS_DATA_XFER} @tab
Waiting response of data transfer.
@item @psta{NS_WCON_RREQ} @tab
Waiting confirmation of reset request.
@item @psta{NS_WRES_RIND} @tab
Waiting response to reset indication.
@end multitable

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_IDLE} (except when number of outstanding connect indications is greater
than 1, in which case the resulting state is @psta{NS_WRES_CIND}).

@page
@node Connectionless Mode Primitives
@section Connectionless Mode Primitives

@menu
* Unit Data Transfer::
* Unit Data Error::
@end menu

This section describes the format of the CLNS primitives and the rules associated with these
primitives.  The values of the QOS parameters associated with each unit data transmission are
selected with the @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} primitive.

@node Unit Data Transfer
@subsection Unit Data Transfer

@node N_UNITDATA_REQ
@subsubsection Unit Data Request
@subsubheading N_UNITDATA_REQ
@prindex N_UNITDATA_REQ
This primitive requests that the NS provider send the specified datagram to the specified
destination.
@subsubheading Format
The format of the primitive is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block followed by one or more @msg{M_DATA}
message blocks.  The @msg{M_PROTO} message block is structured as followed:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_UNITDATA_REQ */
        np_ulong DEST_length;           /* destination address length */
        np_ulong DEST_offset;           /* destination address offset */
        np_ulong RESERVED_field[2];     /* reserved field for DLPI compatibility */
} N_unitdata_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_unitdata_req_t
@end smallexample
@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Specifies the primitive type: always @prim{N_UNITDATA_REQ}.
@item @parm{DEST_length} @tab
Specifies the length of the destination address.
@item @parm{DEST_offset} @tab
Specifies the offset of the destination address from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} message
block.
@item @parm{RESERVED_field[0]} @tab
Specified the length of the Quality of Service parameters.
@item @parm{RESERVED_field[1]} @tab
Specified the offset of the Quality of Service parameters from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO}
message block.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_IDLE}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains unchanged.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

The NS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgements upon receipt of this
primitive:

@itemize ---
@item @emph{Successful:}
There is no acknowledgement for the successful completion of this primitive.
@item @emph{Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):}
If a non-fatal error occurs, it is the responsibility of the NS provider to report it with the
@prim{N_UDERROR_IND} primitive.  The following non-fatal error codes are allowed:
@multitable @columnfractions .2 .7
@item @perr{NBADADDR} @tab
The network address as specified in the primitive was in an incorrect format, or the address
contained illegal information.
@item @perr{NBADDATA} @tab
The amount of user data specified was outside the range supported by the NS provider.
@item @perr{NOUTSTATE} @tab
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
@end multitable
@item @emph{Fatal Error:}
Fatal errors are indicated with an @msg{M_ERROR} @cite{STREAMS} message type (issued to the NS user with
the error number value of @errno{EPROTO}), that results in the failure of all
@cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system calls on the Stream.  The fatal errors are as follows:
@multitable @columnfractions .2 .7
@item @errno{EPROTO} @tab
This indicates one of the following unrecoverable protocol conditions:
@itemize ---
@item The network service interface was found to be in an incorrect state.
@item The amount of NS user data associated with the primitive defines a network service data unit
larger than that allowed by the NS provider.
@end itemize
@end multitable
@end itemize

@page
@node N_UNITDATA_IND
@subsubsection Unit Data Indication
@subsubheading N_UNITDATA_IND
@prindex N_UNITDATA_IND
This primitive indicates to the NS user that a datagram has been received from the specified source
address.
@subsubheading Format
The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block followed by one or more @msg{M_DATA}
message blocks containing at least one byte of data.  The format of the @msg{M_PROTO} is as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_UNITDATA_IND */
        np_ulong SRC_length;            /* source address length */
        np_ulong SRC_offset;            /* source address offset */
        np_ulong DEST_length;           /* source address length */
        np_ulong DEST_offset;           /* source address offset */
        np_ulong ERROR_type;            /* reserved field for DLPI compatibility */
} N_unitdata_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_unitdata_ind_t
@end smallexample
@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_UNITDATA_IND}.
@item @parm{SRC_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the source network address.  This address is the same as the value
associated with the Stream on which the @prim{N_UNITDATA_REQ} was issued.
@item @parm{SRC_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the source address from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block.
@item @parm{DEST_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the destination address.  The address is the same as in the corresponding
@prim{N_UNITDATA_REQ} primitive.
@item @parm{DEST_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the destination address from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} message
block.
@item @parm{ERROR_type} @tab
Specifies the reason for the error.  The possible values are:
@table @pval
@item N_UD_CONGESTION
This packet experienced congestion during its delivery.
@end table
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_IDLE}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains unchanged.

@page
@node Unit Data Error
@subsection Unit Data Error

@node N_UDERROR_IND
@subsubsection Unit Data Error Indication
@subsubheading N_UDERROR_IND
@prindex N_UDERROR_IND
This primitive indicates to the NS user that a datagram with the specified destination address and
QOS parameters has resulted in an error condition.
@subsubheading Format
The format of the primitive is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, structured as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_UDERROR_IND */
        np_ulong DEST_length;           /* destination address length */
        np_ulong DEST_offset;           /* destination address offset */
        np_ulong RESERVED_field;        /* reserved field for DLPI compatibility */
        np_ulong ERROR_type;            /* error type */
} N_uderror_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_uderror_ind_t
@end smallexample
@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_UDERROR_IND}.
@item @parm{DEST_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the destination address.  The address is the same as in the corresponding
@prim{N_UNITDATA_REQ} primitive.
@item @parm{DEST_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the destination address from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} message
block.
@item @parm{RESERVED_field} @tab
This field is reserved whose value must be set to zero.
@item @parm{ERROR_type} @tab
Indicates the reason for the error.  (See ``Errors'' below.)
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_IDLE}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains unchanged.


@page
@node Notice Indication
@subsubsection Notice Indication
@subsubheading N_NOTICE_IND
@anchor{N_NOTICE_IND}
@prindex N_NOTICE_IND
This primitive indicates to the NS user that a datagram with the specifid destination address,
source address and Quality of Service parameters has been returned due to an error.
@subsubheading Format
@tpindex N_notice_ind_t
The format of the mssage is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block followed by one or more @msg{M_DATA}
message blocks (containing the originalling sent NS user data).
@smallexample
@verbatim
#define N_NOTICE_IND    32
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_NOTICE_IND */
        np_ulong DEST_length;           /* address data was sent to */
        np_ulong DEST_offset;
        np_ulong SRC_length;            /* address data was sent from */
        np_ulong SRC_offset;
        np_ulong QOS_length;            /* QOS parameters data was sent with */
        np_ulong QOS_offset;
        np_ulong RETURN_cause;          /* reason for return of data */
} N_notice_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@end smallexample
@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_NOTICE_IND}.
@item @parm{DEST_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the destination address.
@item @parm{DEST_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the destination address from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} message
block.
@item @parm{SRC_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the source address.
@item @parm{SRC_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the source address from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block.
@item @parm{QOS_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the Quality of Service parameters.
@item @parm{QOS_offset} @tab
Indicates the length of the Quality of Service parameters from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO}
message block.
@item @parm{RETURN_cause} @tab
Indicates the cause for the return of the datagram.  (See ``Cause'' below.)
@end multitable

@subsubheading Cause

@table @pval
@item SCCP_RETC_NO_ADDRESS_TYPE_TRANSLATION
No address type translation.
@item SCCP_RETC_NO_ADDRESS_TRANSLATION
No address translation.
@item SCCP_RETC_SUBSYSTEM_CONGESTION
Subsystem congestion.
@item SCCP_RETC_SUBSYSTEM_FAILURE
Subsystem failure.
@item SCCP_RETC_UNEQUIPPED_USER
Unequipped user.
@item SCCP_RETC_MTP_FAILURE
MTP failure.
@item SCCP_RETC_NETWORK_CONGESTION
Network congestion.
@item SCCP_RETC_UNQUALIFIED
Unqualified.
@item SCCP_RETC_MESSAGE_TRANSPORT_ERROR
Message transport error.
@item SCCP_RETC_LOCAL_PROCESSING_ERROR
Local processing error.
@item SCCP_RETC_NO_REASSEMBLY_AT_DESTINATION
No reassembly at destination.
@item SCCP_RETC_SCCP_FAILURE
SCCP failure.
@item SCCP_RETC_SCCP_HOP_COUNTER_VIOLATION
SCCP hop counter violation.
@item SCCP_RETC_SEGMENTATION_NOT_SUPPORTED
Segmentation not supported.
@item SCCP_RETC_SEGMENTATION_FAILURE
Segmenetation failure.
@item SCCP_RETC_MESSAGE_CHANGE_FAILURE
Message change failure.
@item SCCP_RETC_INVALID_INS_ROUTING_REQUEST
Invalid INS routing request.
@item SCCP_RETC_INVALID_INSI_ROUTING_REQUEST
Invalid INSI routing request.
@item SCCP_RETC_UNAUTHORIZED_MESSAGE
Unauthorized message.
@item SCCP_RETC_MESSAGE_INCOMPATIBILITY
Message incompatibility.
@item SCCP_RETC_CANNOT_PERFORM_ISNI_CONSTRAINED_ROUTING
Cannot perform ISNI constrained routing.
@item SCCP_RETC_REDUNDANT_ISNI_CONSTRAINED_ROUTING_INFO
Redundant ISNI constrained routing information.
@item SCCP_RETC_UNABLE_TO_PERFORM_ISNI_IDENTIFICATION
Unable to perform ISNI identification.
@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_IDLE}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains unchanged.

@page
@node @value{SHORT} Provider Management Primitives
@section @value{SHORT} Provider Management Primitives

@menu
* @value{SHORT} Status Service::
* @value{SHORT} PC Status Service::
* @value{SHORT} Coordination Service::
@end menu

@node @value{SHORT} Status Service
@subsection @value{SHORT} Status Service

@subsubsection State Request
@subsubheading N_STATE_REQ
@anchor{N_STATE_REQ}
@prindex N_STATE_REQ
@subsubheading Format
@tpindex N_state_req_t
@smallexample
@verbatim
#define N_STATE_REQ     39
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_STATE_REQ */
        np_ulong ADDR_length;           /* affected subsystem */
        np_ulong ADDR_offset;
        np_ulong STATUS;                /* user status */
} N_state_req_t;
@end verbatim
@end smallexample
@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Specifies the primitive type: always @prim{N_STATE_REQ}.
@item @parm{ADDR_length} @tab
Specifies the length of the affected address (point code and subsystem).
@item @parm{ADDR_offset} @tab
Specifies the offset of the affected address (point code and subsystem) from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.
@item @parm{STATUS} @tab
Specifies the user status.  (See ``Status'' below.)
@end multitable

@subsubheading Status
@subsubheading Valid States
@subsubheading New State
@subsubheading Acknowledgements

The NS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgements upon receipt of this
primitive:

@itemize ---
@item @emph{Succcessful:}
@item @emph{Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):}
@end itemize

@page
@subsubsection State Indication
@subsubheading N_STATE_IND
@anchor{N_STATE_IND}
@prindex N_STATE_IND
@subsubheading Format
@tpindex N_state_ind_t
The format of the message is one @msg{M_PCPROTO} message block.  The structure of the
@msg{M_PCPROTO} message block is as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
#define N_STATE_IND     40
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_STATE_IND */
        np_ulong ADDR_length;           /* affected subsystem */
        np_ulong ADDR_offset;
        np_ulong STATUS;                /* user status */
        np_ulong SMI;                   /* subsystem multiplicity indicator */
} N_state_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@end smallexample
@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_STATE_IND}.
@item @parm{ADDR_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the affected address (point code and subsystem).
@item @parm{ADDR_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the affected address (point code and subsystem) from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.
@item @parm{STATUS} @tab
Indicates the user status.  (See ``Status'' below.)
@item @parm{SMI} @tab
Indicates the subsystem multiplicity indicator.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Type and Status

@subsubheading Valid States
@subsubheading New State

@page
@node @value{SHORT} PC Status Service
@subsection @value{SHORT} PC Status Service

@subsubsection PC State Indication
@subsubheading N_PCSTATE_IND
@anchor{N_PCSTATE_IND}
@prindex N_PCSTATE_IND
This primitive indicates to the @value{SHORT}-User that the indicated remote @value{SHORT}-entity
(signalling point) is temporarily inaccessible.  This implies the inaccessibility of remote
@value{SHORT}-User at the affected signalling point.
@subsubheading Format
@tpindex N_pcstate_ind_t
The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block.  The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO}
message block is as follows:
@smallexample
@verbatim
#define N_PCSTATE_IND   41
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_PCSTATE_IND */
        np_ulong ADDR_length;           /* affected point code */
        np_ulong ADDR_offset;
        np_ulong STATUS;                /* status */
} N_pcstate_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@end smallexample
@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_PCSTATE_IND}.
@item @parm{ADDR_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the affected address (point code and subsystem).
@item @parm{ADDR_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the affected address (point code and subsystem) from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.
@item @parm{STATUS} @tab
Indicates the user status.  (See ``Status'' below.)
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States
@subsubheading New State

@page
@node @value{SHORT} Coordination Service
@subsection @value{SHORT} Coordination Service

@subsubsection Coordination Request
@subsubheading N_COORD_REQ
@anchor{N_COORD_REQ}
@prindex N_COORD_REQ
@subsubheading Format
@tpindex N_coord_req_t
@smallexample
@verbatim
#define N_COORD_REQ     35
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* alwyas N_COORD_REQ */
        np_ulong ADDR_length;           /* affected subsystem */
        np_ulong ADDR_offset;
} N_coord_req_t;
@end verbatim
@end smallexample
@subsubheading Parameters
@subsubheading Valid States
@subsubheading New State
@subsubheading Acknowledgements

The NS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgements upon receipt of this
primitive:

@itemize ---
@item @emph{Succcessful:}
@item @emph{Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):}
@end itemize


@page
@subsubsection Coordination Indication
@subsubheading N_COORD_IND
@anchor{N_COORD_IND}
@prindex N_COORD_IND
@subsubheading Format
@tpindex N_coord_ind_t
@smallexample
@verbatim
#define N_COORD_IND     37
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* alwyas N_COORD_IND */
        np_ulong ADDR_length;           /* affected subsystem */
        np_ulong ADDR_offset;
        np_ulong SMI;                   /* subsystem multiplicity indicator */
} N_coord_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@end smallexample
@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_COORD_IND}.
@item @parm{ADDR_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the affected address (point code and subsystem).
@item @parm{ADDR_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the affected address (point code and subsystem) from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.
@item @parm{SMI} @tab
Indicates the subsystem multiplicity indicator.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States
@subsubheading New State

@page
@subsubsection Coordination Response
@subsubheading N_COORD_RES
@anchor{N_COORD_RES}
@prindex N_COORD_RES
@subsubheading Format
@tpindex N_coord_res_t
@smallexample
@verbatim
#define N_COORD_RES     36
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_COORD_RES */
        np_ulong ADDR_length;           /* affected subsystem */
        np_ulong ADDR_offset;
} N_coord_res_t;
@end verbatim
@end smallexample
@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Specifies the primitive type: always @prim{N_COORD_RES}.
@item @parm{ADDR_length} @tab
Specifies the length of the affected address (point code and subsystem).
@item @parm{ADDR_offset} @tab
Specifies the offset of the affected address (point code and subsystem) from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States
@subsubheading New State
@subsubheading Acknowledgements

The NS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgements upon receipt of this
primitive:

@itemize ---
@item @emph{Succcessful:}
@item @emph{Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):}
@end itemize


@page
@subsubsection Coordination Confirmation
@subsubheading N_COORD_CON
@anchor{N_COORD_CON}
@prindex N_COORD_CON
@subsubheading Format
@tpindex N_coord_con_t
@smallexample
@verbatim
#define N_COORD_CON     38
typedef struct {
        np_ulong PRIM_type;             /* always N_COORD_CON */
        np_ulong ADDR_length;           /* affected subsystem */
        np_ulong ADDR_offset;
        np_ulong SMI;                   /* subsystem multiplicity indicator */
} N_coord_con_t;
@end verbatim
@end smallexample
@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @parm{PRIM_type} @tab
Indicates the primitive type: always @prim{N_PCSTATE_IND}.
@item @parm{ADDR_length} @tab
Indicates the length of the affected address (point code and subsystem).
@item @parm{ADDR_offset} @tab
Indicates the offset of the affected address (point code and subsystem) from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.
@item @parm{STATUS} @tab
Indicates the user status.  (See ``Status'' below.)
@end multitable

@subsubheading Valid States
@subsubheading New State

@node Diagnostics Requirements
@chapter Diagnostics Requirements

Two error handling facilities should be provided to the @value{SHORT} user: one to handle non-fatal
errors, and the other to handle fatal errors.

@section Non-Fatal Error Handling Facility

These are errors that do not change the state of the @value{SHORT} service interface as seen by the
@value{SHORT} service user, and provide the user the option of reissuing the @value{SHORT} service
primitive with the corrected options specification.  The non-fatal error handling is provided only
to those primitive that require acknowledgements, and uses the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive to
report these errors.  These errors retain the state of hte @value{SHORT} service interface the same
as it was before the @value{SHORT} service provider received the primitive that was in error.
Syntax errros and rule violations are reported via the non-fatal error handling facility.

@section Fatal Error Handling Facility

These errors are issued by the @value{SHORT} provider when it detects errors that are not
correctable by the @value{SHORT} user, or if it is unable to report a correctible error to the
@value{SHORT} user.  Fatal errors are indicated via the @cite{STREAMS} message type @msg{M_ERROR} with the
UNIX system error @errno{EPROTO}.  The @msg{M_ERROR} @cite{STREAMS} message type will result in the failure
of all the UNIX system calls on the stream.  The @value{SHORT} user can recover from a fatal error
by having all the processes close the files associated with the stream, and then reopening them for
processing.

These errors are issued by the @value{SHORT} when it detects errors that are not correctable by the
@value{SHORT} service user, or if it is unable to report a correctable error to the @value{SHORT}
service user.  Fatal errors are indicated via the @cite{STREAMS} message type @msg{M_ERROR} with the UNIX
system error @errno{EPROTO}.  The @msg{M_ERROR} @cite{STREAMS} message type will result in the failure of
all the UNIX system calls on the stream.  The @value{SHORT} service user can recover from a fatal
error by having all the processes close the files associated with the stream, and then reopening
them for processing.

@node @value{INTERFACE} Input-Output Controls
@chapter @value{INTERFACE} Input-Output Controls
@cindex @value{INTERFACE} input-output controls

@node @value{INTERFACE} Management Information Base
@chapter @value{INTERFACE} Management Information Base
@cindex @value{INTERFACE} management information base

@node Addendum for @value{SHORT} Conformance
@unnumbered Addendum for @value{SHORT} Conformance

@menu
* Addendum for ITU-T Q.711 Conformance::
* Addendum for ANSI T1.112 Conformance::
* Addendum for ETSI EN 300 009-1 Conformance::
@end menu

@node Addendum for ITU-T Q.711 Conformance
@unnumberedsec Addendum for ITU-T Q.711 Conformance

This addendum describes the formats and rules that are specific to ETSI EN 300 009-1 V3.2.2.  The
addendum must be used along with the generic @value{INTERFACE} as defined in the main document, and
the EN 300 009-1 conformance defined in Addendum 2, when implementing an @value{SHORT} that will be
configured with the EN 300 008-1 @value{LONG}.

@unnumberedsec Primitives and Rules for ETSI EN 300 009-1 V3.2.2 Conformance

The following are the additional rules that apply to the @value{INTERFACE} primitives for ETSI EN
300 009-1 V3.2.2 compatibility.

@unnumberedsubsec Local Management Primitives

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@end multitable

@subsubheading Flags
@subsubheading Rules

@unnumberedsubsec Connection Mode Primitives

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@end multitable

@subsubheading Flags
@subsubheading Rules

@unnumberedsubsec Connectionless Primitives

@subsubheading Parameters

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@end multitable

@subsubheading Flags
@subsubheading Rules

@page
@node Addendum for ANSI T1.112 Conformance
@unnumberedsec Addendum for ANSI T1.112 Conformance

@page
@node Addendum for ETSI EN 300 009-1 Conformance
@unnumberedsec Addendum for ETSI EN 300 009-1 Conformance

@node Mapping @value{INTERFACE} Primitives
@appendix Mapping @value{INTERFACE} Primitives

@menu
* Mapping @value{INTERFACE} Primitives to Q.711::
* Mapping @value{INTERFACE} Primitives to ANSI T1.112::
* Mapping @value{INTERFACE} Primitives to ETSI EN 300 009-1::
@end menu

@node Mapping @value{INTERFACE} Primitives to Q.711
@section Mapping @value{INTERFACE} Primitives to Q.711

Table A-1 shows the mapping of the @value{INTERFACE} primitives to the @value{SHORT} definition
primitives listed in ITU-T Recommendation Q.711.

The mapping of @value{INTERFACE} primitives to Q.711 primitives is shown in @tabref{6}.  For the
most part, this mapping is a one to one mapping of service primitives, with the exception of
@emph{Connect Request} and @emph{Disconnect Request}.

In Q.711 there is no concept of an @dfn{NC} between @value{SHORT}-entities.  In OpenSS7
@value{INTERFACE}, the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} and @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitives are used to
establish and release an NC between @value{SHORT}-entities.

@c @tabfig{sccpi_tab06,6,Mapping of @value{INTERFACE} primitives to Q.711 Primitives}

@page
@node Mapping @value{INTERFACE} Primitives to ANSI T1.112
@section Mapping @value{INTERFACE} Primitives to ANSI T1.112

The mapping of @value{INTERFACE} primitives to T1.112 primitives is shown in @tabref{7}.  For the
most part, this mapping is a one to one mapping of service primitives, with the exception of
@emph{Connect Request} and @emph{Disconnect Request}.

In T1.112 there is no concept of an @dfn{NC} between @value{SHORT}-entities.  In OpenSS7
@value{INTERFACE}, the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} and @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitives are used to
establish and release an NC between @value{SHORT}-entities.

@c @tabfig{sccpi_tab07,7,Mapping of @value{INTERFACE} primitives to T1.112 Primitives}

@page
@node Mapping @value{INTERFACE} Primitives to ETSI EN 300 009-1
@section Mapping @value{INTERFACE} Primitives to ETSI EN 300 009-1

The mapping of @value{INTERFACE} primitives to EN 300 009-1 primitives is shown in @tabref{8}.  For the
most part, this mapping is a one to one mapping of service primitives, with the exception of
@emph{Connect Request} and @emph{Disconnect Request}.

In EN 300 009-1 there is no concept of an @dfn{NC} between @value{SHORT}-entities.  In OpenSS7
@value{INTERFACE}, the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} and @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitives are used to
establish and release an NC between @value{SHORT}-entities.

@c @tabfig{sccpi_tab08,8,Mapping of @value{INTERFACE} primitives to EN 300 009-1 Primitives}

@node State/Event Tables
@appendix State/Event Tables

@node Precedence Tables
@appendix Precedence Tables

@c @node Allowable Sequence of @value{INTERFACE} Primitives
@c @chapter Allowable Sequence of @value{INTERFACE} Primitives

@c @node Precedence of @value{INTERFACE} Primitives
@c @chapter Precedence of @value{INTERFACE} Primitives

@c @node Guidelines for Protocol Independent @value{INTERFACE} Users
@c @appendix Guidelines for Protocol Independent @value{INTERFACE} Users

@c @node Required Information for @value{INTERFACE} Provider-Specific Addenda
@c @appendix Required Information for @value{INTERFACE} Provider-Specific Addenda

@node @value{INTERFACE} Header Files
@appendix @value{INTERFACE} Header Files

@noindent
@smallformat
@c @verbatiminclude sccpi.h
@end smallformat

@node @value{INTERFACE} Library
@appendix @value{INTERFACE} Library

@node @value{INTERFACE} Drivers and Modules
@appendix @value{INTERFACE} Drivers and Modules

@c @figuresized{sccpi_figc1,C-1,@value{INTERFACE} Drivers and Modules,5.5in}

@node @value{INTERFACE} Utilities
@appendix @value{INTERFACE} Utilities

@node @value{INTERFACE} File Formats
@appendix @value{INTERFACE} File Formats

@node @value{INTERFACE} Compatibility and Porting
@appendix @value{INTERFACE} Compatibility and Porting

@node License
@unnumbered License

@menu
* GNU Affero General Public License::
* GNU Free Documentation License::
@end menu

@include texi/agpl3.texi
@include texi/fdl13.texi

@node Glossary
@unnumbered Glossary

@table @emph
@item Signalling Data Link Service Data Unit
A grouping of SDL user data whose boundaries are preserved from one end of the signalling data link
connection to the other.
@item Data transfer
The phase in connection and connectionless modes that supports the transfer of data between to
signalling data link users.
@item SDL provider
The signalling data link layer protocol that provides the services of the signalling data link
interface.
@item SDL user
The user-level application or user-level or kernel-level protocol that accesses the services of the
signalling data link layer.
@item Local management
The phase in connection and connectionless modes in which a SDL user initializes a Stream and
attaches a PPA address to the Stream.  Primitives in this phase generate local operations only.
@item PPA
The point at which a system attaches itself to a physical communications medium.
@item PPA identifier
An identifier of a particular physical medium over which communication transpires.
@end table

@node Acronyms
@unnumbered Acronyms

@multitable @columnfractions 0.15 0.85
@item @dfn{ANSI} @tab American National Standards Institute
@item @dfn{CCITT} @tab The International Telegraph and Telephone Consutative Committee, old name for ITU-T
@item @dfn{CONS} @tab Connection-Oriented Network Service
@item @dfn{CUD} @tab Call User Data
@item @dfn{DCE} @tab Data Circuit-terminating Equipment
@item @dfn{DDN} @tab Defence Data Network
@item @dfn{DLPI} @tab Data Link Provider Interface
@item @dfn{DLSAP} @tab Destination Link Service Access Point
@item @dfn{DNIC} @tab Data Network Identification Code
@item @dfn{DSAP} @tab Destination Service Access Point
@item @dfn{DTE} @tab Data Terminal Equipment 
@item @dfn{ENSDU} @tab Expedited Network Service Data Unit
@item @dfn{ETSI} @tab European Telecommunications Standards Institute
@item @dfn{HDLC} @tab High-Level Data Link Control
@item @dfn{IEEE} @tab Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
@item @dfn{IP} @tab Internet Protocol
@item @dfn{ISDNI} @tab ISDN Interface
@item @dfn{ISDN} @tab Integrated Services Digital Network
@item @dfn{ISO} @tab International Organization for Standardization
@item @dfn{ISUPI} @tab ISUP Interface
@item @dfn{ISUP} @tab ISDN User Part
@item @dfn{ITU} @tab International Telecommunications Union
@item @dfn{ITU-T} @tab ITU Telecom Sector
@item @dfn{LAN} @tab Local Area Network
@item @dfn{LAPB} @tab Link Access Procedure (Balanced), ISO/IEC 7776
@item @dfn{LAPD} @tab Link Access Procedure D-Channel, Q.921
@item @dfn{LAPF} @tab Link Access Procedure Frame Mode, Q.922
@item @dfn{LAP} @tab Link Access Procedure
@item @dfn{LCI} @tab Logical Channel Identifier
@item @dfn{LLC1} @tab Logical Link Control Type 1
@item @dfn{LLC2} @tab Logical Link Control Type 2
@item @dfn{LLC3} @tab Logical Link Control Type 3
@item @dfn{LLC} @tab Logical Link Control
@item @dfn{LLI} @tab Logical Link Inteface
@item @dfn{LSAP} @tab Link Service Access Point
@item @dfn{MAC} @tab Media Access Control
@item @dfn{MTPI} @tab Message Transfer Part Interface
@item @dfn{MTP} @tab Message Transfer Part 
@item @dfn{NLI} @tab Network Layer Interface
@item @dfn{NPDU} @tab Network Protocol Data Unit
@item @dfn{NPI} @tab Network Provider Interface
@item @dfn{NPI} @tab Numbering Plan Indicator
@item @dfn{NSAP} @tab Network Service Access Point
@item @dfn{NSDU} @tab Network Service Data Unit
@item @dfn{NSP} @tab Network Service Provider
@item @dfn{NS} @tab Network Service
@item @dfn{NSU} @tab Network Service User
@item @dfn{NUI} @tab Network User Information
@item @dfn{PAD} @tab Packet Assembler/Disassembler
@item @dfn{PDN} @tab Public Data Network
@item @dfn{PDU} @tab Protocol Data Unit
@item @dfn{PLP} @tab Packet Layer Protocol
@item @dfn{PPA} @tab Physical Point of Attachment
@item @dfn{PSDN} @tab Public Switched Data Network
@item @dfn{PSTN} @tab Public Switch Telephone Network
@item @dfn{PVC} @tab Permanent Virtual Circuit
@item @dfn{QOS} @tab Quality of Service
@item @dfn{RPOA} @tab Recognized Private Operating Agency
@item @dfn{SAP} @tab Service Access Point
@item @dfn{SCCPI} @tab Signalling Connection Control Part Interface
@item @dfn{SCCP} @tab Signalling Connection Control Part
@item @dfn{SDLI} @tab Signalling Data Link Interface
@item @dfn{SDL} @tab Signalling Data Link
@item @dfn{SDTI} @tab Signalling Data Terminal Interface
@item @dfn{SDT} @tab Signalling Data Terminal
@item @dfn{SDU} @tab Service Data Unit
@item @dfn{SLI} @tab Signalling Link Interface
@item @dfn{SLSAP} @tab Source Link Service Access Point
@item @dfn{SL} @tab Signalling Link
@item @dfn{SNPA} @tab Subnetwork Point of Attachment
@item @dfn{SSAP} @tab Source Service Access Point
@item @dfn{SVC} @tab Switched Virtual Circuit
@item @dfn{TCAP} @tab Transaction Capabilities Application Part
@item @dfn{TCI} @tab Transaction Component Interface
@item @dfn{TC} @tab Component Handling Sub-Layer
@item @dfn{TLI} @tab Transport Layer Interface
@item @dfn{TOA/NPI} @tab Type of Address/Numbering Plan Indicator
@item @dfn{TOA} @tab Type of Address
@item @dfn{TPI} @tab Transport Provider Interface
@item @dfn{TRI} @tab Transaction Interface
@item @dfn{TR} @tab Transaction Handling Sub-Layer
@item @dfn{VC} @tab Virtual Circuit
@item @dfn{WAN} @tab Wide Area Network
@item @dfn{X.121} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.121
@item @dfn{X.25} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.25
@item @dfn{X.28} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.28
@item @dfn{X.3} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.3
@item @dfn{X.75} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.75
@item @dfn{XX25} @tab X.25 Programming Inteface using XTI
@item @dfn{XXX} @tab X.3, X.28, X.29
@end multitable

@node References
@unnumbered References

@multitable {000}{Geoffrey Gerrien, ``CDI - Application Program Interface Guide,'' Gcom, Inc., March 1999.}
@item [1] @anchor{Q.700} @tab @uref{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-Q.700/,ITU-T Recommendation Q.700},
@cite{Introduction to CCITT Signalling System No. 7},
March 1993, (Geneva), ITU,
@uref{http://www.itu.int/,,ITU-T Telecommunication Standardization Sector of ITU}, 
(Previously ``CCITT Recommendation'').
@item [2] @anchor{Q.701} @tab @uref{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-Q.701/,ITU-T Recommendation Q.701},
@cite{Functional Description of the Message Transfer Part (MTP) of Signalling System No. 7},
March 1993, (Geneva), ITU,
@uref{http://www.itu.int/,,ITU-T Telecommunication Standardization Sector of ITU}, 
(Previously ``CCITT Recommendation'').
@item [3] @anchor{Q.702} @tab @uref{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-Q.702/,ITU-T Recommendation Q.702},
@cite{Signalling System No. 7---Signalling Data Link},
March 1993, (Geneva), ITU,
@uref{http://www.itu.int/,,ITU-T Telecommunication Standardization Sector of ITU}, 
(Previously ``CCITT Recommendation'').
@item [4] @anchor{Q.703} @tab @uref{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-Q.703/,ITU-T Recommendation Q.703},
@cite{Signalling System No. 7---Signalling Link},
March 1993, (Geneva), ITU,
@uref{http://www.itu.int/,,ITU-T Telecommunication Standardization Sector of ITU}, 
(Previously ``CCITT Recommendation'').
@item [5] @anchor{Q.704} @tab @uref{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-Q.704/,ITU-T Recommendation Q.704},
@cite{Message Transfer Part---Signalling Network Functions and Messages},
March 1993, (Geneva), ITU,
@uref{http://www.itu.int/,,ITU-T Telecommunication Standardization Sector of ITU}, 
(Previously ``CCITT Recommendation'').
@item [6] @anchor{CDIAPI} @tab
Geoffrey Gerrietts; Dave Grothe, Mikel Matthews, Dave Healy,
@cite{CDI---Application Program Interface Guide},
March 1999,
(Savoy, IL),
GCOM, Inc.
@item [7] @anchor{Q.771} @tab @uref{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-Q.771/,ITU-T Recommendation Q.771},
@cite{Signalling System No. 7---Functional Description of Transaction Capabilities},
March 1993, (Geneva), ITU,
@uref{http://www.itu.int/,,ITU-T Telecommunication Standardization Sector of ITU}, 
(Previously ``CCITT Recommendation'').
@end multitable

@ifnotplaintext
@c skip indexes for plain text (regex search works better)
@c @iftex
@c @node Indices
@c @unnumbered Indices
@c @end iftex

@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for html and info
@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp
@c @end ifnottex

@c @iftex
@c @menu
@c * Concept Index::
@c * Protocol State Index::
@c * Primitive Index::
@c * Primitive Structure and Type Index::
@c * Primitive Structure Field Index::
@c * Primitive Values Index::
@c * Primitive Error Values Index::
@c * Input-Output Control Index::
@c * MIB Object Index::
@c * Manual Page Index::
@c @end menu
@c 
@c @node Concept Index
@c @section Concept Index
@c @printindex cp
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Protocol State Index
@c @section Protocol State Index
@c @printindex st
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Index
@c @section Primitive Index
@c @printindex pr
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Structure and Type Index
@c @section Primitive Structure and Type Index
@c @printindex tp
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Structure Field Index
@c @section Primitive Structure Field Index
@c @printindex vr
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Values Index
@c @section Primitive Values Index
@c @printindex pv
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Error Values Index
@c @section Primitive Error Values Index
@c @printindex pe
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Input-Output Control Index
@c @section Input-Output Control Index
@c @printindex ct
@c 
@c @page
@c @node MIB Object Index
@c @section MIB Object Index
@c @printindex mo
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Manual Page Index
@c @section Manual Page Index
@c @printindex mp
@c @end iftex
@end ifnotplaintext

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye
