'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: listen.3.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-28 22:33:29 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 22:33:29 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: listen.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-28 22:33:29  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/03 13:53:04  brian
.\" - changes to pass make check target
.\" - added some package config.h files
.\" - removed AUTOCONFIG_H from Makefile.am's
.\" - source code changes for compile
.\" - added missing manual pages
.\" - renamed conflicting manual pages
.\" - parameterized include Makefile.am
.\" - updated release notes
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/08/29 11:40:56  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:44:44  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strsock.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strsock.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH LISTEN 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B listen
\- listen for socket connections and limit the queue of incoming connections
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.HP
.BI "int listen(int " socket ", int " backlog );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The function takes the following arguments:
.TP
.I socket
Specifies the file descriptor associated with the socket upon which to listen.
.TP
.I backlog
Specifies the maximum number of queued (backlogged) connection indications that
should be permitted to wait.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR listen ()
function marks a connection-mode socket, specified by the
.I socket
argument, as accepting connections.
.PP
The
.I backlog
argument provides a hint to the implementation which the
implementation will use to limit the number of outstanding connections in the
socket's listen queue. Normally, a larger
.I backlog
argument value will result
in a larger or equal length of the listen queue.
.PP
The implementation may include incomplete connections in its listen queue. The
limits on the number of incomplete connections and completed connections
queued may be different.
.PP
The implementation may have an upper limit on the length of the listen
queue\(emeither global or per accepting socket.  If
.I backlog
exceeds this limit, the
length of the listen queue is set to the limit.
.PP
If
.BR listen ()
is called with a
.I backlog
argument value that is less than 0, the
function behaves as if it had been called with a
.I backlog
argument value of 0.
.PP
A
.I backlog
argument of 0 may allow the
.I socket
to accept connections, in which
case the length of the listen queue may be set to an implementation-dependent
minimum value.
.PP
The
.I socket
in use may require the process to have appropriate privileges to
use the
.BR listen ()
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
This system call is implemented as a
.B SIOCSOCKSYS
IOCTL.  See
.BR socksys (4)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completions,
.BR listen ()
returns 0. Otherwise, -1 is returned and
errno is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The
.BR listen ()
function will fail if:
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
The
.I socket
argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ EDESTADDRREQ ]
The
.I socket
is not bound to a local address, and the protocol does not support
listening on an unbound
.IR socket .
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The
.I socket
is already connected.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTSOCK ]
The
.I socket
argument does not refer to a socket.
.TP
.RB [ EOPNOTSUPP ]
The
.I socket
protocol does not support
.BR listen ()
.PP
The
.BR listen ()
function may fail if:
.TP
.RB [ EACCES ]
The calling process does not have the appropriate privileges.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The
.I socket
has been shut down.
.TP
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
Insufficient resources are available in the system to complete the call.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR accept (3),
.BR connect (3),
.BR socket (3),
.BR <sys/socket.h> (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This function and sockets implementation is compatible to
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
including
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Where 4BSD differs from POSIX, this function follows POSIX.
.[
susv3
.]
.PP
See
.BR sockets (3)
and
.BR socklib (3)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
The Open Group XNS Issue 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Most sockets functions first appeared in
.IR "4BSD" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
