'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sockets.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/08/29 11:40:56 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/08/29 11:40:56 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sockets.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/08/29 11:40:56  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:44:44  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strsock.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strsock.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH SOCKETS 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B libsocket, sockets
\- Linux Fast-STREAMS Sockets Library
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.HP 12
.BI "int accept(int " socket ", struct sockaddr *" address ", socklen_t *" address_len );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int bind(int " socket ", const struct sockaddr *" address ", socklen_t " address_len );
.HP
.BI "int connect(int " socket ", const struct sockaddr *" address ", socklen_t " address_len );
.HP
.BI "int getpeername(int " socket ", struct sockaddr *" address ", socklen_t *" address_len );
.HP
.BI "int getsockname(int " socket ", struct sockaddr *" address ", socklen_t *" address_len );
.HP
.BI "int getsockopt(int " socket ", int " level ", int " option_name ", void *" option_value ", socklen_t *" option_len );
.HP
.BI "int listen(int " socket ", int " backlog );
.HP
.BI "ssize_t recv(int " socket ", void *" buffer ", size_t " length ", int " flags );
.HP
.BI "ssize_t recvfrom(int " socket ", void *" buffer ", size_t " length ", int " flags ", struct sockaddr *" address ", socklen_t *" address_len );
.HP
.BI "ssize_t recvmsg(int " socket ", struct msghdr *" message ", int " flags );
.HP
.BI "ssize_t send(int " socket ", const void *" buffer ", size_t " length ", int " flags );
.HP
.BI "ssize_t sendmsg(int " socket ", const struct msghdr *" message ", int " flags );
.HP
.BI "ssize_t sendto(int " socket ", const void *" message ", size_t " length ", int " flags ", const struct sockaddr *" dest_addr ", socklen_t " dest_len );
.HP
.BI "int setsockopt(int " socket ", int " level ", int " option_name ", const void *" option_value ", socklen_t " option_len );
.HP
.BI "int shutdown(int " socket ", int " how );
.HP
.BI "int socket(int " domain ", int " type ", int " protocol );
.HP
.BI "int socketpair(int " domain ", int " type ", int " protocol ", int " socket_vector[2] );
.PD
.ad b
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B libsocket
is a Linux
.IR STREAMS (4)
socket library that uses the
.BR sockmod (4)
module or
.BR socksys (4)
driver.
It implements the following sockets API library functions:
.TP \w'\fBgetsockname\fR(3)\ 'u
.BR accept (3)
accept a new connection on a socket
.PD 0
.TP
.BR bind (3)
bind a name to a socket.
.TP
.BR connect (3)
connnect a socket.
.TP
.BR getpeername (3)
get the name of the peer socket.
.TP
.BR getsockname (3)
get the socket name.
.TP
.BR getsockopt (3)
get the socket options.
.TP
.BR listen (3)
listen for socket connections and limit the queue of incoming connections.
.TP
.BR recv (3)
receive a message from a connected socket.
.TP
.BR recvfrom (3)
receive a message from a socket.
.TP
.BR recvmsg (3)
receive a message from a socket.
.TP
.BR send (3)
send a message on a socket.
.TP
.BR sendmsg (3)
send a message on a socket using a message structure.
.TP
.BR sendto (3)
sned a message on a socket.
.TP
.BR setsockopt (3)
set the socket options.
.TP
.BR shutdown (3)
shut down socket send and receive operations.
.TP
.BR socket (3)
create an endpoint for communications.
.TP
.BR socketpair (3)
create a pair of connected sockets.
.PD
.PP
See the associated manual page in section 3 of the manual for descriptions of
the socket API functions.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
There are three traditional approaches to providing sockets over
.I STREAMS
as follows:
.\"
.\"
.SS SVR 3.2 Approach
The
.I SVR 3.2
.[
svr3
.]
approach consists of
a user-space library that performs most of the conversion between
.BR npi (7)
or
.BR tpi (7)
Streams and the sockets API using a cooperating
.BR sockmod (4)
.I STREAMS
module and the
.I SI_
input-output controls and other
.I STREAMS
facilities such as
.BR streamio (7),
.BR getmsg (2)
and
.BR putmsg (2).
.PP
Socket state information is maintained in user-space data structures
associated with each active file descriptor in a manner similar to the
.BR libxnet (3)
XTI/TLI library.
All socket API calls are implemented mostly in the user-space library with
some input-output control calls to
.BR sockmod (4).
.PP
This library approach uses the
.B /etc/netconfig
configuration file to map
.BR socket (3)
parameters onto
.I STREAMS
pseudo-devices within the library.
.PP
This approach is problematic for handling threaded programs and issues during
.BR fork (2).
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implements compatibile
.I SI_
input-output controls in the
.BR sockmod (4)
module and the
.BR socksys (4)
driver, and provides a usable
.B /etc/netconfig
file, to support older binaries statically compiled against such a library;
but it does not implement such a library directly.
.PP
See
.BR sockmod (4)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SS SVR 4 Approach
The
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
approach consists of
a user-space library that performs few conversions between
.BR tpi (7)
Streams and the sockets API using a cooperating
.BR sockmod (4)
.I STREAMS
module and the
.I SIOCSOCKSYS
input-output control with
.I SO_
commands.
.PP
Socket state information is maintained in kernel data structures
associated with each Stream.
All socket API calls are implemented as emulated system calls using
.B SIOCSOCKSYS
input-output control calls to
.BR sockmod (4).
.PP
This library approach also uses the
.B /etc/netconfig
configuration file to map
.BR socket (3)
parameters onto
.I STREAMS
pseudo-devices within the library.
This approach does not support
.BR npi (7)
Streams.
.PP
This approach is less problematic from the point of view that state
information is maintained within the kernel instead of the library; however,
use of
.I SIOCSOCKSYS
input-output controls for each socket API call is not very efficient on older
kernels.
The
.BR sockmod (4)
module is still used and still supports the older
.I SI_
input-output controls for backward compatibility with the
.I SVR 3.2
.[
svr3
.]
approach above.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implements this approach for
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
which is incapable of the more sophisticated approach below.
.PP
See
.BR sockmod (4)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SS \fISolaris\fP\(rg \fI6\fP Approach
The
.IR Solaris "\(rg " 6
.[
soldoc
.]
approach consists of
a user-space library that performs almost no conversions between
.BR tpi (7)
Streams and the sockets API using a special
.BR sockfs (5)
filesystem and a special
.B so_create
system call beneath
.BR socket (3).
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package emulates the
.B so_create
system call as an input-output control against the
.BR socksys (4)
driver.
.PP
Socket state information is maintained in kernel data structures
associated with each Stream.
All socket API calls (with the exception of
.BR socket (3))
are implemented as system calls.
.PP
This library approach uses the
.B /etc/sock2path
configuration file and the
.BR soconfig (8)
utility to create socket to stream mappings within the kernel.
This approach does not support
.BR npi (7)
Streams.
.PP
Aside from the method used to create a socket, this method is
indistinguishable from native
.B Linux
sockets and is the preferred approach.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
uses this approach under
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
which is capable of supporting it.
.PP
See
.BR socksys (4)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH CAVEATS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
Upon success, most sockets API library functions return zero (0) or a positive
integer reflecting a returned parameter value.
Upon failure,
sockets API library functions return -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to an applicable error number.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH "ERROR HANDLING"
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The errors that can be returned by socket API library calls are detailed in
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR accept (3),
.BR bind (3),
.BR connect (3),
.BR getpeername (3),
.BR getsockname (3),
.BR getsockopt (3),
.BR listen (3),
.BR recv (3),
.BR recvfrom (3),
.BR recvmsg (3),
.BR send (3),
.BR sendmsg (3),
.BR sendto (3),
.BR setsockopt (3),
.BR shutdown (3),
.BR socket (3),
.BR socketpair (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The sockets API library has been tested with the
.BR test-sock (8)
and
.BR test-sock_thr (8)
conformance test suites.
.PP
The sockets API library has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The sockets API library functions are compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
.IR "XNS 5.2" ,
.[
xns
.]
.IR SUSv2 ,
.[
susv2
.]
.IR POSIX/SUSv3 .
.[
susv3
.]
.PP
Compatibility is tested using the
.BR test-sock (8)
and
.BR test-sock_thr (8)
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
.IR "The Open Group XNS Issue 5.2" ,
.[
xns
.]
.IR "Single UNIX\(rg Specification Version 2" ,
.[
susv2
.]
.IR "Single UNIX\(rg Specification Version 3" .
.[
susv3
.]
.PP
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-sock (8)
and
.BR test-sock_thr (8)
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Sockets API interface first appeared in
.BR SVR4 .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for the OpenSS7 Sockets Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
