@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: compat.texi,v 0.9.2.36 2008-04-11 16:58:55 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-11 16:58:55 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node GNU/Linux Distributions
@subsection GNU/Linux Distributions
@cindex GNU/Linux Distributions

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is compatible with the following @dfn{Linux}
distributions:@footnote{Items marked as @samp{TBD} are scheduled to have support deprecated.  That
is, in a future release, the distributions marked @samp{TBD} will not longer be validated before
release.}

@itemize @bullet
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 3.4 (centos34)
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 4.0 (centos4)
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 4.92 (centos49)
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 5.0 (centos5)
@item Debian 3.0r2 Woody (deb3.0) -- TBD
@item Debian 3.1r0a Sarge (deb3.1)
@item Debian 4.0r1 Etch (deb4.0)
@item Fedora Core 1 (FC1) -- TBD
@item Fedora Core 2 (FC2) -- TBD
@item Fedora Core 3 (FC3) -- TBD
@item Fedora Core 4 (FC4) -- TBD
@item Fedora Core 5 (FC5)
@item Fedora Core 6 (FC6)
@item Fedora 7 (FC7)
@item Fedora 8 (FC8)
@item Gentoo 2006.1 (untested)
@item Gentoo 2007.1 (untested)
@item Lineox 4.026 (LEL4) -- TBD
@item Lineox 4.053 (LEL4)
@item Mandrakelinux 9.2 (MDK92) -- TBD
@item Mandrakelinux 10.0 (MDK100) -- TBD
@item Mandrakelinux 10.1 (MDK101) -- TBD
@item Mandriva Linux LE2005 (MDK102) -- TBD
@item Mandriva Linux LE2006 (MDK103)
@item Mandriva One (untested)
@item RedHat Linux 7.2 (RH7)
@item RedHat Linux 7.3 (RH7)
@item RedHat Linux 8.0 (RH8) -- TBD
@item RedHat Linux 9 (RH9) -- TBD
@item RedHat Enterprise Linux 3.0 (EL3)
@item RedHat Enterprise Linux 4 (EL4)
@item RedHat Enterprise Linux 5 (EL5)
@item SuSE 8.0 Professional (SuSE8.0) -- TBD
@item SuSE 9.1 Personal (SuSE9.1) -- TBD
@item SuSE 9.2 Professional (SuSE9.2) -- TBD
@item SuSE OpenSuSE (SuSEOSS)
@item SuSE 10.0 (SuSE10.0)
@item SuSE 10.1 (SuSE10.1)
@item SuSE 10.2 (SuSE10.2)
@item SuSE 10.3 (SuSE10.3)
@item SLES 9 (SLES9)
@item SLES 9 SP2 (SLES9)
@item SLES 9 SP3 (SLES9)
@item SLES 10 (SLES10)
@item Ubuntu 5.10 (ubu5.10)
@item Ubuntu 6.03 LTS (ubu6.03)
@item Ubuntu 6.10 (ubu6.10)
@item Ubuntu 7.04 (ubu7.04)
@item Ubuntu 7.10 (ubu7.10)
@item WhiteBox Enterprise Linux 3.0 (WBEL3)
@item WhiteBox Enterprise Linux 4 (WBEL4)
@end itemize

When installing from the tarball (@pxref{Installing the Tar Ball}), this distribution is probably
compatible with a  much broader array of distributions than those listed above.  These are the
distributions against which the current maintainer creates and tests builds.

@node Linux Kernel
@subsection Kernel
@cindex Kernel

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package compiles as a @dfn{Linux} kernel module.  It is not
necessary to patch the @dfn{Linux} kernel to build or use the package.@footnote{At a later date, it
is possible to move this package into the kernel, however, with continued resistance to STREAMS from
within the @dfn{Linux} developer community, this is currently unlikely.} Nor do you have to
recompile your kernel to build or use the package.  OpenSS7 packages use @command{autoconf} scripts
to adapt the package source to your existing kernel.  The package builds and runs nicely against
production kernels from the distributions listed above.  Rather than relying on kernel versions, the
@command{autoconf} scripts interrogate the kernel for specific features and variants to better adapt
to distribution production kernels that have had patches applied over the official
@url{http://www.kernel.org/, kernel.org} sources.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is compatible with 2.4 kernel series after 2.4.10 and has
been tested up to and including 2.4.27.  It has been tested from 2.6.3 up to and including 2.6.22
(with Fedora 7 patchsets).  Please note that your mileage may vary if you use a kernel more
recent than 2.6.22: it is difficult to anticipate changes that kernel developers will make in the
future.  Many kernels in the 2.6 series now vary widely by release version and if you encounter
problems, try a kernel within the supported series.

UP validation testing for kernels is performed on all supported architectures.  SMP validation
testing is performed on UP machines, as well as on an Intel 3.0GHz Pentium IV 630 with
HyperThreading enabled.  Because HyperThreading is not as independent as multiple CPUs, SMP
validation testing is limited.

It should be noted that, while the packages will configure, build and install against XEN kernels,
that problems running validation test suites against XEN kernels has been reported.  @emph{XEN
kernels are explicitly not supported.}  This may change at some point in the future if someone
really requires running OpenSS7 under a XEN kernel.

@node Linux Architectures
@subsection Architectures
@cindex Architectures

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package compiles and installs on a wide range of architectures.
Although it is believed that the package will work on all architectures supported by the Linux
kernel being used, validation testing has only been performed with the following architectures:

@itemize
@item ix86
@item x86_64
@item ppc (MPC 860)
@item ppc64
@end itemize

32-bit compatibility validation testing is performed on all 64-bit architectures supporting 32-bit
compatibility.  If you would like to validate an OpenSS7 package on a specific machine architecture,
you are welcome to sponsor the project with a test machine.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
