'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: A_ABORT_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/11/06 11:43:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/06 11:43:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: A_ABORT_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:21  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH A_ABORT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "X/Open ASCE/Presentation (XAP)"
.SH NAME
.B A_ABORT_REQ
\- used to abort an association
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.HP
.B int ap_snd(
.br
.BI "int " fd ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long " sptype ,
.br
.BI "ap_cdata_t *" cdata ,
.br
.BI "ap_osi_vbuf_t *" ubuf ,
.br
.BI "int " flags ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B A_ABORT_REQ
primitive is used in conjunction with
.BR ap_snd (3)
and the XAP Library environment to request the abnormal release of an
assocation.
.PP
See
.BR ap_snd (3)
for information concerning the effects of sending the
.B A_ABORT_REQ
primitive and restrictions on its use.
.PP
To send an
.B A_ABORT_REQ
primitive, the arguments to
.BR ap_snd (3)
must be set as described below:
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGMENTS
.TP
.I fd
This argument identifies the XAP Library instance being used.
.TP
.I sptype
This argumnet must be set to
.BR AP_A_ABORT_REQ .
.TP
.I cdata
The following members of
.I cdata
are used for this primitive:
.RS
.TP
.I udata_length
The length of user-information field of the APDU.
.RE
.sp
Where this primitive is to be sent using a series of calls to
.BR ap_snd (3)
with the
.B AP_MORE
flag set,
.I cdata->udata_length
should be set to the total number of octets of encoded user data that will be
sent with this primtimive.  If the total number of octets of encoded user data
is not known this filed may be set to -1.  However, in some XAP
implementations setting this field to -1 may significantly degrade performance
as it requires the implementation to buffer data until a complete SPDU can be
transmitted.
.sp
The total number of octets of encoded user data that can be sent with this
primtiive may be subject to an implementation dependent restriction.  Any such
restriction will be stated in the CSQ for an implementation.
.TP
.I ubuf
Use of the
.I ubuf
argument is described in the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3).
.TP
.I flags
The
.I flags
arguemnt is used to control certain aspects of primitive processing as defined
in the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3).
.TP
.I aperrno_p
This must point to a location which iwill be set to an error code if a failure
occurs.
.\"
.\"
.SH RULES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH MODES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
