'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: A_ASSOC_CNF.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-16 20:04:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-16 20:04:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: A_ASSOC_CNF.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-16 20:04:22  brian
.\" - updating APLI manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:24  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH A_ASSOC_CNF 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "ACSE/Presentation Library Interface (APLI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B A_ASSOC_CNF
\- indicate an ACSE A-ASSOCIATE confirmation
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.HP
.B int ap_rcv(
.br
.BI "int " fd ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" sptype ,
.br
.BI "ap_cdata_t *" cdata ,
.br
.BI "ap_osi_vbuf_t **" ubuf ,
.br
.BI "int *" flags ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B A_ASSOC_CNF
primitive is used in conjunction with
.BR ap_rcv (3)
and the XAP Library environment to confirm the establishment of an association
between two application entities.
.PP
Refer to the table in the manual page description for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
for information concerning the effects of receiving the
.B A_ASSOC_CNF
primitive and restrictions on its use.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
When issuing
.BR ap_rcv (3),
the arguments must be set as described in the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3).
Upon return, the
.BR ap_rcv (3)
arguments will be set as described below.
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fP\(em'u
.I fd
This argument, returned from a call to
.BR ap_open (3),
identifies the APLI or XAP Library instance being used.
.TP
.I sptype
The
.B unsinged long
pointed to by this argument will be set to
.BR AP_A_ASSOC_CNF .
.TP
.I cdata
The following members of
.I cdata
are used for this primitive:
.RS
.RS 4
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
long res;               /* result of request      */
long res_src;           /* source of result       */
long diag;              /* reason (if rejected)   */
ap_a_assoc_env_t *env;  /* environment attributes */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
.I cdata->res
will be set to indicate the result of the association request.  The possible
values for
.I cdata->res
are as follows:
.TP \w'\fBAP_TRAN_SERV_PROV\fP\(em'u
.B AP_ACCEPT
Accept the association.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_REJ_PERM
Association permanently rejected.
.TP
.B AP_REJ_TRAN
Association temporarily rejected.
.PD
.PP
The argument
.I cdata->res_src
indicates the source of the result and will be one of the following:
.TP \w'\fBAP_TRAN_SERV_PROV\fP\(em'u
.B AP_ACSE_SERV_USER
ACSE service user.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_ACSE_SERV_PROV
ACSE service provider.
.TP
.B AP_PRES_SERV_PROV
Presentation service provider.
.TP
.B AP_SESS_SERV_PROV
Session service provider.
.TP
.B AP_TRAN_SERV_PROV
Transport service provider.
.PD
.PP
The argument
.I cdata->diag
is not meaningful when the value of
.I cdata->res
is
.BR AP_ACCEPT .
When the value of
.I cdata->res
is either
.BR AP_REJ_PERM " or " AP_REJ_TRAN ,
the possible values for this argument depend upon the source of the result.
If the source of the result is
.BR AP_ACSE_SERV_USER ,
.I cdata->diag
will be one of the following:
.TP \w'\fBAP_LCL_LIM_EXCEEDED\fP\(em'u
.B AP_CLD_AEID_NREC
Called AE invocation identifier not recognized.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_CLD_AEQ_NREC
Called AE qualifier not recognized.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_APID_NREC
Called AP invocation identifier not recognized.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_APT_NREC
Called AP Title not recognized.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_AEID_NREC
Calling AE invocation identifier not recognized.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_AEQ_NREC
Calling AE qualifier not recognized.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_APID_NREC
Calling AP invocation identifier not recognized.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_APT_NREC
Calling AP Title not recognized.
.TP
.B AP_CNTX_NAME_NSUP
Calling application context name not supported.
.TP
.B AP_NRSN
No reason given.
.TP
.B AP_NULL
Null.
.PD
.PP
If the source of the result is
.BR AP_ACSE_SERV_PROV ,
.I cdata->diag
will be one of:
.TP \w'\fBAP_LCL_LIM_EXCEEDED\fP\(em'u
.B AP_NCMN_ACSE_VER
No common version of the ACSE supported.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_NRSN
No reason given.
.TP
.B AP_NULL
Null.
.PD
.PP
If the source of the result is
.BR AP_PRES_SERV_PROV ,
.I cdata->diag
will be one of:
.TP \w'\fBAP_LCL_LIM_EXCEEDED\fP\(em'u
.B AP_CLD_PADDR_UNK
Called presentation address unknown.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_DFCN_NSUP
Default context not supported.
.TP
.B AP_DIAG_NOVAL
No value was specified for this optional parameter.
.TP
.B AP_LCL_LIM_EXCEEDED
Local limit exceeded.
.TP
.B AP_NO_PSAP_AVAIL
No PSAP available.
.TP
.B AP_NRSN
No reason given.
.TP
.B AP_NULL
Null.
.TP
.B AP_PRES_VER_NSUP
Protocol version not supported.
.TP
.B AP_SESS_PROV
Could not establish session connection.
.TP
.B AP_TEMP_CONGESTION
Temporary congestion.
.TP
.B AP_UDATA_NREAD
User data not readable.
.PD
.PP
If the source of the result is
.BR AP_SESS_SERV_PROV ,
.I cdata->diag
will be one of:
.TP \w'\fBAP_LCL_LIM_EXCEEDED\fP\(em'u
.B AP_CLD_SADDR_UNK
Called session address unknown.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_NRSN
No reason given.
.TP
.B AP_NULL
Null.
.TP
.B AP_SESS_PICS_ERROR
Implementation restriction state in the PICS.
.TP
.B AP_SESS_VER_NSUP
Proposed protocol versions not supported.
.TP
.B AP_SPM_CONGESTION
SPM congestion at connect time.
.TP
.B AP_SSUSER_NATT
SS-user not attached to SSAP.
.TP
.B AP_TRAN_PROV
Could not establish transport connection.
.PD
.PP
If the source of the result is
.BR AP_TRAN_SERV_PROV ,
.I cdata->diag
will be one of:
.TP \w'\fBAP_LCL_LIM_EXCEEDED\fP\(em'u
.B AP_CLD_TADDR_UNK
Called transport address unknown.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_DUPSRCREF
Duplicate source reference for the same pair of NSAPs.
.TP
.B AP_HPLENINV
Head or parameter length invalid.
.TP
.B AP_MISMATCHREF
Mismatched references.
.TP
.B AP_NORMDISCON
Normal disconnect initiated by the TS-user.
.TP
.B AP_NRSN
No reason given.
.TP
.B AP_REFONNETCON
Connection refused on this network connection.
.TP
.B AP_REFOVERFLOW
Reference overflow.
.TP
.B AP_TE_CONGESTION
Remote transport entity congestion at connect request time.
.TP
.B AP_TRAN_NEGFAIL
Connection negotiation failed (e.g., proposed classes not supported).
.TP
.B AP_TRAN_PERROR
Transport protocol error.
.TP
.B AP_TSAP_CONGESTION
Congestion at TSAP.
.TP
.B AP_TSUSER_NATT
Session entity not attached to TSAP.
.PD
.PP
If the
.RI \(lq X.410-1984 \(rq
mode of operation is in effect (i.e., the
.B AP_X410_MODE
bit of
.B AP_MODE_SEL
is set), the
.I cdata->diag
argument will be set to
.B AP_DIAG_NOVAL
by the library.
.PP
The
.I cdata->env
argument can be used to retrieve the values of the XAP environment attributes
that correspond to parameters of the A-ASSOCIATE confirmation service.  If the
.B AP_COPYENV
attribute in the XAP environment is
.IR false ,
these values will not be returned in the
.I cdata
argument and
.I cdata->env
will be set to
.BR NULL
when
.BR ap_rcv (3)
returns.  If
.B AP_COPYENV
is
.IR true ,
the XAP library will allocate a
.B ap_a_assoc_env_t
structure and any necessary substructures and return a pointer to it in
.IR cdata->env .
The caller can release the storage allocated for the
.B ap_a_assoc_env_t
structure and its substructures by passing a pointer to
.I cdata
to
.BR ap_free (3).
The following elements of the
.B ap_a_assoc_env_t
structure are used for this primitive:
.RS 4
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
unsigned long mask;             /* bit mask         */
ap_objid_t cntx_name;           /* AP_CNTX_NAME     */
ap_aei_api_id_t rsp_aeid;       /* AP_RSP_AEID      */
ap_aeq_t rsp_aeq;               /* AP_RSP_AEQ       */
ap_aei_api_id_t rsp_apid;       /* AP_RSP_APID      */
ap_apt_t rsp_apt;               /* AP_RSP_APT       */
ap_paddr_t rem_paddr;           /* AP_REM_PADDR     */
ap_cdrl_t pcdrl;                /* AP_PCDRL         */
long dpcr;                      /* AP_DPCR          */
ap_qos_t qos;                   /* AP_QOS           */
unsigned long a_version_sel;    /* AP_ACSE_SEL      */
unsigned long p_version_sel;    /* AP_PRES_SEL      */
unsigned long s_version_sel;    /* AP_SESS_SEL      */
unsigned long afu_sel;          /* AP_AFU_SEL       */
unsigned long pfu_sel;          /* AP_PFU_SEL       */
unsigned long sfu_sel;          /* AP_SFU_SEL       */
ap_conn_id_t *cld_conn_id;      /* AP_CLD_CONN_ID   */
unsigned long init_sync_pt;     /* AP_INIT_SYNC_PT  */
unsigned long init_tokens;      /* AP_INIT_TOKENS   */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.I mask
element of this structure is a bit maks indicating which parameters associated
with this primitive were received.  Values for this field are formed by OR'ing
together zero or more of the flags listed in the table below.  When a bit is
set, the specified parameter was received.  Otherwise, the parameter was not
received and the corresponding field in the
.B ap_a_assoc_env_t
structure is not set.
.PP
.TS
center box tab(:);
cb|cb|cb
lb|l|li.
flag:parameter:field
_
AP_CNTX_NAME_BIT:Application Context Name:cntx_name
AP_RSP_AEID_BIT:Responding AE Invocation-identifier:rsp_aeid
AP_RSP_AEQ_BIT:Responding AE Qualifier:rsp_aeq
AP_RSP_APID_BIT:Responding AP Invocation-identifier:rsp_apid
AP_RSP_APT_BIT:Responding AP Title:rsp_apt
AP_REM_PADDR_BIT:Called Presentation Address:rem_paddr
AP_PCDRL_BIT:Presentation Context Defintion Result List:pcdrl
AP_DPCR_BIT:Default Presentation Context Result List:dpcr
AP_QOS_BIT:Quality of Service:qos
AP_A_VERSION_SEL_BIT:ACSE Version Selector:a_version_sel
AP_P_VERSION_SEL_BIT:Presentation Version Selector:p_version_sel
AP_S_VERSION_SEL_BIT:Session Version Selector:s_version_sel
AP_AFU_SEL_BIT:ACSE Requirements:afu_sel
AP_PFU_SEL_BIT:Presentation Requirements:pfu_sel
AP_SFU_SEL_BIT:Session Requirements:sfu_sel
AP_CLD_CONN_ID_BIT:Session-connection identifier:clg_conn_id
AP_INIT_SYNC_PT_BIT:Initial Synch. Serial Point Number:init_sync_pt
AP_INIT_TOKENS_BIT:Initial Token Assignment:init_tokens
.TE
.RE
.TP
.I ubuf
Use of the
.I ubuf
argument is described in the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3).
.RS
.PP
If the
.RI \(lq X.410-1984 \(rq
mode of operation is in effect (i.e., the
.B AP_X410_MODE
bit of
.B AP_MODE_SEL
is set), the contents of
.I ubuf
buffer(s) is assumed to be a value of type SET encoded according to the Basic
Encoding Rules for ASN.1.
.[
iso 8825-2
.]
If the association was accepted, the SET value will have an implicit
context-specific tag with a value of 1 (i.e., [1] IMPLICIT).  If the
association was rejected, the SET value is assumed to have been encoded with
the universal SET tag (i.e., [UNIVERSAL 17]).  Refer to the ISO Presentation
Layer protocol definition (reference ISO 8823)
.[
iso 8823
.]
for further information concerning the encoding of these values.
.RE
.TP
.I flags
The
.I flags
argument is used to control certain aspects of primitive processing as
described in the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3).
.TP
.I aperrno_p
The location pointed to by the
.I aperrno_p
argument is set to an error code if failure has occurred.
.\"
.\"
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.PP
The following attributes may changes as a result of receiving the A_ASSOC_CNF
primitive based on information contained in the received APDU associated with
the confirmation:
.BR AP_ACSE_SEL ,
.BR AP_AFU_SEL ,
.BR AP_CNTX_NAME ,
.BR AP_DCS ,
.BR AP_INIT_SYNC_PT ,
.BR AP_INIT_TOKENS ,
.BR AP_PFU_SEL ,
.BR AP_PCDRL ,
.BR AP_PRES_SEL ,
.BR AP_QOS ,
.BR AP_REM_ADDR ,
.BR AP_SESS_SEL ,
.BR AP_SFU_SEL ,
.BR AP_STATE ,
.BR AP_TOKENS_AVAIL ,
.BR AP_TOKENS_OWNED .
.\"
.\"
.SH MODES
.PP
This primitive is valid both in
.RI \(lq Normal \(rq
and
.RI \(lq X.410-1984 \(rq
mode.
.[
x410 1984
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
This primitive is issued by the XAP interface service.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
or XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
specifications.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
or XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
specifications.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Two conformant XAP Library implementations may return different source and
diagnostic combinations under the same conditions.  For example, an
implementation might return either
.BR AP_PRES_SERV_PROV " and " AP_SESS_PROV ,
or
.BR AP_TRAN_SERV_PROV " and " AP_NRSN ,
if an association could not be established because of an unspecified porblem
that occurred while trying to set up the supporting transport connection.
Moreover, because the use of reason codes is not well standardized, an
application may receive different source and diagnostic combinations under the
same conditions when attempting to establish an association to different OSI
implementations through a single XAP Library implementation.  Consequently,
users are cautioned against placing dependencies on specific source and
diagnostic combinations in their applications.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ap_rcv (3),
.BR APLI (3),
.BR XAP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B A_ASSOC_CNF
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B A_ASSOC_CNF
is compatible with APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
and XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and implementations based on APLI and XAP, such as
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
and
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR APLI (3)
and
.BR XAP (3)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
APLI,
.[
apli unix international
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B A_ASSOC_CNF
first appeared in APLI.
.[
apli unix international
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 APLI/XAP Library under the OpenSS7 Project.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
