'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: A_PABORT_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-16 20:04:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-16 20:04:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: A_PABORT_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-16 20:04:22  brian
.\" - updating APLI manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:24  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH A_PABORT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "X/Open ASCE/Presentation (XAP)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B A_PABORT_REQ
\-  initiate a Presentation provider abort
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.HP
.B int ap_snd(
.br
.BI "int " fd ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long " sptype ,
.br
.BI "ap_cdata_t *" cdata ,
.br
.BI "ap_osi_vbuf_t *" ubuf ,
.br
.BI "int " flags ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B A_PABORT_REQ
primitive is used in conjunction with
.BR ap_snd (3)
and the XAP Library environment to initiate a Presentation Layer provider abort.  This facility
gives the user the option of aborting an association from the Presentation provider when an invalid
PDU encoding is encountered.
.PP
Refer to the table in the manual page description for
.BR ap_snd (3)
for information concerning the effects of sending the
.B A_PABORT_REQ
primitive and restrictions on its use.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
To send an
.B A_PABORT_REQ
primitive, the arguments to
.BR ap_snd (3)
must be set as described below.
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fP\(em'u
.I fd
This arugment identifies the XAP Library instance being used.
.TP
.I sptype
This argument must be set to
.BR AP_A_PABORT_REQ .
.TP
.I cdata
The following members of
.I cdata
are used for this primitive:
.RS
.RS 4
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
long rsn;  /* reason for abort        */
long evt;  /* event that caused abort */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
.I cdata->rsn
must be set to indicate the reason for the abort.  The possible values for
.I cdata->rsn
are as follows:
.TP \w'\fBAP_INVAL_PPDU_PARM\fP\(em'u
.B AP_INVAL_PPDU_PARM
Abort due to an invalid presentation protocol data unit parameter.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_NSPEC
The reason for abort is not specified.
.TP
.B AP_RSN_NOVAL
No value was supplied for this optional parameter.
.TP
.B AP_UNEXPT_PPDU
Abort due to an unexpected presentation protocol data unit.
.TP
.B AP_UNEXPT_SSPRIM
Abort dues to an unexpected session service primitive.
.TP
.B AP_UNREC_PPDU
Abort dues to an unrecognized presentation protocol data unit.
.TP
.B AP_UNREC_PPDU_PARM
Abort dues to an unrecognized presentation protocol data unit parameter.
.PD
.PP
The
.I cdata->evt
field indicates which PPDU or Session primitive which triggered the abort.  The possible values for
.I cdata->evt
are as follows:
.TP \w'\fBAP_PEI_S_U_EXCEPT_REP_IND\fP\(em'u
.B AP_EVT_NOVAL
No value was supplied for this optional parameter.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_PEI_AC
Alter context PPDU.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_ACA
Alter context acknowledge PPDU.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_ARP
Abnormal release provider PPDU.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_ARU
Abnormal release user PPDU.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_CP
Connect presentation PPDU.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_CPA
Connect presentation accept PPDU.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_CPR
Connect presentation reject PPDU.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_RS
Resynchronize PPDU.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_RSA
Resynchronize acknowledge PPDU.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_ACT_START_IND
Session activity start indication.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_ACT_RESUME_IND
Session activity resume indication.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_ACT_INT_IND
Session activity interrupt indication.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_ACT_INT_CNF
Session activity interrupt confirmation.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_ACT_DISC_IND
Session activity discard indication.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_ACT_DISC_CNF
Session activity discard confirmation.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_ACT_END_IND
Session activity end indication.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_ACT_END_CNF
Session activity end confirmation.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_P_EXCEPT_REP_IND
Session provider exception report indication.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_U_EXCEPT_REP_IND
Session user exception report indication.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_RELEASE_IND
Session release indication.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_RELEASE_CNF
Session release confirmation.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_SYNCMAJOR_IND
Session syncrhonize-major indication.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_SYNCMAJOR_CNF
Session syncrhonize-major confirmation
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_SYNCMINOR_IND
Session syncrhonize-minor indication.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_SYNCMINOR_CNF
Session syncrhonize-minor confirmation
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_TOKENGIVE_IND
Session token give indication.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_S_TOKENPLEASE_IND
Session token please indication.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_TC
Capability data PPDU.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_TCC
Capability data acknowledge PPDU.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_TD
Presentation data PPDU.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_TE
Expedited data PPDU.
.TP
.B AP_PEI_TTD
Presentation typed data PPDU.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ubuf
Since no data is sent on an
.BR A_PABORT_REQ ,
this value must be
.BR NULL .
.TP
.I flags
Not used.
.TP
.I aperrno_p
This must point to a location that will be set to an error code if a failure occurs.
.\"
.\"
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
This primitive is originated by the XAP interface client.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
This primitive is valid in all states except
.BR AP_UNBOUND " and " AP_IDLE .
.PP
The next state is
.BR AP_IDLE .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3)
in the referenced APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
or XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
specifications.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3)
in the referenced APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
or XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
specifications.
.PP
In addition to those listed in the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3),
the following error codes can be reported for this primitive:
.TP \w'[\fBAP_BADCD_RSN\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ AP_BADCD_EVT ]
The value of
.I cdata->evt
is not valid.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_RSN ]
The value of
.I cdata->rsn
is not valid.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ap_snd (3),
.BR APLI (3),
.BR XAP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B A_PABORT_REQ
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B A_PABORT_REQ
is compatible with APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
and XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and implementations based on APLI and XAP, such as
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
and
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR APLI (3)
and
.BR XAP (3)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
APLI,
.[
apli unix international
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B A_PABORT_REQ
first appeared in APLI.
.[
apli unix international
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 APLI/XAP Library under the OpenSS7
Project.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
