'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: A_RELEASE_CNF.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-25 08:38:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-25 08:38:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: A_RELEASE_CNF.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-25 08:38:28  brian
.\" - working up libraries modules and drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-16 20:04:22  brian
.\" - updating APLI manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:24  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH A_RELEASE_CNF 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "ACSE/Presentation Library Interface (APLI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B A_RELEASE_CNF
\-  used to confirm an ACSE A-RELEASE request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.HP
.B int ap_rcv(
.br
.BI "int " fd ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" sptype ,
.br
.BI "ap_cdata_t *" cdata ,
.br
.BI "ap_osi_vbuf_t **" ubuf ,
.br
.BI "int *" flags ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B A_RELEASE_CNF
primitive is used in conjunction with
.BR ap_rcv (3)
and the XAP Library environment to confirm the acceptance or rejection of a previously sent release
request.
.PP
Refer to the table in the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
for information concerning the effects of receiving the
.B A_RELEASE_CNF primitive and restrictions on its use.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
When issuing
.BR ap_rcv (3),
the arguments must be set as described in the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3).
Upon return, the
.BR ap_rcv (3)
arguments will be set as described below:
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fP\(em'u
.I fd
This argument, returned from a call to
.BR ap_open (3),
identifies the APLI or XAP Library instance being used.
.TP
.I sptype
The
.B unsinged long
pointed to by this argument will be set to
.BR AP_A_RELEASE_CNF .
.TP
.I cdata
The following members of
.I cdata
are used for this primitive:
.RS
.RS 4
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
long res;  /* result of the release request */
long rsn;  /* reason for the result         */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
.I cdata->res
will be set to indicate the result of the release request.  The possible values for
.I cdata->res
are as follows:
.TP \w'\fBAP_REL_NOTFINISHED\fP\(em'u
.B AP_REL_AFFIRM
Indicates acceptance of the release request.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_REL_NEGATIVE
Indicates rejection of the release request.  Note that this value will only b set if the Session
negotiated release functional unit is selected.
.PD
.PP
The reason associated with the result will be indicated by
.IR cdata->rsn.
The possible values for
.I cdata->rns
are as follows:
.TP \w'\fBAP_REL_NOTFINISHED\fP\(em'u
.B AP_REL_NORMAL
Indicates a normal release.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_REL_NOTFINISHED
Indicates the remote user was not finished.
.TP
.B AP_REL_USER_DEF
Indicates a user defined reason.
.TP
.B AP_RSN_NOVAL
No value was supplied for this optional parameter.
.PD
.PP
Providing a reason for the response to the release request is optional.  If the remote user chose
not to supply a reason,
.I cdata->rsn
will be set to
.BR AP_RSN_NOVAL .
.PP
If
.RI \(lq X.410-1984 \(rq
mode of operation is in effect (i.e., the
.B AP_X410_MODE
bit of
.B AP_MODE_SEL
is set), the
.I cdata->rsn
argument will be set to
.BR AP_RSN_NOVAL
by the library.
.RE
.TP
.I ubuf
Use of the
.I ubuf
argument is described in the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3).
.TP
.I flags
The
.I flags
argument is used to control certain aspects of primitive processing as
described in the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3).
.TP
.I aperrno_p
The location pointed to by the
.I aperrno_p
argument is set to an error code if failure has occurred.
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
The following attributes may change as a result of receiving the
.B A_RELEASE_CNF
primitive based on information contained in the received APDU associated with
the confirmation:
.BR AP_STATE .
.\"
.\"
.SH MODES
.PP
This primitive is valid both in
.RI \(lq Normal \(rq
and
.RI \(lq X.410-1984 \(rq
mode.
.[
x410 1984
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
This primitive is issued by the XAP interface service.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
The
.B A_RELEASE_CNF
primitive is only issued by the AP provider in the
.BR AP_WRELcnf_RELreq " or " AP_WRELcnf_RELreq_rsp
states.
.PP
The new state of the XAP instance from the
.BR AP_WRELcnf_RELreq
state is
.BR AP_IDLE
when the release was affirmed and
.BR AP_DATA_XFER
when the release was refused.
From the
.BR AP_WRELcnf_RELres_rsp
state is
.BR AP_WREPrsp_RELind .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
or XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
specifications.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
or XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
specifications.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ap_rcv (3),
.BR APLI (3),
.BR XAP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B A_RELEASE_CNF
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B A_RELEASE_CNF
is compatible with APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
and XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and implementations based on APLI and XAP, such as
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
and
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR APLI (3)
and
.BR XAP (3)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
APLI,
.[
apli unix international
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B A_RELEASE_CNF
first appeared in APLI.
.[
apli unix international
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 APLI/XAP Library under the OpenSS7 Project.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
