'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: AP_RO_INVOKE_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/11/06 11:43:20 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/06 11:43:20 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: AP_RO_INVOKE_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:20  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_RO_INVOKE_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.SH NAME
.B AP_RO_INVOKE_REQ
\- request the start of an XAP-ROSE remote operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XAP,
.[
XAP ACSE
.]
XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap_rose.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_snd(int " fd ", unsigned long " sptype ", ap_ro_cdata_t *" cdata ", ap_osi_vbuf_t *" ubuf ", int " flags ", unsigned long *" aperrno_p ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
.TP
.I sptype
.TP
.I cdata
.TP
.I ubuf
.TP
.I flags
.TP
.I aperrno_p
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B AP_RO_INVOKE_REQ
primitive is used with
.BR ap_snd (3)
and the XAP-ROSE environment to request the start of a remote operation.
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p:\fR\(em'u
.I fd:
This integer value refers to the descriptor returned from a previous
.BR ap_open (3)
call.  It identifies the library instance that supports the association.
.TP
.I sptype:
This argument must be set to
.BR AP_RO_INVOKE_REQ .
.TP
.I cdata:
The following members of the
.I cdata
structure are used for this primitive:
.sp
The
.I cdata->pci:
argument must be set to a value representing the presentation context
identifier of a valid abstract syntax contained in the environment variable
.BR AP_RO_PCI_LIST .
The ROSE PDU
.[
x227
.]
will be encoded within a presentation data value identified by the protocol
context identifier.
.sp
Note that the ROSE-specific
.I cdata
structure elements
.I cdata->priority
and
.I cdata->op_class
support an RTSE-based implementation of ROSE which is currently not within the
scope of this API.  They are defined by this specification for future use and
are not currently used.
.sp
The
.I cdata->type
argument signals the form the operation value will be sent in.  If
.I type
is set to
.BR AP_RO_LOCAL ,
the operation value is in local form and is contained as an integer in
.IR cdata->value.local .
If
.I type
is set to
.B AP_RO_GLOBAL ,
the operation value is in global form.  In global form, the operation value
must be contained in the
.B ap_objid_t
structure in
.IR cdata->value.global .
This global operation value should be encoded according to ISO 8825,
.[
ISO 8825
.]
Basic Encoding Rules (BER), as an object identifier.
.sp
Where this primitive is to be sent using a series of calls to
.BR ap_snd (3),
with the
.B AP_MORE
flag set, the
.I cdata->udata_length
element should be set to the total number of octets of encoded data,
(representing the
.I argument
parameter of the remote operation invocation) that will be sent with this
primtiive.  If the total number of octets of encoded data is not known, this
field may be set to minus one (-1).  The way in which this element is used and
its possible effect on performance is describedin the manual page of the
.BR P_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive in the reference XAP specification.
.TP
.I ubuf:
This function argument is used to pass a data valud that represents the
.I argument
parameter of the remote operation invocation.  The data value is in encoded
form:
.I cdata->pci
identifies the presentation context used to encode it.  This presentation
context identifies both the abstract syntax (which defines the type of value
encoded), and the trasnfer syntax (which defines how it was encoded).  Use of
the
.I ubuf
argument is described in the
.BR ap_snd (3)
manual page.
.TP
.I flags:
This argument is used to control certain aspects or primitive processing as
described in the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3).
.TP
.I aperrno_p:
This must point to a location which will be set to an error code if a failure
occurs.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
.SS Valid States
.PP
.SS New State
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Refer to the
.BR ap_snd (3)
manual page.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Refer to the
.BR ap_snd (3)
manual page.
.PP
In addition to the errors listed in the
.BR ap_snd (3)
manual page, the following error code has the defined additional meaning for
XAP-ROSE primitives:
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADPRIM ]
For XAP-ROSE primitives, this error code may also be returned if the
identified instance is not an XAP-ROSE instance - that is, the service
provider selected in the call to
.BR ap_open (3)
does not support a ROSE service provider, or the
.B AP_ROSE_MODE
flag has not been set in the
.BR AP_MODE_SEL
environment attribute.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ap_snd (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library under the OpenSS7 Project.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T4
