'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: P_RESYNC_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-17 07:20:36 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-17 07:20:36 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: P_RESYNC_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-17 07:20:36  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:24  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH P_RESYNC_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "X/Open ASCE/Presentation (XAP)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B P_RESYNC_REQ
\-  issue a resynchronization request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.HP
.B int ap_snd(
.br
.BI "int " fd ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long " sptype ,
.br
.BI "ap_cdata_t *" cdata ,
.br
.BI "ap_osi_vbuf_t *" ubuf ,
.br
.BI "int " flags ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B P_RESYNC_REQ
primitive is used in conjunction with
.BR ap_snd (3)
and the XAP Library environment to request that the association be set to an agreed defined state.
.PP
Refer to the table in the manual page description for
.BR ap_snd (3)
for information concerning the effects of sending the
.B P_RESYNC_REQ
primitive and restrictions on its use.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
To send a
.B P_RESYNC_REQ
primitive, the arguments to
.BR ap_snd (3)
must be set as described below:
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fP\(em'u
.I fd
This argument identifies the APLI/XAP Library instance being used.
.TP
.I sptype
This argument must be set to
.BR AP_P_RESYNC_REQ .
.TP
.I cdata
The following members of
.I cdata
are used for this primitive:
.RS
.RS 4
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
long udata_length;               /* length of user-data field     */
long resync_type;                /* resynchronizaiton type        */
long sync_p_sn;                  /* synchronization serial number */
unsigned long token_assignment;  /* token assignment              */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
Where this primitive is to be sent using a series of calls to
.BR ap_snd (3)
with the
.B AP_MORE
flag set,
.I cdata->udata_length
should be set to the total number of octets of encoded user data that will be
sent with this primitive.  If the total number of octets of encoded user-data
is not known this field may be set to minus one
.RB ( -1 ).
However, in some XAP implementations, setting this field to minus one
.RB ( -1 )
may significantly degrade performance as it requires the implementation to
buffer data until a complete SPDU can be transmitted.
.PP
The total number of octets of encoded user-data that can be sent with this
primitive may be subject to an implementation dependent restriction.  Any such
restriction will be stated in the CSQ for an implementation.
.PP
The argument
.I cdata->resync_type
indicates the type of resynchronization requested.  The possible values for this argument are:
.TP \w'\fBAP_ABANDON\fP\(em'u
.B AP_ABANDON
Resynchronization Type is abandon.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_RESTART
Resynchronization Type is restart
.TP
.B AP_SET
Resynchronization Type is set
.PD
.PP
The argument
.I cdata->sync_p_sn
depends upon the value of
.IR cdata->resync_type .
If
.I cdata->resync_type
is set to
.BR AP_ABANDON ,
.I cdata->sync_p_sn
is ignored.  If
.I cdata->resync_type
is set to
.BR AP_RESTART ,
.I cdata->sync_p_sn
must be set to a synchronization serial number that is greater than or equal to the serial number of
the last major syncrhonization point and less than or equal to the value of the next synchronization
point number to be used.  If
.I cdata->resync_type
is set to
.BR AP_SET ,
.I cdata->sync_p_sn
may be any valid valid from zero (0) to 999,999.
.PP
.I cdata->token_assignment
is used to specify the desired token assignement after the resynchronization.  An invalid assignment
for an available token causes
.BR ap_snd (3)
to return an error.
.RE
.TP
.I ubuf
Use of the
.I ubuf
argument is described in the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3).
.TP
.I flags
The
.I flags
argument is used to control certain aspects of primitive processing as defined
in the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3).
.RS
.PP
When issuing the
.B P_RESYNC_REQ
primitive via multiple
.BR ap_snd (3)
calls (using the
.B AP_MORE
bit feature), one or more octets of data must be sent on the final
.BR ap_snd (3)
call of the sequence.
.RE
.TP
.I aperrno_p
This must point to a location which will be set to an error code if a failure
occurs.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODES
.PP
This primitive is valid both in
.RI \(lq Normal \(rq
and
.RI \(lq X.410-1984 \(rq
mode.
.[
x410 1984
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
This primitive is originated by the XAP interface client.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATES
.PP
This primitive is valid in states
.BR AP_DATA_XFER ,
.BR AP_WSYNCMAcnf_SYNCMAreq ,
.BR AP_WRELrsp_RELind ,
.BR AP_WSYNCMArsp_SYNCMAind ,
.BR AP_WACTErsp_ACTEind ,
.BR AP_WRESYNrsp_RESYN_ind ,
.BR AP_WRECOVERYreq .
The next state is
.BR AP_WRESYNcnf_RESYNreq .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3)
in the referenced APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
or XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
specifications.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3)
in the referenced APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
or XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
specifications.
.PP
In addition to those listed in the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3),
the following error codes can be reported for this primitive:
.TP \w'[\fBAP_BADCD_RESYNC_TYPE\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ AP_BADCD_RESYNC_TYPE ]
The value of
.I cdata->resync_type
is not valid.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_SYNC_P_SN ]
The value of
.I cdata->sync_p_sn
is not valid.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_TOKENS ]
The value of
.I cdata->tokens
is not valid.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NO_PRECEDENCE ]
The resynchronization requested by the local user does not have precedence of the one requested by
the remote user.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ap_snd (3),
.BR APLI (3),
.BR XAP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B P_RESYNC_REQ
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B P_RESYNC_REQ
is compatible with APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
and XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and implementations based on APLI and XAP, such as
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
and
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR APLI (3)
and
.BR XAP (3)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
APLI,
.[
apli unix international
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B P_RESYNC_REQ
first appeared in APLI.
.[
apli unix international
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 APLI/XAP Library under the OpenSS7
Project.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
