'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: PPI.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-29 00:01:57 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:01:57 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: PPI.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-29 00:01:57  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-25 08:38:28  brian
.\" - working up libraries modules and drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-17 07:20:36  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:21  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH PPI 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Presentation Provider Interface (PPI)"
.SH NAME
.B PPI
\- Presentation Provider Interface (PPI)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ap_lib.h>
.br
.B #include <osi_lib.h>
.br
.B #include <ro_lib.h>
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.br
.B #include <xap_rose.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SERVICE PRIMITIVES
.PP
.PP
Mapping of PPI primitives to X.216 Service Primitives:

.TS
box center tab(:);
cb|cb|cb
li|lb|lb.
X.216 Service Primitive:PPI Primitive Type:XAP Primitive
_
P-CONNECT request:P_CONNECT_REQ:A_ASSOC_REQ
P-CONNECT indication:P_CONNECT_IND:A_ASSOC_IND
P-CONNECT response:P_CONNECT_RSP:A_ASSOC_RSP
P-CONNECT confirmation:P_CONNECT_CNF:A_ASSOC_CNF
P-RELEASE request:P_RELEASE_REQ:A_RELEASE_REQ
P-RELEASE indication:P_RELEASE_IND:A_RELEASE_IND
P-RELEASE response:P_RELEASE_RSP:A_RELEASE_RSP
P-RELEASE confirmation:P_RELEASE_CNF:A_RELEASE_CNF
P-U-ABORT request:P_ABORT_REQ:A_ABORT_REQ
P-U-ABORT indication:P_ABORT_IND:A_ABORT_IND
:P_PABORT_REQ:A_PABORT_REQ
P-P-ABORT indication:P_PABORT_IND:A_PABORT_IND
P-ALTER-CONTEXT request:P_ALTCNTX_REQ:\-
P-ALTER-CONTEXT indication:P_ALTCNTX_IND:\-
P-ALTER-CONTEXT response:P_ALTCNTX_RSP:\-
P-ALTER-CONTEXT confirm:P_ALTCNTX_CNF:\-
P-DATA request:\(dq:P_DATA_REQ
P-DATA indication:\(dq:P_DATA_IND
P-TYPED-DATA request:\(dq:P_TDATA_REQ
P-TYPED-DATA indication:\(dq:P_TDATA_IND
P-EXPEDITED-DATA request:\(dq:P_XDATA_REQ
P-EXPEDITED-DATA indication:\(dq:P_XDATA_IND
P-CAPABILITY-DATA request:\(dq:P_CDATA_REQ
P-CAPABILITY-DATA indication:\(dq:P_CDATA_IND
P-CAPABILITY-DATA response:\(dq:P_CDATA_RSP
P-CAPABILITY-DATA confirm:\(dq:P_CDATA_CNF
P-TOKEN-GIVE request:\(dq:P_TOKENGIVE_REQ
P-TOKEN-GIVE indication:\(dq:P_TOKENGIVE_IND
P-TOKEN-PLEASE request:\(dq:P_TOKENPLEASE_IND
P-TOKEN-PLEASE indication:\(dq:P_TOKENPLEASE_REQ
P-CONTROL-GIVE request:\(dq:P_CTRLGIVE_REQ
P-CONTROL-GIVE indication:\(dq:P_CTRLGIVE_IND
P-SYNC-MINOR request:\(dq:P_SYNCMINOR_REQ
P-SYNC-MINOR indication:\(dq:P_SYNCMINOR_IND
P-SYNC-MINOR response:\(dq:P_SYNCMINOR_RSP
P-SYNC-MINOR confirm:\(dq:P_SYNCMINOR_CNF
P-SYNC-MAJOR request:\(dq:P_SYNCMAJOR_REQ
P-SYNC-MAJOR indication:\(dq:P_SYNCMAJOR_IND
P-SYNC-MAJOR response:\(dq:P_SYNCMAJOR_RSP
P-SYNC-MAJOR confirm:\(dq:P_SYNCMAJOR_CNF
P-RESYNCHRONIZATION request:\(dq:P_RESYNC_REQ
P-RESYNCHRONIZATION indication:\(dq:P_RESYNC_IND
P-RESYNCHRONIZATION response:\(dq:P_RESYNC_RSP
P-RESYNCHRONIZATION confirm:\(dq:P_RESYNC_CNF
P-U-EXCEPTION-REPORT request:\(dq:P_UXREPORT_REQ
P-U-EXCEPTION-REPORT indication:\(dq:P_UXREPORT_IND
P-P-EXCEPTION-REPORT indication:\(dq:P_PXREPORT_IND
P-ACTIVITY-START request:\(dq:P_ACTSTART_REQ
P-ACTIVITY-START indication:\(dq:P_ACTSTART_IND
P-ACTIVITY-RESUME request:\(dq:P_ACTRESUME_REQ
P-ACTIVITY-RESUME indication:\(dq:P_ACTRESUME_IND
P-ACTIVITY-END request:\(dq:P_ACTEND_REQ
P-ACTIVITY-END indication:\(dq:P_ACTEND_IND
P-ACTIVITY-END response:\(dq:P_ACTEND_RSP
P-ACTIVITY-END confirm:\(dq:P_ACTEND_CNF
P-ACTIVITY-INTERRUPT request:\(dq:P_ACTINTR_REQ
P-ACTIVITY-INTERRUPT indication:\(dq:P_ACTINTR_IND
P-ACTIVITY-INTERRUPT response:\(dq:P_ACTINTR_RSP
P-ACTIVITY-INTERRUPT confirm:\(dq:P_ACTINTR_CNF
P-ACTIVITY-DISCARD request:\(dq:P_ACTDISCARD_REQ
P-ACTIVITY-DISCARD indication:\(dq:P_ACTDISCARD_IND
P-ACTIVITY-DISCARD response:\(dq:P_ACTDISCARD_RSP
P-ACTIVITY-DISCARD confirm:\(dq:P_ACTDISCARD_CNF
P-UNIT-DATA request:P_UNITDATA_REQ:\-
P-UNIT-DATA indication:P_UNITDATA_IND:\-
.TE

.SS P-CONNECT
.PP
.TS
box tab(:);
c|c|c|c|c
l|c|c|c|c.
Parameter name:Req:Ind:Rsp:Cnf
_
Calling-presentation-address:M:M::
Called-presentation-address:M:M::
Responding-presentation-address:::M:M
Presentation context definition list:U:C(=)::
Presentation context definition result list::C:C:C(=)
Default context name:U:C(=)::
Default context result:::C:C(=)
Quality of service:S:S:S:S
Presentation requirements:U:C:U:C(=)
Mode:M:M(=)::
Session requirements:S:S:S:S
Initial syncrhonization point serial number:S:S:S:S
Initial assignment of tokens:S:S:S:S
Session connection identifier:S:S:S:S
User data:U:C(=):U:C(=)
Result:::M:M(=)
.TE
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lw(0.5i)lssw(4.5i).
M:T{
Presence of the parameter is mandatory.
T}
U:T{
Presence of the parameter is a user option.
T}
C:T{
Presence of the parameter is conditional.
T}
(=):T{
.ad l
.hy 0
When appended to one of the above, the value of the parameter is equal to the
value of the parameter indicated in the column to the left.
T}
Blank:T{
The parameter is not present.
T}

NOTE \(em:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
When the presentation-connection establishment request is rejected by the
presentation-service-provider, the value of this parameter is
provider-generated.
T}
.TE
.TP
.I Presentation context definition list
This parameter is present when the PS-user requires to place one or more
presentations contexts in the DCS at the timer of presentation-connection
establishment.  It consists of a list containing one or more items; each item
contains two components, a presentation context identification and an abstract
sytnax name.
.sp
The presentation context identification components of this parameter exist to
distinguish presentation contexts in communication between the PS-user and the
local presentation-entity.  The unambiguous identification of the presentation
context to be established is required.  The way this is achieved in a real
open system is an implementation matter. 
.sp
NOTE \(em A separate presentation context is associated with each abstract
syntax name in the list of names in the Presentation context definition list
parameter.  If the same name occurs more than once, a separate and distinctly
identified presentation context is generated for each occurrence.
.TP
.I Presentaiton context definition result list
This parameter indicates the acceptance
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
x216
.]
.[
x226
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
