'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=0
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: RO_BIND_IND.7.man,v 1.1.2.1 2008/04/16 17:21:06 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008/04/16 17:21:06 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: RO_BIND_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2008/04/16 17:21:06  brian
.\" - added new manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:20  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_RO_BIND_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "ASCE/Presentation ROSE Interface (XAP-ROSE)"
.SH NAME
.B AP_RO_BIND_IND
\- show a request to establish an association.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XAP,
.[
XAP c303
.]
XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap_rose.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_rcv(
.br
.BI "int " fd ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" sptype ,
.br
.BI "ap_ro_cdata_t *" cdata ,
.br
.BI "ap_osi_vbuf_t **" ubuf ,
.br
.BI "int *" flags ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" aperrno_p ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fP\(em'u
.I fd
a file descriptor associated with the XAP-ROSE instance as returned from
.BR ap_open (3)
and initialized with
.BR ap_ro_init (3).
.PD 0
.TP
.I sptype
always
.B AP_RO_BIND_IND
for this primitive.
.TP
.I cdata
a pointer to the control data structure for the primitive.
.TP
.I ubuf
a pointer to a pointer to the user information returned for the primtive.
.TP
.I flags
a pointer to flags returned for the primitive.
.TP
.I aperrno_p
a pointer to a memory exent into which to received the diagnostic error code.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B AP_RO_BIND_IND
primitive is used with
.BR ap_rcv (3)
and the XAP-ROSE environment to show a request to establish an association
between two application entities wishing to use ROSE
.[
x219
.]
services.
.PP
The ROPM maps the
.B AP_RO_BIND_IND
primitive from the
.BR A_ASSOC_IND (7)
service
directly.  The effects and restrictions of receiving the
.B AP_RO_BIND_IND
primitive are identical to the
.BR A_ASSOC_IND (7)
primitive.
.PP
Refer to the table on the
.BR ap_rcv (3)
manual page, under the
.BR A_ASSOC_IND (7)
section, for these effects and restrictions.
.PP
When issuing
.BR ap_rcv (3),
the arguments must be set as described on the
.BR ap_rcv (3)
manual page.  On return, the
.BR ap_rcv (3)
arguments will be set as
described below.
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fP:\(em'u
.IR fd :
This integer value refers to the descriptor returned from a previous
.BR ap_open (3)
call.  It identifies the library instance that supports the
association.
.TP
.IR sptype :
The value pointed to by this argument will be set to
.BR AP_RO_BIND_IND .
.TP
.IR cdata :
The following members of the cdata structure are used for this primitive:
.RS
.RS 4
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
long udata_length;           /* length of user information   */
long pci;                    /* Presentation Context Id      */
long ap_a_assoc_env_t *env;  /* environment attribute values */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.I cdata->udata_length
argument will be set to show the total number of octets of encoded
user-information received with this primitive.
.PP
The
.I cdata->pci
argument will be set to the value of the presentation context id encoded
within the presentation data value which contained the ROSE PDU.
.PP
The
.I cdata->env
argument can be used to retrieve the values of the XAP environment
attributes that correspond to parameters of the A-ASSOCIATE indication which
carries the RO-BIND indication service. If the
.B AP_COPYENV
attribute in the XAP environment is false, these values will not be returned
in the
.I cdata
argument and
.I cdata->env
will be set to NULL when
.BR ap_rcv (3)
returns. If
.B AP_COPYENV
is true, the XAP library will allocate an
.B ap_a_assoc_env_t
structure and any
necessary substructures and return a pointer to it in
.IR cdata->env .
The caller
can release the storage allocated for the
.B ap_a_assoc_env_t
structure and
substructures by passing a pointer to
.I cdata
to
.BR ap_free (3).
The
.BR A_ASSOC_IND (7)
manual page in the XAP specification details the the elements of the
.B ap_a_assoc_env_t
structure used for this primitive.
.PP
The
.I cdata->type
argument signals the type of encoding that has been used to encode the
.BR AP_RO_BIND_IND .
If the
.I cdata->type
is set to
.B AP_RO_DIRECT_REF
the
.I cdata->value.global
will contain the object identifier that was used for the encoding.  If
.I cdata->type
is set to
.B AP_RO_INDIRECT_REF
then the
.I cdata->pci
value was used for the indirect-reference encoding.  If
.I cdata->type
is set to
.B AP_RO_DIR_AND_INDIR
then the
.I cdata->value.global
contains the transfer syntax that was used for the encoding and the
.I cdata->pci
is the indirect-reference.
The global element of the
.I cdata->value
element is an
.B ap_objid_t
structure containing the contents octets of the BER encoding of the OBJECT
IDENTIFIER.  See the referenced XAP specification and ISO 8825-1, Basic
Encoding Rulse (BER) for details of how to use this structure.
.RE
.TP
.IR ubuf :
Use of the
.I ubuf
argument is described on the
.BR ap_rcv (3)
manual page.
.TP
.IR flags :
This argument is used to control certain aspects of primitive processing as
described in the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced XAP
specification.
.TP
.IR aperrno_p :
The location pointed to by the
.I aperrno_p
argument is set to an error code if a failure has occurred.
.\"
.\"
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
This primitive is issued by the XAP interface service.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
.SS Valid States
.PP
.SS New State
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced XAP specification.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced XAP specification.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XAP-ROSE (3),
.BR XAP (3),
.BR ap_env (3),
.BR ap_open (3),
.BR ap_rcv (3),
.BR A_ASSOC_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B AP_RO_BIND_IND
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B AP_RO_BIND_IND
is compatible with implementation based on XAP and XAP-ROSE, such as
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
and
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR XAP-ROSE (3)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XAP,
.[
XAP c303
.]
XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B AP_RO_BIND_IND
first appeared in XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library under the OpenSS7
Project.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T4
