'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=0
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: RO_RESULT_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-29 00:01:58 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:01:58 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: RO_RESULT_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-29 00:01:58  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 20:04:22  brian
.\" - updating APLI manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2008/04/16 17:21:08  brian
.\" - added new manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:21  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_RO_RESULT_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "ASCE/Presentation ROSE Interface (XAP-ROSE)"
.SH NAME
.B AP_RO_RESULT_IND
\- show receipt of positive results from a requested operation invocation
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XAP,
.[
XAP c303
.]
XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap_rose.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_rcv(
.br
.BI "int " fd ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" sptype ,
.br
.BI "ap_ro_cdata_t *" cdata ,
.br
.BI "ap_osi_vbuf_t **" ubuf ,
.br
.BI "int *" flags ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" aperrno_p ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fIapperno_p\fP\(em'u
.I fd
a file descriptor associated with the XAP-ROSE instance as returned from
.BR ap_open (3).
.PD 0
.TP
.I sptype
always AP_RO_RESULT_IND for this primitive.
.TP
.I cdata
a pointer to the control data structure for the primitive.
.TP
.I ubuf
a pointer to the user information for the primitive.
.TP
.I flags
flags for the primitive.
.TP
.I aperrno_p
a pointer to a memory extent into which to receive the diagnostic error code.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B AP_RO_RESULT_IND
primitive is used with
.BR ap_rcv (3)
and the XAP-ROSE
.[
xap-rose
.]
environment to show the successful result of a competed remote operation.
.[
x219
.]
.[
x229
.]
.TP \w'\fIapperno_p\fP\(em'u
.I fd
This integer value refers to the descriptor returned from a previous
.BR ap_open (3)
call.  It identifies the library instance that supports the association.
.TP
.I sptype
The value pointed to by this argument will be set to
.BR AP_RO_RESULT_IND .
.TP
.I cdata
The following members of the
.I cdata
structure are used for this primitive:
.RS
.RS 4
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
long pci;               /* Presentation Context Id     */
long invoke_id;         /* Invocation identifier       */
long type;              /* local, global or no result  */
union {
  unsinged long local;  /* valid if type==AP_RO_LOCAL  */
  ap_objid_t    global; /* valid if type==AP_RO_GLOBAL */
} value;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.I cdata->pci
argument will be set to the value of the presentation context identifier
encoded within the presentation data value which contained the ROSE PDU.
.PP
The
.I cdata->type
argument shows the form in which the optional operation and result fields were
received.  If
.I type
is set to
.BR NO_RESULT ,
no result was received, and the operation and result fields are undefined.  If
.I type
is set to
.BR AP_RO_LOCAL ,
the operation was received in local format and is contained in
.IR value.local .
If
.I type
is set to
.BR AP_RO_GLOBAL ,
the operation was received in global format.  In global format, the operation
value will be contained in the
.B ap_objid_t
structure in
.IR value.local .
This global operation value should be used encoded according to ISO 8825, Basic
Encoding Rules (BER), as an object identifier.
.PP
The structure
.I cdata
is defined in the
header file,
.RB < xap_rose.h >.
.RE
.TP
.I ubuf
This function argument is used to return a data value that represents the
.I result
parameter of the remote operation result.  The data value is in encoded form:
.I cdata->pci
identifies the presentation context used to encode it.  This presentation
context idenfies both the abstract syntax (which defines the type of value
encoded), and the transfer syntax (which defines how it was encoded).  Use of
the
.I ubuf
argument is described in the
.BR ap_rcv (3)
manual page in the referenced XAP specification.
.[
xap c303
.]
.TP
.I flags
This argument is used to control certain aspects of primitive processing as
described in the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced XAP specification.
.[
xap c303
.]
.TP
.I aperrno_p
The location pointed to by the
.I aperrno_p
argument is set to an error code if a failure has occured.
.\"
.\"
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
This primitive is issued by the XAP interface service.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
.SS Valid States
.PP
.SS New State
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced XAP specification.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced XAP specification.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XAP-ROSE (3),
.BR XAP (3),
.BR ap_env (3),
.BR ap_open (3),
.BR ap_rcv (3),
.BR A_DATA_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B AP_RO_RESULT_IND
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B AP_RO_RESULT_IND
is compatible with implementation based on XAP and XAP-ROSE, such as
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
and
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR XAP-ROSE (3)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XAP,
.[
XAP c303
.]
XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B AP_RO_RESULT_IND
first appeared in XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library under the OpenSS7
Project.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T4
