'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=0
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: RO_REJECTU_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-29 00:01:58 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:01:58 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: RO_REJECTU_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-29 00:01:58  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2008/04/16 17:21:07  brian
.\" - added new manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:20  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_RO_REJECTU_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "ASCE/Presentation ROSE Interface (XAP-ROSE)"
.SH NAME
.B AP_RO_REJECTU_IND
\- indicate a problem has been detected by the remote ROSE user
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XAP,
.[
XAP c303
.]
XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap_rose.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_snd(int " fd ", unsigned long " sptype ", ap_ro_cdata_t *" cdata ", ap_osi_vbuf_t *" ubuf ", int " flags ", unsigned long *" aperrno_p ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fP\(em'u
.I fd
a file descriptor associated with the XAP-ROSE instance as returned from
.BR ap_open (3)
and initialized with
.BR ap_ro_init (3).
.PD 0
.TP
.I sptype
always
.B AP_RO_BIND_IND
for this primitive.
.TP
.I cdata
a pointer to the control data structure for the primitive.
.TP
.I ubuf
a pointer to a pointer to the user information returned for the primtive.
.TP
.I flags
a pointer to flags returned for the primitive.
.TP
.I aperrno_p
a pointer to a memory exent into which to received the diagnostic error code.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B AP_RO_REJECTU_IND
primitive is used with
.BR ap_rcv (3)
and the XAP-ROSE environment to indicate the remote ROSE
.[
x219
.]
.[
x229
.]
user has detected a problem with the previously submitted request
.RB ( AP_RO_INVOKE_REQ )
or reply
.RB ( AP_RO_RESULT_REQ ", " AP_RO_ERROR_REQ ).
The request can also be identified by the returned invoke id.
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fP\(em'u
.I fd
This integer value refers to the descriptor returned from a previous
.BR ap_open (3)
call.  It identifies the library instance that supports the
association.
.TP
.I sptype
The value pointed to by this argument will be set to
.BR AP_RO_REJECTU_IND .
.TP
.I cdata
The following members of the cdata structure are used for this primitive:
.RS
.RS 4
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
long pci;
long invoke_id_present;    /* TRUE or FALSE */
long invoke_id;
long type;
long rsn;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.I cdata->pci
argument will be set to the value of the presentation context id encoded within
the presentation data value which contained the ROSE PDU.
.PP
A reject code will include two parts, a
.IR type ,
and a
.IR rsn .
.I type
will be either
.BR AP_RO_INVOKE_TYPE ", " AP_RO_RESULT_TYPE " or " AP_RO_ERROR_TYPE .
Values for both
.I type
and the
.I rsn
that are valid for each
.I type 
are defined in the header file
.RB < xap_rose.h >.
.PP
When
.I type
is
.BR AP_RO_INVOKE_TYPE ,
.I rsn
can have one of the following values:
.TP
.BR AP_RO_IN_DUP_INVOCATION ,
.PD 0
.TP
.BR AP_RO_IN_UNREC_OPERATION ,
.TP
.BR AP_RO_IN_MISTYPED_ARG ,
.TP
.BR AP_RO_IN_RESOURCE_LIMIT ,
.TP
.BR AP_RO_IN_RELEASE_IN_PROG ,
.TP
.BR AP_RO_IN_UNREC_LINKED_ID ,
.TP
.BR AP_RO_IN_LINKED_RESP_UNEXPECTED ,
.TP
.BR AP_RO_IN_UNEXPECTED_LINKED_OPER .
.PD
.PP
When
.I type
is
.BR AP_RO_RESULT_TYPE ,
.I rsn
can have one of the following values:
.TP
.BR AP_RO_RES_UNREC_INVOCATION ,
.PD 0
.TP
.BR AP_RO_RES_RESULT_RESP_UNEXPECTED ,
.TP
.BR AP_RO_RES_MISTYPED_RESULT .
.PD
.PP
When
.I type
is
.BR AP_RO_ERROR_TYPE ,
.I rsn
can have one of the following values:
.TP
.BR AP_RO_ERR_UNREC_INVOCATION ,
.PD 0
.TP
.BR AP_RO_ERR_ERROR_RESP_UNEXPECTED ,
.TP
.BR AP_RO_ERR_UNREC_ERROR ,
.TP
.BR AP_RO_ERR_UNEXPECTED_ERROR ,
.TP
.BR AP_RO_ERR_MISTYPED_PARAM .
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ubuf
No user data is defined for this primitive, therefore
.I ubuf
will remain unchanged.
.TP
.I flags
No user data is defined for this primitive, therefore
.I flags
will remain unchanged.
.TP
.I aperrno_p
The location pointed to by the
.I aperrno_p
argument is set to an error code if a failure has occurred.
.\"
.\"
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
This primitive is issued by the XAP interface service.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
.SS Valid States
.PP
.SS New State
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced XAP specification.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced XAP specification.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XAP-ROSE (3),
.BR XAP (3),
.BR ap_env (3),
.BR ap_open (3),
.BR ap_rcv (3),
.BR P_DATA_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B AP_RO_REJECTU_IND
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B AP_RO_REJECTU_IND
is compatible with implementation based on XAP and XAP-ROSE, such as
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
and
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR XAP-ROSE (3)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XAP,
.[
XAP c303
.]
XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B AP_RO_REJECTU_IND
first appeared in XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library under the OpenSS7
Project.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T4
