'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: RO_UNBIND_CNF.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-29 00:01:58 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:01:58 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: RO_UNBIND_CNF.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-29 00:01:58  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 20:04:22  brian
.\" - updating APLI manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2008/04/16 17:21:08  brian
.\" - added new manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:21  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_RO_UNBIND_CNF 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "ASCE/Presentation ROSE Interface (XAP-ROSE)"
.SH NAME
.B AP_RO_UNBIND_CNF
\- confirm a release request
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XAP,
.[
XAP c303
.]
XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap_rose.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_rcv(
.br
.BI "int " fd ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" sptype ,
.br
.BI "ap_ro_cdata_t *" cdata ,
.br
.BI "ap_osi_vbuf_t **" ubuf ,
.br
.BI "int *" flags ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fIapperno_p\fP\(em'u
.I fd
a file descriptor associated with the XAP-ROSE instance as returned from
.BR ap_open (3).
.PD 0
.TP
.I sptype
always AP_RO_UNBIND_CNF for this primitive.
.TP
.I cdata
a pointer to the control data structure for the primitive.
.TP
.I ubuf
a pointer to the user information for the primitive.
.TP
.I flags
flags for the primitive.
.TP
.I aperrno_p
a pointer to a memory extent into which to receive the diagnostic error code.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B AP_RO_UNBIND_CNF
primitive is used with
.BR ap_rcv (3)
and the XAP-ROSE environment to confirm the acceptance or rejection of a
previously sent release request of an association using ROSE
.[
x219
.]
.[
x229
.]
services.
.PP
The ROPM maps the
.B AP_RO_UNBIND_CNF
primitive from the
.BR A_RELEASE_CNF (7)
service directly.  The effects and restrictions of receiving the
.B AP_RO_UNBIND_CNF
primitive are identical to the
.BR A_RELEASE_CNF (7)
primitive.
.PP
Refer to the
.BR ap_rcv (3)
manual page under the
.B A_RELEASE_CNF
section, or the
.BR A_RELEASE_CNF (7)
manual page for these effects and restrictions.
.PP
When issuing the
.BR ap_rcv (3),
the arguments must be set as describd on the
.BR ap_rcv (3)
manual page.  On return, the
.BR ap_rcv (3)
arguments will be set as described below:
.TP \w'\fIapperno_p\fP\(em'u
.I fd
This integer value refers to the descriptor returned from a previous
.BR ap_open (3)
call.  It identifies the library instance that supports the association.
.TP
.I sptype
The value pointed to by this argument will be set to
.BR AP_RO_UNBIND_CNF .
.TP
.I cdata
The following members of the
.I cdata
structure are used for this primitive:
.RS
.RS 4
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
long res;           /* Result of the release request */
long rsn;           /* Reason for the result         */
long udata_length;  /* length of user information    */
long pci;           /* Presentation Context Id       */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.I cdata->res
argument will be set to
.BR AP_REL_AFFIRM .
.PP
The reason associated with the result will be shown by
.IR cdata->rsn .
The possible values for
.I cdata->rsn
are as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B AP_REL_NORMAL
.br
Shows a normal release.
.IP \(bu
.B AP_REL_NOTFINISHED
.br
Shows the rejection of the release because the remote user was not finished
with the association.
.PP
The
.I cdata->udata_length
argument will be set to show the total number of octets of encoded
user-information received with this primitive.
.PP
The
.I cdata->pci
argument will be set to the value of the presentation context id encoded within
the presentation data value that contained the ROSE PDU.  If no user
information was received, the value of
.I cdata->pci
will be undefined.
.RE
.TP
.I ubuf
Use of the
.I ubuf
argument is described on the
.BR ap_rcv (3)
manual page.
.TP
.I flags
This argument is used to control certain aspects of primitive processing as
described in the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced XAP specification.
.TP
.I aperrno_p
The location pointed to by the
.I aperno_p
arugment is set to an error code if a falure has occurred.
.\"
.\"
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
This primitive is issued by the XAP interface service.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
.SS Valid States
.PP
.SS New State
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced XAP specification.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XAP-ROSE (3),
.BR XAP (3),
.BR ap_env (3),
.BR ap_open (3),
.BR ap_rcv (3),
.BR A_RELEASE_CNF (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B AP_RO_UNBIND_CNF
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B AP_RO_UNBIND_CNF
is compatible with implementation based on XAP and XAP-ROSE, such as
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
and
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR XAP-ROSE (3)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XAP,
.[
XAP c303
.]
XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B AP_RO_UNBIND_CNF
first appeared in XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library under the OpenSS7
Project.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T4
