'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=0
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: RO_UNBIND_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-29 00:01:58 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:01:58 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: RO_UNBIND_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-29 00:01:58  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2008/04/16 17:21:08  brian
.\" - added new manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:21  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_RO_UNBIND_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "ASCE/Presentation ROSE Interface (XAP-ROSE)"
.SH NAME
.B AP_RO_UNBIND_REQ
\- request the release of an association
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XAP,
.[
XAP c303
.]
XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap_rose.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_snd(
.br
.BI "int " fd ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long " sptype ,
.br
.BI "ap_ro_cdata_t *" cdata ,
.br
.BI "ap_osi_vbuf_t *" ubuf ,
.br
.BI "int " flags ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" aperrno_p ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fR\(em'u
.I fd
a file descriptor associated with the XAP-ROSE instance as returned from
.BR ap_open (3).
.PD 0
.TP
.I sptype
always AP_RO_UNBIND_REQ for this primitive.
.TP
.I cdata
a pointer to the control data structure for the primitive.
.TP
.I ubuf
a pointer to the user information for the primitive.
.TP
.I flags
flags for the primitive.
.TP
.I aperrno_p
a pointer to a memory extent into which to receive the diagnostic error code.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B AP_RO_UNBIND_REQ
primitive is used with
.BR ap_snd (3)
and the XAP-ROSE
.[
xap-rose
.]
environment to request the normal release of an association between two
application entities using ROSE
.[
x219
.]
.[
x229
.]
service.
.PP
The ROPM maps the
.B AP_RO_UNBIND_REQ
primitive to the
.BR A_RELEASE_REQ (7)
service directly.  The effects and restrictions of sending the
.B AP_RO_UNBIND_REQ
primitive are identical to the
.BR A_RELEASE_REQ (7)
primitive.
.PP
Refer to the table on the
.BR ap_snd (3)
maual page, under the
.B A_RELEASE_REQ
section, or the
.BR A_RELEASE_REQ (7)
manual page, for these effects and restrictions.
.PP
To send an
.B AP_RO_UNBIND_REQ
primitive, the arguments to
.BR ap_snd (3) must be set as described below:
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fR\(em'u
.I fd
This integer value refers to the descriptor returned from a previous
.BR ap_open (3)
call.  It identifies the library instance that supports the association.
.TP
.I sptype
This argument must be set to
.BR AP_RO_UNBIND_REQ .
.TP
.I cdata
The following members of the
.I cdata
structure are used for this primitive:
.RS
.RS 4
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
long rsn;          /* reason for release         */
long udata_length; /* length of user information */
long pci;          /* Presentation Context Id    */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.I cdata->rsn
argument must be set to
.BR AP_REL_NORMAL .
.PP
The
.I cdata->udata_length
argument must be set to the number of octets of ecnoded user-information that
will be sent with this primitive if the primitive is issued as more than one
.BR ap_snd (3)
invocation.  If the primitive is issued as a single
.BR ap_snd (3)
invocation, this field will be ignored.
.PP
The
.I cdata->pci
argument must be set to a value representing the presentation context id of a
valid abstract syntax contained in the environment attribute
.BR AP_RO_PCI_LIST .
The ROSE PDU will be encoded within a presentation data value identified by
this object.
.RE
.TP
.I ubuf
Use of the
.I ubuf
argument is described on the
.BR ap_snd (3)
manual page.
.TP
.I flags
This argument is used to control certain aspects of primitive processing as
described in the manual page for
.BR ap_snd (3)
in the referenced XAP specification.
.[
xap c303
.]
.TP
.I aperrno_p
This must point to a location that will be set to an error code if failure
occurs.
.\"
.\"
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
This primitive is originated by the XAP interface client.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
.SS Valid States
.PP
.SS New State
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Refer to the manual page for
.BR ap_rcv (3)
in the referenced XAP specification.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Refer to the
.BR ap_snd (3)
manual page.
.PP
In addition to the errors listed in the
.BR ap_snd (3)
manual page, the following error code has the defined additional meaning for
XAP-ROSE primitives:
.TP \w'[\fBAP_RO_BAD_PCI\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ AP_BADTOKEN ]
The token(s) required to issue this primitive are not currently held.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_RSN ]
The value of
.I cdata->rsn
is not valid.
.TP
.RB [ AP_RO_BAD_PCI ]
The PCI is not in the
.BR AP_RO_PCI_LIST .
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADPRIM ]
For
.B XAP-ROSE
primitives, this error code may be returned if the identified instance is not
an
.B XAP-ROSE
instance\(emthat is, the service provider selected in the call to
.BR ap_open (3)
does not support a ROSE service provider, or the
.B AP_ROSE_MODE
flag has not been set in the
.B AP_MODE_SEL
environment attribute.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B AP_RO_UNBIND_REQ
must be used instead of
.BR A_RELEASE_REQ (7)
when
.B AP_MODE_SEL
contains
.BR AP_ROSE_MODE .
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XAP-ROSE (3),
.BR XAP (3),
.BR ap_env (3),
.BR ap_open (3),
.BR ap_rcv (3),
.BR A_RELEASE_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B AP_RO_UNBIND_REQ
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B AP_RO_UNBIND_REQ
is compatible with implementation based on XAP and XAP-ROSE, such as
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
and
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR XAP-ROSE (3)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XAP,
.[
XAP c303
.]
XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B AP_RO_UNBIND_REQ
first appeared in XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library under the OpenSS7
Project.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T4
