'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CH_DATA_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/10/14 06:37:23 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/14 06:37:23 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CH_DATA_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/14 06:37:23  brian
.\" - added manpages, module, drivers, headers from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:13  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CH_DATA_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Channel Interface (CHI)"
.SH NAME
.B CH_DATA_REQ, CH_data_req, CH_data_req_t
\- media data request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive is one optional
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks containing one or more bytes of media data.  The optional
.B M_PROTO
message block is structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CH_data_req {
    ch_ulong ch_primitive;      /* always CH_DATA_REQ */
    ch_ulong ch_slot;           /* slot within channel */
} CH_data_req_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Conveys media data for transmission from the channel service user to the
channel service provider.
.PP
The optional
.B M_PROTO
message block permits the result of a
.BR write (2)
operation to be passed directly to the CHI conforming provider.
.SH PARAMETERS
The primitive optionally contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I ch_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CH_DATA_REQ .
.TP
.I ch_slot
specifies the slot to which the data belongs.  This is only valid for explicit
multipel slot channels (e.g, separated stereo or quadraphonic) and is
otherwise coded zero (0) by the channel service user and ignored by the
channel service provider.  When the
.I ch_slot
is insignificant, the optional
.B M_PROTO
message block does not need to be included by the channel service user, and
only the
.B M_DATA
message blocks need be specified.  Whenever the optional
.B M_PROTO
message block is not included,
.I ch_slot
is assumed to be zero (0).
.SH ORIGINATOR
Channel Service User.
.SH STATES
This primitive is valid in state
.BR CHS_CONNECTED
for the transmit direction.  The resulting state is unchanged.
.SH RULES
The following rules apply to the data included in the associated
.B M_DATA
message blocks:
.IP \(em 4
The data included in the associated
.B M_DATA
message blocks must contain at least one byte of data.  If there are no
associated
.B M_DATA
message blocks, or the associated blocks contain no data, the provider returns
the fatal error
.RB [ EPROTO ].
.PP
This primitive requires no acknowledgment but may return a fatal error.
.SH ERRORS
Fatal errors are as follows:
.TP
.RB [ EPROTO ]
The amount of data specified in the associated
.B M_DATA
message blocks is invalid.  That is, the amount of data is zero (0) or is too
large for the channel service provider.  The channel service provider is
allows to return this error if the data is larger than the channel block size
indicated in the
.BR CH_OPTMGMT_ACK (7)
primitive.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CH_DATA_IND (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for CHI Version 1.
.XX
.[
chi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
