'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CH_INFO_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/10/14 06:37:23 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/14 06:37:23 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CH_INFO_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/14 06:37:23  brian
.\" - added manpages, module, drivers, headers from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:13  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CH_INFO_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Channel Interface (CHI)"
.SH NAME
.B CH_INFO_ACK, CH_info_ack, CH_info_ack_t
\- information acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive is one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CH_info_ack {
    ch_ulong ch_primitive;      /* always CH_INFO_ACK */
    ch_ulong ch_addr_length;    /* channel address length */
    ch_ulong ch_addr_offset;    /* channel address offset */
    ch_ulong ch_parm_length;    /* channel paramters length */
    ch_ulong ch_parm_offset;    /* channel paramters offset */
    ch_ulong ch_prov_flags;     /* provider options flags */
    ch_ulong ch_style;          /* provider style */
    ch_ulong ch_version;        /* channel interface version */
    ch_ulong ch_state;          /* channel state */
} CH_info_ack_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Indicates to the channel user requested information concerning the channel
provider associated with the CH stream and the attached channel (if any).
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive has the following parameters:
.TP
.I ch_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR CH_INF_ACK .
.TP
.I ch_addr_length
indicates the length of the channel address.
.TP
.I ch_addr_offset
indicates the offset, from the beginning of the
.B M_PCPROTO
message block, of the channel address.
.TP
.I ch_parm_length
indicates the length of the
channel parameters associated with the channel attached to the requesting
stream.
.TP
.I ch_parm_offset
indicates the offset, from the beginning of the
.B M_PCPROTO
message block, of the
channel parameters associated with the channel attached to the requesting
stream.
.TP
.I ch_prov_flags
indicates the provider options flags.  No flags are currently specified.
.TP
.I ch_style
indicates the style of the CH.
.I ch_style
can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B CH_STYLE1
indicates that the CH stream does not need to perform attach.
.TP
.B CH_STYLE2
indicates that the CH stream needs to perform attach.
.RE
.TP
.I ch_version
indicates the version of the CHI to which the CH stream conforms.  This
version can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B CH_VERSION_1_0
indicates Version 1.0 of the Channel Interface (CHI) Specification.
.TP
.B CH_VERSION
indicates the current version
.RB ( CH_VERSION_1_0 ).
.RE
.TP
.I ch_state
indicates the state of the attached channel.
.I ch_state
can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B CHS_UNINIT
The channel has not yet been initialized.
.TP
.B CHS_UNUSABLE
The channel is unusable.
.TP
.B CHS_DETACHED
The CH stream is detached from all channels.
.TP
.B CHS_WACK_AREQ
The CH stream is waiting acknowledgment of a
.BR CH_ATTACH_REQ (7).
.TP
.B CHS_WACK_UREQ
The CH stream is waiting acknowledgment of a
.BR CH_DETACH_REQ (7).
.TP
.B CHS_ATTACHED
The CH stream is attached to a channel, but the associated channel is
disabled.
.TP
.B CHS_WACK_EREQ
The CH stream is waiting acknowledgment of a
.BR CH_ENABLE_REQ (7).
.TP
.B CHS_WCON_EREQ
The CH stream is waiting confirmation of a
.BR CH_ENABLE_REQ (7).
.TP
.B CHS_WACK_RREQ
The CH stream is waiting acknowledgment of a
.BR CH_DISABLE_REQ (7).
.TP
.B CHS_WCON_RREQ
The CH stream is waiting confirmation of a
.BR CH_DISABLE_REQ (7).
.TP
.B CHS_ENABLED
THe CH stream is enabled and ready to be connected, but is currently
disconnected.
.TP
.B CHS_WACK_CREQ
The CH stream is waiting acknowledgment of a
.BR CH_CONNECT_REQ (7).
.TP
.B CHS_WCON_CREQ
The CH stream is waiting confirmation of a
.BR CH_CONNECT_REQ (7).
.TP
.B CHS_WACK_DREQ
The CH stream is waiting acknowledgment of a
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_REQ (7).
.TP
.B CHS_WCON_DREQ
The CH stream is waiting confirmation of a
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_REQ (7).
.TP
.B CHS_CONNECTED
The CH stream is connected to the attached and enabled channel and
transferring media for the channel.
.RE
.SH ORIGINATOR
Channel Service Provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CH_INFO_REQ (7),
.BR CH_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
.BR CH_OPTMGMT_ACK (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for CHI Version 1.
.XX
.[
chi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
