'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: chi.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2006/12/22 07:17:35 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/12/22 07:17:35 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: chi.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/12/22 07:17:35  brian
.\" - updated documentation for release (make check target)
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/14 06:37:25  brian
.\" - added manpages, module, drivers, headers from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:19  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CHI 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Channel Interface (CHI)"
.SH NAME
.B chi
\- Channel Interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/chi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/chi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " ch_stream " = open(" ch_device ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The Channel Interface,
.BR CHI ,
specifices a
.IR STREAMS (4)-based
kernel-level instantiation of a Channel interface definition compatible with
the Multiplex,
.BR mx (4),
and Media Gateway
.BR mg (4),
drivers.  The Channel Interface (CHI) enables the user of a channel to access
and use any variety of conforming communications media channels, without
specific knowledge of the provider's protocol.  The service interface is
designed to support any media channel service provider, and does not address
issues concerning channel management, protocol performance, and performance
analysis tools.  The specification assumes that the reader is familiar with
ITU-T synchronous digital hierarchy and
.IR STREAMS (4).
.PP
.B CHI
specifies an interface that supports the service provided by various low level
device drivers such as the X400P-SS7 driver,
.BR x400p (4),
and X100P-SS7 driver
.BR x100p (4).
These specifications are targeted for use by developers and testers fo
protocol modules that require channel service.
.SS "The Channel Services Provider"
.PP
The Channel Services Provider provides the means to manage the connection and
disconnection of channels.  It is a local control protocol in the sense that
there not necessarily any remote peer entitites.  Communications is between
the local user entity and the local provider entity.
.SS "Model of the CHI"
.PP
The CHI defines the service provided by the channel services provider to
channel services user at the boundary between the channel services provider
and the channel services user entity.  The interface consists of a set of
primitives defined as
.IR STREAMS (4)
messages that provide access to the channel services, and a transferred
between the channel services user entity and the channel services provider
entity.  These primitives are of two types: ones that originate from the
channel services user (CSU), and other tha originate from the channel services
provider (CSP).  The primitives that originate from the CSU make requests to
the CSP, or respond to an indication or event of the CSP.  The primitives that
originate from the CSP are etiher confirmation of a requies or are indications
to the CSU that an event has occured.
.PP
The CHI allows the CSP to be configured with any media streams (such as
G.703/G.704 digital channels) that also conform to the CHI.  A CSU can also be
a user program that conforms to the CHI and accesses the CSP via
.BR putmsg (2)
and
.BR getmsg (2)
system calls.
.TP
.B CHI Services
The features of the CHI are defined in terms of services provided by the CSP,
and the individual primitives that may flow between the CSU and CSP.
.TP
.B Local Management
The CHI specification also defines a set of local management functions.  These
services have significance only to the local stream.
.SH "CHI SERVICES DEFINITION"
.PP
.SS "Local Management Services"
.PP
The channel service provider provides the following local management services:
.PP
.B Information Service.
The information service provides the channel service user with the ability to
query the channel service provider concerning options and parameters specific
to the channel service provider and associated with an attached channel.  The
information service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_INFO_REQ (7):
Request information about the attached channel and channel service provider.
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_INFO_ACK (7):
Indicates information about the attached channel and channel service provider.
.PP
.B Options Management Service.
The options management service provides a mechanism whereby the channel
service user can query and change parameters associated with the attached
channel and manage options associated with the channel service provider.
The options management service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_OPTMGMT_REQ (7):
Manage the specified options.
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_OPTMGMT_ACK (7):
Acknowledge that the management of the previously specified options is
complete.
.PP
.B Channel Attachment Service.
The channel attachment service provides the channel service user with the
ability to attach a specified channel to the requesting stream for a
stream associated with a
.B CH_STYLE2
channel service provider.  The channel attachment service is not available on
a stream associated with a
.B CH_STYLE1
channel service provider.
The channel attachment service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_ATTACH_REQ (7):
Attach the specified channel to the requesting stream.
.PP
.B Channel Detachment Service.
The channel detachment service provides the channel service user with the
ability to detach a previously attached channel from the requesting stream.
The requesting stream must be associated with a
.B CH_STYLE2
channel service provider and must have previously successfully executed a
.BR CH_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive.
The channel detachment service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_DETACH_REQ (7):
Detach the currently attached channel from the requesting stream.
.PP
.B Receipt Acknowledgment Service.
The receipt acknowlegment service provides an indication to the channel
service user of the positive or negative acknowledgment of the previous
primitive issued by the channel service user.
The receipt acknowledgement service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_OK_ACK (7):
Successful receipt acknowledgment.
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_ERROR_ACK (7):
Unsuccessful receipt acknowledgement.
.SS "Connection Services"
.PP
The channel service provider provides the following connection services:
.PP
.B Enable Service.
The enable service provides the channel service user with the ability to
enable the attached channel.  Some channel service providers can enable
channels (prepare them for operation) locally, and others will require
exchanges with the transmission peer that will take some time before the
channel can be enabled.
The enable service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_ENABLE_REQ (7):
Request that the attached channel be enabled.
This primitives requires local acknowledgment.
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_ENABLE_CON (7):
Confirms that the attached channel has been enabled as requested.
.PP
.B Disable Service.
The disable service provides the channel service user with the ability to
disable the attached channel.  Some channel service providers can disable
channels (remove them from operation) locally, and others will require
exchanges with the transmission peer that may take some time before the
channel can be disabled.
In addition, it is possible tha an autonomous disabling of the channel occurs
without the request of the channel service user.  In this case, the channel
disable service is used to indicate to the channel service user that an
autonomous disabling of the channel has occured.
The disable service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_DISABLE_REQ (7):
Request that the attached enabled channel be disabled.
This primitives requires local acknowledgment.
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_DISABLE_CON (7):
Confirms that the attached channel has been enabled as requested.
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_DISABLE_IND (7):
Indicates that the attached channel has autonomously been disabled.
.PP
.B Connect Service.
The connect service provides the channel service user iwth the ability to
connect an enabled channel in the receive and/or transmit directions.  Some
channel service providers can connect channels locally, and others will
required exchanges with the transmission peer that will take some time before
the channel can be connected in the specified direction.
The connect service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_CONNECT_REQ (7):
Requests that the attached and enabled channel be connected in the specified
direction.
This primitives requires local acknowledgment.
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_CONNECT_CON (7):
Confirms that the attached and enabled channel has been connected in the
indicated directions as requested.
.PP
.B Disconnect Service.
The disconnect service provides the channe service user with the ability to
disconnect a connected channel in the specified receive or transmit
directions.  Some channel service providers can disconnect channels locally,
and others will require exchanges with the transmission peer tha may take some
time before the channel can be disconnected in the specified direction.  In
addition, it is possible that an autonomous disconnection occurs without the
request of the channel service user.  In this case, the channel disconnect
service is used to indicate to the channel service user that an autonomous
disconnection has occurred in the indicated directions.
The disconnect service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_REQ (7):
Requests that the attached, enabled and connected channel be disconnected in
ths specified directions.
This primitives requires local acknowledgment.
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_CON (7):
Confirms that the attached, enabled and connected channel has been
disconnected in the indicated directions as requested.
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_IND (7):
Indicates that the channel has been autonomously disconnected in the indicated
directions.
.SS "Event Services"
.PP
The channel service provider provides the following event services:
.PP
.B Notification Service.
The notification service is used by the channel service provider to
inform the channel service user that a specific event has occured.
The notification service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_EVENT_IND (7):
Indicates that the indicated event has occured.
.SS "Media Services"
.PP
The channel service provider provides the following media services:
.PP
.B Data Transfer Service.
The data transfer service is used by the channel service user to request the
transmission of channel media data on the channel.  It is also used by the
channel service provider to indicate the reception of channel media data on
the channel.
The data transfer service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_DATA_REQ (7):
Requests that the specified media data be transmitted.
.IP \(em 4
.BR CH_DATA_IND (7):
Indicates that the indicated media data was received.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The Channel Interface (CHI) does not define any general options at this
time.  Options specific to the underlying CH provider will be defined in the
manual page for the specific CH provider.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
This documentation is not complete and needs some work before it is finalized.
.SH FILES
.PP
The Channel Interface (CHI) is defined in the
.BR <sys/chi.h>
and
.BR <sys/chi_ioctl.h>
header files.  Additional header files are specified by specific providers of
the CHI interface.
.SH DEVICES
.PP
The Channel Inteface (CHI) does not provide any devices of its own.
Specific providers of the interface will provide their own devices.
.SH MODULES
.PP
Some generic
.IR STREAMS (4)
modules can be provided that convert between the CHI interface and other
interfaces (such as the MXI).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR CH_ATTACH_REQ (7),
.BR CH_CONNECT_CON (7),
.BR CH_CONNECT_REQ (7),
.BR CH_DATA_IND (7),
.BR CH_DATA_REQ (7),
.BR CH_DETACH_REQ (7),
.BR CH_DISABLE_CON (7),
.BR CH_DISABLE_IND (7),
.BR CH_DISABLE_REQ (7),
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_CON (7),
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_IND (7),
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_REQ (7),
.BR CH_ENABLE_CON (7),
.BR CH_ENABLE_REQ (7),
.BR CH_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR CH_EVENT_IND (7),
.BR CH_INFO_ACK (7),
.BR CH_INFO_REQ (7),
.BR CH_OK_ACK (7),
.BR CH_OPTMGMT_ACK (7),
.BR CH_OPTMGMT_REQ (7).
.SH "VERSIONS"
.PP
This manpage was written for CHI Version 1.
.XX
.[
chi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
