'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MG_ATTACH_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-28 23:39:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 23:39:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MG_ATTACH_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-28 23:39:50  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/14 06:37:23  brian
.\" - added manpages, module, drivers, headers from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MG_ATTACH_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Media Gateway Interface (MGI)"
.SH NAME
.B MG_ATTACH_REQ, MG_attach_req, MG_attach_req_t
\- attach channel request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive is one
.BR M_PROTO
message block structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MG_attach_req {
    ulong mg_primitive;         /* always MG_ATTACH_REQ */
    ulong mg_mx_id;             /* multiplex id (or 0 for requesting stream) */
    ulong mg_mx_slot;           /* multiplex slot number */
    ulong mg_ch_id;             /* channel id (or 0 for provider assignment) */
    ulong mg_ch_type;           /* type of channel */
} MG_attach_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Requests that the specified slot on the requesting stream
.RI ( "mg_mx_id " "== 0)"
or specified multiplex
.RI ( "mg_mx_id " "!= 0)"
be associated with a newly created channel with specified
.RI ( "mg_ch_id " "!= 0)"
or provider assigned
.RI ( "mg_ch_id " "== 0)"
channel id.
.PP
This primitive is acknowledged with the
.BR MG_ATTACH_ACK (7).
.PP
If the requesting stream is closed, all channels attached to the requesting
stream will be detached.  Only channels that are associated with the
requesting stream need be assigned in this fashion.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive has the following parameters:
.TP
.I mg_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR MG_ATTACH_REQ .
.TP
.I mg_mx_id
specifies the identifier of the multiplex from which to attach a channel.  If
the identifier is zero (0), it specifies the requesting stream as the
multiplex.
.TP
.I mg_mx_slot
specifies the slot within the specified multiplex to attach as a channel.
.TP
.I mg_ch_id
specifies the channel id to assign to the attached multiplex slot.  When zero
(0), it specifies that the MG provider is to assign a unique channel
identifier.
.TP
.I mg_ch_type
specifies the type of the channel.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Media gateway controller.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MG_ATTACH_ACK (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MGI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mgi
.]
.[
rfc3435
.]
.[
h248.1
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
