'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MG_ABORT_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-28 23:39:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 23:39:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MG_ABORT_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-28 23:39:50  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/14 06:37:23  brian
.\" - added manpages, module, drivers, headers from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MG_ABORT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Media Gateway Interface (MGI)"
.SH NAME
.B MG_ABORT_REQ, MG_abort_req, MG_abort_req_t
\- abort action request.
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive is one
.B M_PROTO
message block structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MG_abort_req {
    ulong mg_primitive;         /* always MG_ABORT_REQ */
    ulong mg_se_id;             /* session id */
    ulong mg_tp_id;             /* termination id for action to abort */
    ulong mg_action_id;         /* identifier of action to abort */
} MG_abort_req_t;

#define MG_ACTION_PREVIOUS      (-1UL)
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Requests that the specified action be aborted.  This primitive is confirmed
with the
.B MG_OK_ACK
primiitve.  If the action identifier is
.BR MG_ACTION_PREVIOUS ,
this primitive requests that the previously initiated (unconfirmed) action be
aborted.  If the action identifier is zero, this primitive requests that all
actions on the specified termination point be aborted.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I mg_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR MG_ABORT_REQ .
.TP
.I mg_se_id
specifies the session id of the communications session in which to abort the
action.
.TP
.I mg_tp_id
specifies the termination id of the terminaton point for which to abort the
action.
.TP
.I mg_action_id
specifies the action id of the action, returned by the
.BR MG_ACTION_CON (7)
primitive when the action starts.  This action id may also be the value
.BR MG_ACTION_PREVIOUS .
This value is used when the
.B MG_ABORT_REQ
is being requested before the
.BR MG_ACTION_CON (7)
indicating the action id is received.  This will abort the last invoked
action.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Media gateway controller.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MG_ACTION_REQ (7),
.BR MG_ACTION_CON (7),
.BR MG_ACTION_IND (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MGI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mgi
.]
.[
rfc3435
.]
.[
h248.1
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
