'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MG_ACTION_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-28 23:39:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 23:39:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MG_ACTION_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-28 23:39:50  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/14 06:37:23  brian
.\" - added manpages, module, drivers, headers from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MG_ACTION_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Media Gateway Interface (MGI)"
.SH NAME
.B MG_ACTION_REQ, MG_action_req, MG_action_req_t
\- action request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive is one
.B M_PROTO
message block, followed by zero ore more
.B M_DATA
message blocks.  The
.B M_PROTO
message block is structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MG_action_req {
    ulong mg_primitive;         /* always MG_ACTION_REQ */
    ulong mg_action;            /* requested action */
    ulong mg_se_id;             /* session id */
    ulong mg_tp_id;             /* termination id to perform action */
    ulong mg_duration;          /* duration in milliseconds */
    ulong mg_flags;             /* option flags */
} MG_action_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Requests that the action of the requested type be performed against the
specified session and termination point for the requested duration and with
the requested options.
.PP
When more data is indicated using the
.B MG_MORE_DATA
flag, it indicates that subsequent
.B MG_ACTION_REQ
primitives contain more data for the associated pattern.  The data is encoded
according to the media format of the requesting stream.
When the requested duration is zero, the action will continue until its normal
termination, or until subsequently aborted.
.PP
Actions on terminations which are currently connected in a communications
session will be mixed with the media received from the communications session
and any other actions which are currently being performed on the termination.
Actions on terminations which are currently disconnected from a communications
session will be be mixed with the media from other actions on the termination
point.
.PP
Some actions can only be performed on disconnected termination points (e.g.,
.BR MG_ACTION_LOOPBACK ,
.BR MG_ACTION_TEST_SILENT ).
Some actions replace all other actions on the termination point (e.g.,
.BR MG_ACTION_LOOPBACK ,
.BR MG_ACTION_TEST_SILENT ).
Some actions performed on a termination point will be performed on individual
channels that make up the termination point (e.g.
.BR MG_ACTION_LOOPBACK ).
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive has the following parameters:
.TP
.I mg_primitive
requires the primitive type.  Always
.BR MG_ACTION_REQ .
.TP
.I mg_action
requested action.
The action can be one of the following values:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lbl.
MG_ACTION_SEND_PATTERN:\- send the provided pattern
MG_ACTION_REPEAT_PATTERN:\- repeat the provided pattern
MG_ACTION_LOOPBACK:\- apply loopback
MG_ACTION_TEST_CONT:\- apply continuity test tone
MG_ACTION_TEST_MILLIWATT:\- apply milliwatt
MG_ACTION_TEST_SILENT:\- apply silent termination
MG_ACTION_TEST_BALANCED:\- apply ballanced termination
MG_ACTION_US_RINGBACK:\- apply US ringback
MG_ACTION_US_BUSY:\- apply US busy
MG_ACTION_US_REORDER:\- apply US reorder
MG_ACTION_US_PERM_SIGNAL:\- apply US receiver of hook
MG_ACTION_US_BONG:\- apply US bong tone
MG_ACTION_EU_RINGBACK:\- apply EU ringback
MG_ACTION_EU_BUSY:\- apply EU busy
MG_ACTION_EU_REORDER:\- apply EU reorder
MG_ACTION_EU_PERM_SIGNAL:\- apply EU receiver of hook
MG_ACTION_EU_BONG:\- apply EU bong tone
MG_ACTION_MF_0:\- apply MF 0
MG_ACTION_MF_1:\- apply MF 1
MG_ACTION_MF_2:\- apply MF 2
MG_ACTION_MF_3:\- apply MF 3
MG_ACTION_MF_4:\- apply MF 4
MG_ACTION_MF_5:\- apply MF 5
MG_ACTION_MF_6:\- apply MF 6
MG_ACTION_MF_7:\- apply MF 7
MG_ACTION_MF_8:\- apply MF 8
MG_ACTION_MF_9:\- apply MF 9
MG_ACTION_MF_A:\- apply MF A
MG_ACTION_MF_B:\- apply MF B
MG_ACTION_MF_C:\- apply MF C
MG_ACTION_MF_D:\- apply MF D
MG_ACTION_MF_E:\- apply MF E
MG_ACTION_MF_F:\- apply MF F
MG_ACTION_WAIT:\- wait for specific duration
.TE
.TP
.I mg_se_id
The session id of the communications session within which the action is
requested.
.TP
.I mg_tp_id
The termination id of the termination point on which the action is requested.
.TP
.I mg_duration
For actions that are indefinite but need to be performed for a restricted
duration, this is the duration to perform the action in milliseconds.
.TP
.I mg_flags
Options flags associated with the action.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Media gateway controller.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MG_ACTION_IND (7),
.BR MG_ACTION_CON (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MGI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mgi
.]
.[
rfc3435
.]
.[
h248.1
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
