'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MG_CONN_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-28 23:39:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 23:39:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MG_CONN_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-28 23:39:50  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/14 06:37:23  brian
.\" - added manpages, module, drivers, headers from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MG_CONN_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Media Gateway Interface (MGI)"
.SH NAME
.B MG_CONN_REQ, MG_conn_req, MG_conn_req_t
\- channel connection request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive is one
.B M_PROTO
message block structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MG_conn_req {
    ulong mg_primitive;         /* always MG_CONN_REQ */
    ulong mg_se_id;             /* session id */
    ulong mg_tp_id;             /* termination point */
    ulong mg_conn_flags;        /* connection flags */
    ulong mg_padding;           /* digital padding */
    ulong mg_topology_length;   /* length of topology to connect */
    ulong mg_topology_offset;   /* offset of topology to connect */
} MG_conn_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Requests that the specified termination point be connected into the
communications session in the directions indicated by
.IR mg_conn_flags ,
with the digital padding specified and the optional topology description.
.PP
If the optional topology description is not included, it is assumed that the
termination point is requested to be connected to all other participants in
the communications session in the directions requested.
.PP
If the optional topology description is included, it contains the list of
other termination points in the session to which the the specified termination
point is to be connected in the directions requested.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive has the following parameters:
.TP
.I mg_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR MG_CONN_REQ .
.TP
.I mg_se_id
specifies the session id of the communications session into which to connect
the channel.
.TP
.I mg_tp_id
specifies the channel id of the termination point to connect into the session.
.TP
.I mg_conn_flags
specifies the connection flags.  See
.IR \*(lqFLAGS\*(rq ,
below.
.TP
.I mg_padding
specifies the digital padding to apply the the connection.
.TP
.I mg_topology_length
specifies the length of the topology descriptor (list of channel ids in the
communications session) to which to make the connection.
.TP
.I mg_topology_offset
specifies the offset, from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block, of the topology descriptor (list of channel ids in the
communications session) to which to make the connection.
.SH FLAGS
THe connection flags can be a bitwise OR of one or more of the following
values:
.TP
.B MGF_IC_DIR
connect the termination point in the incoming (to the termination point)
direction only.
.TP
.B MGF_OG_DIR
connect the termination point in the outgoing (from the termination point)
direction only.
.TP
.B MGF_BOTH_DIR
connect the termination point in both directions.  This flag is a bitwise OR
of
.BR MGF_IG_DIR " and " MG_OG_DIR .
.SH ORIGINATION
Media gateway controller.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MG_CONN_CON (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MGI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mgi
.]
.[
rfc3435
.]
.[
h248.1
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
