'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MX_CONNECT_CON.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-28 23:39:51 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 23:39:51 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MX_CONNECT_CON.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-28 23:39:51  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/14 06:37:25  brian
.\" - added manpages, module, drivers, headers from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:16  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MX_CONNECT_CON 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Multiplex Interface (MXI)"
.SH NAME
.B MX_CONNECT_CON, MX_connect_ind, MX_connect_ind_t
\- connection confirmation
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MX_connect_con {
    ulong mx_primitive;         /* always MX_CONNECT_CON */
    ulong mx_conn_flags;        /* direction connected */
    ulong mx_slot;              /* slot within channel */
} MX_connect_con_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Confirms that the connection previously requested with a
.BR MX_CONNECT_REQ (7)
primitive is confirmed as complete.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I mx_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MX_CONNECT_CON .
.TP
.I mx_conn_flags
indicates the connection flags.  See
.IR \*(lqFLAGS\*(rq ,
below.
.TP
.I mx_slot
indicates the multiplex slot that is confirmed connected.
.SH FLAGS
The
.I mx_conn_flags
field contains a bitwise OR of one or more of the following flags:
.TP
.B MXF_RX_DIR
confirms that the connection was made in the receive direction.
.TP
.B MXF_TX_DIR
confirms that the connection was made in the transmit direction.
.TP
.B MXF_BOTH_DIR
confirms that the connection was made in both directions.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Multiplex Service Provider.
.SH STATES
This primitive is valid in state
.BR MXS_WCON_CREQ
for the directions specified.
The resulting state is
.BR CHS_CONNECTED
for the directions specified.
.SH RULES
The following rules apply to the connection flags:
.IP \(em 4
The connection flags,
.IR mx_conn_flags ,
will be the same as the flags specified in the corresponding
.BR MX_CONNECT_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP \(em 4
If a connection cannot be made in one of the directions specified, a
.BR MX_DISCONNECT_IND (7)
primitive will be issued instead.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MX_CONNECT_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MXI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mxi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
