'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MX_DETACH_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-28 23:39:51 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 23:39:51 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MX_DETACH_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-28 23:39:51  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/14 06:37:25  brian
.\" - added manpages, module, drivers, headers from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:16  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MX_DETACH_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Multiplex Interface (MXI)"
.SH NAME
.B MX_DETACH_REQ, MX_detach_req, MX_detach_req_t
\- channel detach request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MX_detach_req {
    ulong mx_primitive;         /* always MX_DETACH_REQ */
} MX_detach_req_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Requests that the attached channels be detached from the requesting multiplex.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I mx_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR MX_DETACH_REQ .
.SH ORIGINATOR
Multiplex Service User.
.SH STATES
This primitive is valid in state
.BR MXS_ATTACHED .
The resulting state is
.BR MXS_WACK_UREQ .
.SH RULES
These primitives require the multiplex service provider to generate one of the
following acknowledgments on receipt of the primitive, and the multiplex
service user must wait for the acknowledgment before issuing any other
primitives:
.TP
.B Successful:
Correct acknowledgment of the primitive is indicated with the
.BR MX_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.  In this case, the resulting state is
.BR MXS_DETACHED .
.TP
.B Non-fatal errors:
These errors will be indicated with the
.BR MX_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.  In this case, the resulting state is unchanged and remains the
same as the state in which the primitive was issued.
.SH ERRORS
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ MXSYSERR ]
UNIX system error.
A UNIX system error occured during the execution of the primitive and the UNIX
error number,
.IR errno (3),
is indicated in the
.I mx_unix_error
field of the
.BR MX_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MXBADADDR ]
.\"Bad address format or content.
.\"The specified address was poorly formatted or contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ MXOUTSTATE ]
Interface out of state.
The primitive would place the interface out of state.  The
.B MX_DETACH_REQ
primitive is valid only in the
.B MXS_DETACHED
state.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MXBADOPT ]
.\"Bad options format or content.
.\"The options specified were poorly formatted or contains invalid information.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MXBADPARM ]
.\"Bad parameter format or content.
.\"A parameter contained in the specified options was poorly formatted or
.\"contained invalid information.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MXBADPARMTYPE ]
.\"Bad paramater structure type.
.\"The structure type within the options was unrecognized or invalid.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MXBADFLAG ]
.\"Bad flag.
.\"The flags specified were invalid.
.TP
.RB [ MXBADPRIM ]
Bad primitive.
The primitive type was unrecognized or the primitive was poorly formatted.
.TP
.RB [ MXNOTSUPP ]
Primitive not supported.
The primitive type was recognized, but is not supported on the requesting
stream or by the multiplex service provider.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MXBADSLOT ]
.\"Bad multplex slot.
.\"The slot specified in field
.\".I mx_slot
.\"was invalid or out of range.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MX_ATTACH_REQ (7),
.BR MX_OK_ACK (7),
.BR MX_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MXI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mxi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
