'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mxi.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2006/10/17 12:12:44 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/17 12:12:44 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mxi.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/17 12:12:44  brian
.\" - working up new packages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:20  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strchan.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strchan.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MXI 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Multiplex Interface (MXI)"
.SH NAME
.B mxi
\- Multiplex Interface (MXI)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/mxi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mxi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " mx_stream " = open(" mx_device ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The Multiplex Interface (MXI) specifies a
.IR STREAMS (4)-based
kernel-level instantiation of a Multiplex interface definition compatible with
the Media Gateway,
.BR mg (4),
driver.  The Multiplex Interface (MXI) enables the user of a multiplex to
access and use any variety of conforming communications media multiplexors,
without specific knowledge of the provider's protocol.  The service interface
is designed to support any media multiplex service provider, and does not
address issues concerning multiplex management, protocol performance, and
performance analysis tools.  The specification assumes that the reader is
familiar with the ITU-T synchronous digital hierarchy, ITU-T multiplex
specifications, and
.IR STREAMS (4).
.PP
.B MXI
specifies and interface that supports the service provided by various low
level device drivers such as the X400P-SS7 driver,
.BR x400p (4),
and X100P-SS7 driver
.BR x100p (4).
These specifications are targeted for use by developers and testers of
protocol modules that require multiplex service.
.SS "The Multiplex Service Provider"
.PP
The Multiplex Service Provider provides the means to manage the connection and
disconnection of channels within a multiplex.  It is a local control protocol
in the sense that there are not necessarily any remote peer entities.
Communications is between the local user entity and the local provider entity.
.SS "Model of the MXI"
.PP
The
.B MXI
defines the services provided by the multiplex service provider to multiplex
service user at the boundary between the multiplex service provider and the
multiplex service user entity.  The interface consists of a set of primitives
defined as
.IR STREAMS (4)
messages that provide access to the multiplex services, and are transferred
between the multiplex services user entity and the multiplex service provider
entity.  These primitives are of two types: ones that originate from the
multiplex serivce user (MXU), and others that originate from the multiplex
service provider (MXP).  The primitives that originate from the MXU make
requests to the MXP, or respond to an indication or event of the MXP.  The
primitives that originate from the MXP are either confirmation of a request or
are indications to the MXU that an event has occurred.
.PP
The
.B MXI
allows the MXP to be configured with any media multiplex (such as H.223
multiplexors) that also conform to the
.BR MXI .
An MXU can also be a user program that conforms to the
.B MXI
and accesses the MXP via
.BR putmsg (2)
and
.BR getmsg (2)
system calls.
.TP
.B MXI Services
The features of the
.B MXI
are defined in terms of services provided by the MXP, and the individual
primitives that may flow between the MXU and the MXP.
.TP
.B Local Management
The
.B MXI
specification also defines a set of local management functions.  These
services have significance only to the local stream.
.SH "MXI SERVICES DEFINITION"
.PP
The
.B MXI
services as categorized as
.IR "Local Management Services" ,
.IR "Connection Services" ,
.IR "Event Services" " and " "Media Services"
as follows:
.SS "Local Management Services"
.PP
The multiplex service provider provides the following local management services:
.PP
.B Information Service.
The information service provides the multiplex service user with the ability
to query the multiplex service provider concerning options and parameters
specific to the mutiplex service provider and associated with attached
channels.
The information service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_INFO_REQ (7):
Requests information about the associated multiplex service provider and
attached channels.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_INFO_ACK (7):
Indicates information about the associated multiplex service provider and
attached channels.
.PP
.B Options Management Service.
he options management service provides a mechanism whereby the multiplex
service user can query and change parameters associated with the attached
channels and manage options associated wtih the multiplex service provider.
The options management service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_OPTMGMT_REQ (7):
Manges the specified options.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_OPTMGMT_ACK (7):
Acknowledges that the management of the previously specified options is
complete.
.PP
.B Channel Attachment Service.
The channel attachment service provides the multiplex service user with the
ability to attach a specified channel to a slot in the multiplex associated
with the requesting stream for a stream associated with a
.B MX_STYLE2
multiplex service provider.  The channel attachment service is not available
on a stream associated with a
.B MX_STYLE1
multiplex service provider.
The channel attachment service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_ATTACH_REQ (7):
Requests that the specified channels be attached to the specified slots of the
associated multiplex.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_OK_ACK (7):
Acknowledges successful receipt of the channel attach request primitive.
.PP
.B Channel Detachment Service.
The chanel detachment service provides the multiplex service user with the
ability to detach a previously attached channel from the multiplex associated
with the requesting stream.  The requesting stream must be associated with a
.B MX_STYLE2
multiplex service provider and must have previously successfully executed a
.BR MX_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive.
The channel detachment service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_DETACH_REQ (7):
Requests that the specified channels be detached from the currently attached
slots of the associated multiplex.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_OK_ACK (7):
Acknowledges successful receipt of the channel detach request primitive.
.PP
.B Receipt Acknowledgment Service.
The receipt acknowledgment service provides an indication to the multiplex
service user of the positive or negative acknowledgment of the previous
primitive issued by the multiplex service user requiring local acknowledgment.
The receipt acknowledgment service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_OK_ACK (7):
Acknowledges successful receipt and processing of the previous request
primitive for which a local acknowledgment is outstanding.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_ERROR_ACK (7):
Acknowledges unsuccessful (non-fatal error) receipt of the previous request
primitive for which a local acknowledgment is outstanding.
.SS "Connection Services"
.PP
The multiplex service provider provides the following connection services:
.PP
.B Enable Service.
The enable service provides the multiplex service user with the ability to
enable the multiplex and attached channels.  Some multiplex service providers
can enable channels (prepare them for operation) locally, and others will
require exchanges with the transmission peers that will take some time before
a multiplex can be enabled.
The enable service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_ENABLE_REQ (7):
Request that the multiplex and attached channels be enabled.  This primitive
requires local acknowledgment.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_OK_ACK (7):
Acknowledges successful receipt of the enable request primitive.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_ENABLE_CON (7):
Confirms that the multiplex and attached channels have been enabled as
requested.
.PP
.B Disable Service.
The disable service provides the multiplex service user with the ability to
disable the associated multiplex and attached channels.   Some multiplex
service providers can disable the multiplex and attached channels (remove them
from operation) locally, and others will require exchanges with the
transmission peer that may take some time before the multiplex can be
disabled.  In addition, it is possible that an autonomous disabling of the
multiplex occurs without the request of the multiplex service user.  In this
case, the multiplex disable service is used to indicate to the multiplex
service user that an autonomous disabling of the multiplex has occured.
The disable service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_DISABLE_REQ (7):
Requests that the multiplex and attached channels be disabled.
This primitive requires local acknowledgment.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_OK_ACK (7):
Acknowledges successful receipt of the disable request primitive.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_DISABLE_CON (7):
Confirms that the associated multiplex and attached channels have been
disabled as requested.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_DISABLE_IND (7):
Indicates that the associated multiplex and attached channels have been
autonomously disabled.
.PP
.B Connect Service.
The connect service provides the multiplex service user with the ability to
connect a channel in the receive and/or transmit directions within an enabled
multiplex.  Some multiplex service providers can connect attached channels
locally, and others will require exchanges with the transmission peer that
will take some time before the channel can be connected in the specified
direction.
The connect service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_CONNECT_REQ (7):
Requests that the specified attached and enabled channels within the multiplex
be connected in the specified directions.
This primitive requires local acknowledgment.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_OK_ACK (7):
Acknowledges successful receipt of the channel connection request primitive.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_CONNECT_CON (7):
Confirms that the indicated attached and enabled channels have been connected
in the indicated directions as requested.
.PP
.B Disconnect Service.
The disconnect service provides the multiplex service user with the ability to
disconnect a connected channel within the multiplex in the the specified
receive or transmit directions.  Some multiplex service providers can
disconnect channels locally, and others will require and exchange with the
transmission peer that may take some time before the channel can be
disconnected in the specified direction.  In addition, it is possible that an
autonomous disconnect occurs without the request of the multiplex service
user.  In this case, the channel disconnect service is used to indicate to the
multiplex service user that an autonomous disconnection has occured in the
indicated directions.
The disconnect service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_DISCONNECT_REQ (7):
Requests that the specified attached, enabled and connected channels within
the multiplex be disconnected in the specified directions.
This primitive requires local acknowledgment.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_OK_ACK (7):
Acknowledges successful receipt of the channel disconnection request primitive.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_DISCONNECT_CON (7):
Confirms that the indicated attached, enabled and connected channels have been
disconnected in the indicated directions as requested.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_DISCONNECT_IND (7):
Indicates that the indicated channels have been autonomously disconnected from
the multiplex in the indicated directions.
.SS "Event Services"
.PP
The multiplex service provider provides the following event services:
.PP
.B Notification Service.
The notification service is used by the multiplex service provider to inform
the multiplex service user that a specific event has occurred.
The notification service uses the following primitives:
.SS "Media Services"
.PP
The multiplex service provider provides the following media services:
.PP
.B Data Transfer Service.
The data transfer service is ued by the multiplex service user to request the
transmission of channel media data on the specified channel within the
multiplex.  It is also used by the multiplex service provider to indicate the
reception of channel media data on the indicated channel.
The data transfer service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_DATA_REQ (7):
Requests that the specified media data be transmitted on the specified
channel within the multiplex.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MX_DATA_IND (7):
Indicates that the indicated media data was received on the indicated channel
within the multiplex.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MX_ATTACH_REQ (7),
.BR MX_CONNECT_CON (7),
.BR MX_CONNECT_REQ (7),
.BR MX_DATA_IND (7),
.BR MX_DATA_REQ (7),
.BR MX_DETACH_REQ (7),
.BR MX_DISABLE_CON (7),
.BR MX_DISABLE_IND (7),
.BR MX_DISABLE_REQ (7),
.BR MX_DISCONNECT_CON (7),
.BR MX_DISCONNECT_IND (7),
.BR MX_DISCONNECT_REQ (7),
.BR MX_ENABLE_CON (7),
.BR MX_ENABLE_REQ (7),
.BR MX_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR MX_INFO_ACK (7),
.BR MX_INFO_REQ (7),
.BR MX_OK_ACK (7),
.BR MX_OPTMGMT_ACK (7),
.BR MX_OPTMGMT_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for MXI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mxi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
