@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: mail.texi,v 0.9.2.4 2006/08/28 10:41:40 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/08/28 10:41:40 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7 Project} provides a website dedicated to the software
packages released by the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.

@subsubheading Bug Reports

Please send bug reports to @email{bugs@@openss7.org} using the @file{send-pr} script included in the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package, only after reading the @file{BUGS} file in the release, or
@xrefman{Problem Reports}.  You can access the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/bugreport.html, OpenSS7 GNATS database} directly via the web, however,
the preferred method for sending new bug reports is via mail with the @file{send-pr} script.

@subsubheading Mailing Lists

@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, The OpenSS7 Project} provides a number of general discussion
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/mailman/listinfo,, Mailing Lists} for discussion concerning the
@cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package as well as other packages released by
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, The OpenSS7 Project}.

These are @command{mailman} mailing lists and so have convenient web interfaces for subscribers to
control their settings.  See @uref{http://www.openss7.org/mailinglist.html}.

The mailing lists are as follows:

@table @file
@item @uref{http://www.openss7.org/mailman/listinfo/openss7,, openss7}
The @file{openss7} mailing list is for general enquiries, information exchange and announcements
regarding the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.  This is our original mailing list
and takes the highest amount of traffic.

@item @uref{http://www.openss7.org/mailman/listinfo/openss7-announce,, openss7-announce}
The @file{openss7-announce} mailing list is for announcements related to the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.  This list will accept announcements posted by
subscribers.  Subscribe to this list if you are interested in announcements from the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org,, OpenSS7 Project}, subscribers and sponsors, related to the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org,, OpenSS7 Project} or STREAMS, SS7, SIGTRAN or SCTP in general.

@item @uref{http://www.openss7.org/mailman/listinfo/openss7-cvs,, openss7-cvs}
The @file{openss7-cvs} mailing list is for automatic CVS log reporting.  You must get permission of
the owner to subscribe to this list.  Subscribers are not allowed to post to this list, this is
merely for distributing notification of changes to the CVS repository.h

@item @uref{http://www.openss7.org/mailman/listinfo/openss7-develop,, openss7-develop}
The @file{openss7-develop} mailing list is for email exchange related to the development projects
under the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.  This includes development requests,
proposals, requests for comment or proposal.  Subscribe to this list if you are interested in
ongoing development details regarding the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.

@item @uref{http://www.openss7.org/mailman/listinfo/openss7-test,, openss7-test}
The @file{openss7-test} mailing list is for email exchange related to the testing of code under the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.  This specifically relates to conformance testing,
verification testing, interoperability testing and beta testing.  Subscribe to this list if you are
interested in participating in and receiving ongoing details of test activities under the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.

@item @uref{http://www.openss7.org/mailman/listinfo/openss7-bugs,, openss7-bugs}
The @file{openss7-bugs} mailing list is specifically tailored to bug tracking.  The mailing list
takes a feed from the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/bugreport.html,, OpenSS7 GNATS} bug tracking
system and accepts posting of responses to bug reports, tracking and resolution.  Subscribe to this
list if you are interested in receiving detailed @cite{OpenSS7} release code bug tracking
information.  This list is not archived; for historical information on problem reports, see our
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/bugreport.html,, GNATS databases}.

@item @uref{http://www.openss7.org/mailman/listinfo/openss7-updates,, openss7-updates}
The @file{openss7-updates} mailing list provides updates on @uref{http://www.openss7.org//,, OpenSS7
Project} code releases and ongoing activities.  Subscribers are not allowed to post to this list;
this list is for official @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project} announcements only.
Subscribe to this list if you are interested in receiving updates concerning official releases and
activities of the @uref{http://www.opensss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.

@item @uref{http://www.openss7.org/mailman/listinfo/openss7-streams,, openss7-streams}
The @file{openss7-streams} mailing list is for email exchange related to the @dfn{STREAMS}
development projects under the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.  This includes
development requests, proposals, requests for comment or proposal.  Subscribe to this list if you
are interested in ongoing development details regarding the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7
Project} @dfn{STREAMS} components.

@end table

@subsubheading Spam

To avoid spam being sent to the members of the @cite{OpenSS7} mailing list(s), we have blocked mail
from non-subscribers.  Please subscribe to the mailing list before attempting to post to them.
(Attempts to post when not subscribed get bounced.)

As an additional measure against spam, subscriber lists for all @cite{OpenSS7} mailing lists are not
accessible to non-subscribers; for most lists subscriber  lists are only accessible to the list
administrator.  This keeps your mailing address from being picked off our website by bulk mailers.

@subsubheading Acceptable Use Policy

It is acceptable to post professional and courteous messages regarding the @cite{OpenSS7} package or
any general information or questions concerning @dfn{STREAMS}, @dfn{SS7}, @dfn{SIGTRAN}, @dfn{SCTP}
or telecommunications applications in general.

@subsubheading Large Attachments

The mailing list is blocked from messages of greater than @code{40k}.   If you have attachments
(patches, test programs, etc.) and you mail them to the list, it will bounce to the list
administrator.  If you are interested in  making your patches, test programs, test results or other
large attachments available to the members of the mailing list, state in the message that you would
like them posted and the list administrator will place them in the mail archives.

