'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sctp.4.man,v 0.9.2.7 2006/10/14 06:21:36 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/14 06:21:36 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sctp.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/10/14 06:21:36  brian
.\" - updated manual pages for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/25 08:54:33  brian
.\" - updated references and manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:44:32  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strsctp.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strsctp.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH SCTP 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sctp
\- Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netinet/sctp.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_sctp.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/tpi_sctp.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/xti_sctp.h>
.HP
.BI "int " sctp_stream " = open(" sctp_device ", " flags );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int " sctp_xtistr " = t_open(" sctp_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " sctp_socket " = socket(" PF_INET ", " socket_type ", " \fRIPPROTO_SCTP\fR );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B SCTP
is an implementation of the Stream Control Transmission Protocol
.RB ( SCTP )
defined in RFC 2960,
.[
rfc2960
.]
RFC 3309
.[
rfc3309
.]
and RFC 4460.
.[
rfc4460
.]
.B SCTP
provides reliable delivery of ordered or unordered packets over a full duplex
connection between two streams on top of
.BR ip (4).
.B SCTP
can guarantee that the data arrives in order on a stream, if requested, and
retransmits lost packets.  It generates and checks a per-packet checksum to
catch transmission errors.
.B SCTP
uses the services of the Internet Protocol,
.BR ip (4),
to transfer packets.
.\".PP
.\".B SCTP
.\"is implemented as a
.\".IR STREAMS (4)
.\"multiplexing driver.
.\".BR ip (4)
.\"streams are lined under the
.\".BR SCTP
.\"multiplexing driver using the
.\".IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
.\"commands of
.\".BR streamio (7),
.\"to provide network services to
.\".BR SCTP .
.\"Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.\".BR sctp_ioctl (4).
.PP
.B SCTP
is implemented as a (non-multiplexing)
.IR STREAMS (4)
pseudo-device driver.
.B SCTP
provides two stream types.  To select one of the stream types,
.I sctp_device
can be one of the following:
.TP
.I /dev/sctp_n
This device provides the
.B SCTP
protocol services using the N-primitives of the
Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
used for the Stream Control Transmission Protocol as described in
.BR npi_sctp (7).
The
.BR npi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR sockets (3)
library and provides the
.B SCTP
interface using sockets as described in
.BR sctp (7).
This stream provides connection-oriented NPI services, with specialized
support for connectionless primitives.
.TP
.I /dev/sctp_t
This device provides the
.B SCTP
protocol service interface using the T-primitives of the Transport Provider
Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
used of the Stream Control Transmission Protocol, as described in
.BR tpi_sctp (7)
for connection oriented trasnport service with orderly release and specialized
support for connectionsless primitives.
The
.BR tpi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR libxnet "(3) or " xti (3)
library and provides the
.B SCTP
interface using XTI as described in
.BR xti_sctp (3).
.PP
.B SCTP
provides three socket types for use by the
.BR sockets (3)
library
.BR socket (7)
calls.
.B SCTP
provides sockets in the protocol family
.B PF_INET
using the protocol number
.BR IPPROTO_SCTP .
The
.I socket_type
argument can be one of the following:
.TP
.B SOCK_SEQPACKET
A standard
.I SOCK_SEQPACKET
socket that preserves message boundaries, Nagles at the association level, and
provides ordered and unordered reliable and partial reliable, acknnowledged
and unacknowledged delivery on multiple streams.
This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/sctp_t
transport service provider.
.TP
.B SOCK_STREAM
A
.BR tcp (7)
compatible
.I SOCK_STREAM
socket that does not preserve message boundaries, Nagles at the stream level,
and provides ordered and out-of-band unacknowledged deliver on a single
stream.  This is an optional capability of
.BR SCTP
that provides for maximum compatability with applications written for
.BR tcp (4).
This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/sctp_t
transport service provider.
.TP
.B SOCK_RDM
An
.BR rudp (7)
compatible
.I SOCK_RDM
socket that preserves message boundaries, does not Nagle, and provides only
unordered but reliable or partially reliable delivery on multiple streams.
This is an optional capability of
.B SCTP
that provides for maximum compatibility with applications written for
.BR rudp (7).
This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/sctp_t
transport service provider.
.TP
.B SOCK_DGRAM
A
.BR udp (7)
compatible
.I SOCK_DGRAM
socket that preserves message boudnaries, does not Nagle, and provides only
unordered (but reliable or partially reliable) delivery on multiple streams.
This is an optional capability of
.BR SCTP
that provides for maximum compatibility with applications written for
.BR udp (7).
The socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/sctp_t
trasnport service provider and its specialized connectionless transport
primitive support.
.PP
The following entries in
.B /etc/protosw
or
.B /etc/sock2path
provides the information necessary for
.BR socksys (4)
to use these devices:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lllll1l1l.
\fCPF_INET:\fCSOCK_SEQPACKET:\fC0:\fC/dev/sctp_t:\fC# tpi:\fCcots:\fCord
\fCPF_INET:\fCSOCK_SEQPACKET:\fCIPPROTO_SCTP:\fC/dev/sctp_t:\fC# tpi:\fCcots:\fCord
\fCPF_INET:\fCSOCK_STREAM:\fCIPPROTO_SCTP:\fC/dev/sctp_t:\fC# tpi:\fCcots:\fCord
\fCPF_INET:\fCSOCK_RDM:\fC0:\fC/dev/sctp_t:\fC# tpi:\fCcots:\fCord
\fCPF_INET:\fCSOCK_RDM:\fCIPPROTO_SCTP:\fC/dev/sctp_t:\fC# tpi:\fCcots:\fCord
\fCPF_INET:\fCSOCK_DGRAM:\fCIPPROTO_SCTP:\fC/dev/sctp_t:\fC# tpi:\fCclts
.TE
\fR
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR socksys (4),
.BR protosw (5),
.BR sock2path (5).
.PP
The following entries in
.B /etc/netconfig
provides the information necessary to use TI-RPC with these devices:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lllllll.
\fCsctp:\fCtpi_cots_ord:\fCvm:\fCinet:\fCsctp:\fC/dev/sctp_t:\fC\-
\fCsctp6:\fCtpi_cots_ord:\fCvm:\fCinet6:\fCsctp:\fC/dev/sctp6_t:\fC\-
.TE
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR netconfig (3),
.BR netconfig (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.PP
.B SCTP
does not provide any specific input-output controls of its own.  All
interfaces support
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.BR streamio (7)
.I I_STR
system calls on the
.IR sctp_stream ", " sctp_xtistr " or " sctp_socket .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.PP
.B SCTP
has several implementations.  This manpage is for the
.IR STREAMS (4)
implementation.  There is also an
.BR INET (4)
implementation which provides
.BR tpi (7)
access to the
.I OpenSS7
Linux NET4 version of
.BR SCTP .
For more information on this version, see
.BR sctp (7).
.PP
Sockets support is only available using the
.BR strsock (5)
sockets API package for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
TI-RPC support is only available using the
.BR strnsl (5)
package for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <sys/socket.h> ,
.BR <netint/sctp.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_sctp.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_sctp.h> ,
.BR <sys/xti_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/xti_sctp.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
The following modules are typically used with the
.BR sctp (4)
driver:
.TP
.BR tpiperf (4)
A TPI performance test module specialy suited to
.BR sctp (4)
performance testing is provided with the package.  See the
.BR tpiperf (4)
manual page for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
The
.BR sctp (4)
driver provides the following devices, described above:
.TP
.IR /dev/sctp_n ", " /dev/sctp_t
These are the NPI and TPI
.BR clone (4)
minor devices that permit a user to open either an
.BR npi (7)
Stream or a
.BR tpi (7)
Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR ip (4),
.BR npi (7),
.BR npi_sctp (7),
.BR protosw (5),
.BR rudp (7),
.BR sctp (7),
.BR sctp (8),
.BR sctp_ioctl (4),
.BR sctp_ioctl (4).
.BR socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR socksys (4),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR STREAMS (4),
.BR tcp (7),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR tpi_sctp (7),
.BR udp (7),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_sctp (3).
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
rfc3873
.]
.[
rfc3758
.]
.[
addip-08
.]
.[
sctpig-10
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
