% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
% vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=100
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: lli.texi,v 0.9.2.4 2008-08-03 05:05:19 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2008-08-03 05:05:19 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================
\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=100
@c %**start of header
@setfilename lli.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Link Layer Interface
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
@c %**end of header

@dircategory OpenSS7
@direntry
* LLI: (lli).			Link Layer Interface Specification
@end direntry

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Link Layer Interface
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file documents the OpenSS7 @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, for
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} published by
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation}.


Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}


All Rights Reserved.

Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results, provided the printed
document carries copying permission notice identical to this one except for the removal of this
paragraph (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all implied
warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title; that
the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.

OpenSS7 Corporation reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any reason,
including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies, utilization
of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the design of any
techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  OpenSS7 Corporation is under
no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Link Layer Interface
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification

@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Distributed with Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@sp 2
@subtitle Copyright @copyright{} 2008  OpenSS7 Corporation
@subtitle All Rights Reserved.
@sp 4
@quotation
@subheading Abstract
This document is a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} containing technical details concerning the implementation of
the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} for OpenSS7.  It contains recommendations on software architecture as well
as platform and system applicability of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  It provides abstraction of the
LAPB Protocol (ISO/IEC 7776) and LLC2 Protocol (ISO/IEC 8802) service interface to these components
as well as providing a basis for link layer control for other protocols.
@end quotation
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}

@noindent
All Rights Reserved.

@subsubheading Published by:
@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
Unauthorized distribution or duplication is prohibited.

@sp 1

@ignore
@noindent
This software and related documentation is protected by copyright and distributed under licenses
restricting its use, copying, distribution and decompilation.  No part of this software or related
documentation may be reproduced in any form by any means without the prior written authorization of
the copyright holder, and licensors, if any.

@noindent
The recipient of this document, by its retention and use, warrants that the recipient will protect
this information and keep it confidential, and will not disclose the information contained in this
document without the written permission of its owner.

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,,OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise this software and
documentation for any reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by
various agencies, utilization of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of
changes in the design of any techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,,OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any feature
listed herein.
@end ignore

@noindent
Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@subsubheading Notice:

@noindent
@b{OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE;
THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN
NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.}

@sp 1

@noindent
OpenSS7 Corporation reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any reason,
including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies, utilization
of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the design of any
techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  OpenSS7 Corporation is under
no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@iftex
@headings off
@everyheading @thistitle @| @thisfile @| @thischaptername
@evenheading @thischapter @| @| @thisfile
@oddheading @thistitle @| @| @thischaptername
@everyfooting Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} @| @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @thispage
@evenfooting @thispage @| @| Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@oddfooting @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @| @thispage
@end iftex
@page

@c Define an index of primitives
@defcodeindex pr
@c Define an index of primitive values
@defcodeindex pv
@c Define an index of primitive error values
@defcodeindex pe
@c Define an index of protocol states
@defcodeindex st
@c Define an index of input-output controls
@defcodeindex ct
@c Define an index of manual pages.
@defcodeindex mp

@c frags out automake
@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for text, html and info
@syncodeindex pr cp
@syncodeindex pv cp
@syncodeindex pe cp
@syncodeindex st cp
@syncodeindex mp cp
@syncodeindex tp cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex ct cp
@c @end ifnottex

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi

@iftex

@macro prim{name}
@code{\name\}@prindex \name\
@end macro

@macro pval{name}
@code{\name\}@pvindex \name\
@end macro

@macro perr{name}
@code{\name\}@peindex \name\
@end macro

@macro psta{name}
@code{\name\}@stindex \name\
@end macro

@macro parm{name}
@code{\name\}@vrindex \name\
@end macro

@macro pioc{name}
@code{\name\}@ctindex \name\
@end macro

@end iftex

@ifnottex
@c skip deep indexing for plain text, html and info
@c it messes up column with maximums (texinfo bug)

@macro prim{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro pval{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro perr{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro psta{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro parm{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro pioc{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@end ifnottex

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Link Layer Interface
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::
* Model of the Link Layer::
* LLI Services::
* LLI Message Primitives::
@c * Allowable Sequence of LLI Primitives::
* LLI Input-Output Controls::
* LLI Header Files::
@c * LLI Library::
* LLI Drivers and Modules::
* LLI Utilities::
* LLI File Formats::
* LLI Compatibility and Porting::
* Glossary of LLI Terms and Acronyms::
* References::
@c @iftex
@c * Indices::
@c @end iftex
@c @ifnottex
* Index::
@c @end ifnottex
@end menu

@iftex
@c insert list of figures and tables for printed manuals
@page
@heading List of Figures
@listoffloats Figure
@page
@heading List of Tables
@listoffloats Table
@end iftex

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@cite{UNIX System V Release 3.2} included a Logical Link Interface (LLI) that was later standardized
as the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) by the @cite{Open Group}.@footnote{Evidence of this can
still be found in the @file{dlpi.h} header file distributed by @cite{The Open Group} in the DLPI
standard.  Reference is made in the header file to backward compatibility to the LLI interface.}

The Link Layer Interface (LLI) was developed by Spider Systems, Ltd., (now a division of Emerson
Power) and is widely available on many platforms.  For example, @cite{AIX AIXlink/X.25}, @cite{HP-UX
X.25/9000}, @cite{IRIX IRIS SX.25}, @cite{PT X.25}, @cite{RadiSys WAN}, @cite{SBE X.25},
@cite{Solaris SunLink X.25} and @cite{Solaris Solstice X.25}, implement the Link Layer Interface
(LLI).@footnote{But, for the most part, it is not called the @i{Link Lyaer Interface}, but is
instead sunk inside the Network Layer Interface (NLI).}

The Link Layer Interface (LLI) as designed to be used directly with standard @dfn{STREAMS} system
calls and does not require the use of a cooperating user space shared library.  Applications
programs directly use the @command{getmsg(2s)}, @command{getpmsg(2)}, @command{putmsg(2s)},
@command{putpmsg(2)} and @command{ioctl(2)} system calls.@footnote{See @manref{getmsg(2s)},
@manref{getpmsg(2)}, @manref{putmsg(2s)}, @manref{putpmsg(2)} and @manref{ioctl(2)} manual pages.}
Nevertheless, user shared object libraries can easily be constructed using this @dfn{STREAMS}
service primitive interface.

The system header files that must be included when compiling user applications,
or @dfn{STREAMS} drivers and modules that use the interface, are detailed in
@ref{LLI Header Files}.

A user library, @file{libsx25}, is provided, not for interfacing to the message primitive service
interface, but for providing various helper functions when using the @dfn{STREAMS} service
interface.  This library is detailed in @ref{LLI Library}.

@node Model of the Link Layer
@chapter Model of the Link Layer

@node LLI Services
@chapter LLI Services

@menu
* LLI Commands::
* LLI Data Structures::
@end menu

@node LLI Commands
@section LLI Commands

@node LLI Data Structures
@section LLI Data Structures

@node LLI Message Primitives
@chapter LLI Message Primitives

Although it perhaps did not at first, the LLI uses the service primitives and
message format of the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface}, @ref{DLPI,,DLPI}.

@c @node Allowable Sequence of LLI Primitives
@c @chapter Allowable Sequence of LLI Primitives

@node LLI Input-Output Controls
@chapter LLI Input-Output Controls

@menu
* Input-Output Control Data Structures::
* Input-Output Control Commands::
@end menu

@node Input-Output Control Data Structures
@section Input-Output Control Data Structures

@menu
* LI_PLAIN - Plain Data Structures::
* LI_SNID - Subnetwork Identifier Data Strucures::
* LI_STATUS - Status Data Strucures::
* LI_STATS - Statistics Data Structures::
* LI_GSTATS - Global Statistics Data Structures::
* LI_LAPBTUNE - LAPB Tuning Data Structures::
* LI_LLC2TUNE - LLC2 Tuning Data Structures::
* LI_MLPTUNE - MLP Tuning Data Structures::
@end menu

The @file{@value{_includedir}/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-sys/@-snet/@-ll_@-control.h}
header file (@file{<sys/@-snet/@-ll_@-control.h>} with proper compile flags)
defines a number of structures, pointers to which are used as argumnets to
input-output controls.  These structures fall into four classes, identified by
the value of the first byte of the structure, as follows:

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .85

@item @pval{LI_PLAIN} @tab A @type{ll_hdioc} structure that identifies the
subnetwork (link) 

@item @pval{LI_SNID} @tab A @type{ll_snioc} structure that identifies the
subnetwork (link) 

@item @pval{LI_STATUS} @tab A @type{ll_stnioc} structure that identifies the
subnetwork (link)

@item @pval{LI_STATS} @tab A @type{ll_stioc} or @type{mlp_stioc} structure that
identifies the subnetwork (link) 

@item @pval{LI_GSTATS} @tab A @type{ll_gstioc} or @type{mlp_gstioc} structure
that identifies the subnetwork (link) 

@item @pval{LI_LAPBTUNE} @tab A @type{lapb_tnioc} structure that identifies the
subnetwork (link) 

@item @pval{LI_LLC2TUNE} @tab A @type{llc2_tnioc} structure that identifies the
subnetwork (link) 

@item @pval{LI_MLPTUNE} @tab A @type{mlp_tnioc} structure that identifies the
subnetwork (link)

@end multitable

@node LI_PLAIN - Plain Data Structures
@subsection LI_PLAIN - Plain Data Structures

@node ll_hdioc Structure
@subsubsection ll_hdioc Structure

The @type{ll_hdioc} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
struct ll_hdioc @{
    uint8_t lli_type;
    uint8_t lli_spare[3];
    uint32_t lli_snid;
@};
@end group
@end example

The @type{ll_hdioc} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item lli_type
Always @pval{LLI_PLAIN}.
@item lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by issuer and ignored by responder.
@item lli_snid
Specifies the subnetwork identifier (link identifier) for the operation.
@end table

@node LI_SNID - Subnetwork Identifier Data Strucures
@subsection LI_SNID - Subnetwork Identifier Data Strucures

@node ll_snioc Structure
@subsubsection ll_snioc Structure

The @type{ll_snioc} structure is used in the @pioc{L_SETSNID}, @pioc{L_GETSNID},
@pioc{M_SETSNID} and @pioc{M_GETSNID} input-output controls.

The @type{ll_snioc} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
struct ll_snioc @{
    uint8_t lli_type;
    uint8_t lli_class;
    uint8_t lli_spare[2];
    uint32_t lli_snid;
    uint32_t lli_index;
    uint32_t lli_slp_snid;
    uint16_t lli_slp_pri;
@};
@end group
@end example

The @type{ll_snioc} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item lli_type
Always @pval{LLI_SNID}.
@item lli_class
Specifies the class of the link being registered.  This field can be one of the
following values:
@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @pval{LC_LLC1} @tab LLC Type 1 link.
@item @pval{LC_LLC2} @tab LLC TYpe 2 link.
@item @pval{LC_LAPBDTE} @tab LAPB DTE.
@item @pval{LC_LAPBXDTE} @tab LAPB DTE with extended addressing.
@item @pval{LC_LAPBDCE} @tab LAPB DCE.
@item @pval{LC_LAPBXDCE} @tab LAPB DCE with extended addressing.
@item @pval{LC_LAPDTE} @tab LAP DTE.
@item @pval{LC_LAPDCE} @tab LAP DCE.
@item @pval{LC_HDLC} @tab HDLC.
@item @pval{LC_HDLCX} @tab HDLC with extended addressing.
@item @pval{LC_MLAPBDTE} @tab LAPB DTE multilink.
@item @pval{LC_MLAPBXDTE} @tab LAPB DTE multilink with extended addressing.
@item @pval{LC_MLAPBDCE} @tab LAPB DCE multilink.
@item @pval{LC_MLAPBXDCE} @tab LAPB DCE multilink with extended addressing.
@item @pval{LC_MLP} @tab MLP link.
@end multitable
@item lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by issuer and ignored by responder.
@item lli_snid
Specifies the subnetwork identifier (link identifier) for the operation.
@item lli_index
Specifies the lower multiplex identifier of the Stream linked under a
multiplexing driver as returned from @command{I_LINK(7)}.@footnote{See the
@manref{I_LINK(7)} manual page.}
@item lli_slp_snid
Specifies the subnetwork (link) identifier for an SLP link within an MLP link.
@item lli_slp_pri
Specifies the subnetwork (link) priority within an MLP link.
@end table

@node LI_STATUS - Status Data Strucures
@subsection LI_STATUS - Status Data Strucures

@node ll_stnioc Structure
@subsubsection ll_stnioc Structure

The @type{ll_stnioc} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
struct ll_stnioc @{
    uint8_t lli_type;
    uint8_t lli_spare[3];
    uint32_t lli_snid;
@};
@end group
@end example

The @type{ll_stnioc} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item lli_type
Always @pval{LLI_STATUS}.
@item lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by issuer and ignored by responder.
@item lli_snid
Specifies the subnetwork identifier (link identifier) for the operation.
@end table

@node LI_STATS - Statistics Data Structures
@subsection LI_STATS - Statistics Data Structures

@node lapb_stioc Structure
@subsubsection lapb_stioc Structure

The @type{lapb_stioc} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
struct lapb_stioc @{
    uint8_t lli_type;
    uint8_t state;
    uint16_t lli_spare;
    uint32_t lli_snid;
    lapbstats_t lli_stats;
@};
@end group
@end example

The @type{lapb_stioc} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item lli_type
Always @pval{LLI_STATS}.
@item state
@item lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by issuer and ignored by responder.
@item lli_snid
Specifies the subnetwork identifier (link identifier) for the operation.
@item lli_stats
Contains the @type{lapbstats_t} structure described in @ref{lapbstats_t
Structure}.
@end table

@node lapbstats_t Structure
@subsubsection lapbstats_t Structure

The @type{lapbstats_t} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
typedef struct lapb_stats @{
    uint32_t lapbmonarray[49];
@} lapbstats_t;
@end group
@end example

The @type{lapbstats_t} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item lapbmonarray
Provides an array of 32-bit unsigned integers containing statistics.  The
indexes of the elements of the array are as follows:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .25 .7
@item 0 @tab @pval{tx_ign} @tab -
@item 1 @tab @pval{rx_badlen} @tab -
@item 2 @tab @pval{rx_unknown} @tab -
@item 3 @tab @pval{t1_exp} @tab -
@item 4 @tab @pval{t4_exp} @tab -
@item 5 @tab @pval{t4_n2_exp} @tab -
@item 6 @tab @pval{RR_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 7 @tab @pval{RR_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 8 @tab @pval{RR_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 9 @tab @pval{RR_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 10 @tab @pval{RR_tx_cmd_p} @tab -
@item 11 @tab @pval{RNR_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 12 @tab @pval{RNR_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 13 @tab @pval{RNR_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 14 @tab @pval{RNR_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 15 @tab @pval{RNR_tx_cmd_p} @tab -
@item 16 @tab @pval{REJ_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 17 @tab @pval{REJ_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 18 @tab @pval{REJ_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 19 @tab @pval{REJ_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 20 @tab @pval{REJ_tx_cmd_p} @tab -
@item 21 @tab @pval{SABME_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 22 @tab @pval{SABME_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 23 @tab @pval{DISC_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 24 @tab @pval{DISC_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 25 @tab @pval{UA_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 26 @tab @pval{UA_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 27 @tab @pval{DM_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 28 @tab @pval{DM_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 29 @tab @pval{I_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 30 @tab @pval{I_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 31 @tab @pval{FRMR_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 32 @tab @pval{FRMR_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 33 @tab @pval{tx_rtr} @tab -
@item 34 @tab @pval{rx_bad} @tab -
@item 35 @tab @pval{rx_dud} @tab -
@item 36 @tab @pval{rx_ign} @tab -
@item 37 @tab @pval{XID_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 38 @tab @pval{XID_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 39 @tab @pval{XID_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 40 @tab @pval{XID_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 41 @tab @pval{TEST_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 42 @tab @pval{TEST_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 43 @tab @pval{TEST_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 44 @tab @pval{TEST_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 45 @tab @pval{SABM_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 46 @tab @pval{SABM_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 47 @tab @pval{SARM_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 48 @tab @pval{SARM_tx_cmd} @tab -
@end multitable
@end table

@node llc2_stioc Structure
@subsubsection llc2_stioc Structure

The @type{llc2_stioc} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
struct llc2_stioc @{
    uint8_t lli_type;
    uint8_t lli_spare[3];
    uint32_t lli_snid;
    llc2stats_t lli_stats;
@};
@end group
@end example

The @type{llc2_stioc} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item lli_type
Always @pval{LLI_STATS}.
@item lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by issuer and ignored by responder.
@item lli_snid
Specifies the subnetwork identifier (link identifier) for the operation.
@item lli_stats
Contains the @type{llc2stats_t} structure containing the statistics described in
@ref{llc2stats_t Structure}.
@end table

@node llc2stats_t Structure
@subsubsection llc2stats_t Structure

The @type{llc2stats_t} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
typedef struct llc2_stats @{
    uint32_t llc2monarray[49];
@} llc2stats_t;
@end group
@end example

The @type{llc2stats_t} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item llc2monarray
Provides an array of 32-bit unsigned integers containing the statistics.  The
indices of the individual elements are as follows:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .25 .7
@item 0 @tab @pval{tx_ign} @tab -
@item 1 @tab @pval{rx_badlen} @tab -
@item 2 @tab @pval{rx_unknown} @tab -
@item 3 @tab @pval{t1_exp} @tab -
@item 4 @tab @pval{t4_exp} @tab -
@item 5 @tab @pval{t4_n2_exp} @tab -
@item 6 @tab @pval{RR_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 7 @tab @pval{RR_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 8 @tab @pval{RR_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 9 @tab @pval{RR_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 10 @tab @pval{RR_tx_cmd_p} @tab -
@item 11 @tab @pval{RNR_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 12 @tab @pval{RNR_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 13 @tab @pval{RNR_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 14 @tab @pval{RNR_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 15 @tab @pval{RNR_tx_cmd_p} @tab -
@item 16 @tab @pval{REJ_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 17 @tab @pval{REJ_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 18 @tab @pval{REJ_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 19 @tab @pval{REJ_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 20 @tab @pval{REJ_tx_cmd_p} @tab -
@item 21 @tab @pval{SABME_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 22 @tab @pval{SABME_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 23 @tab @pval{DISC_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 24 @tab @pval{DISC_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 25 @tab @pval{UA_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 26 @tab @pval{UA_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 27 @tab @pval{DM_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 28 @tab @pval{DM_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 29 @tab @pval{I_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 30 @tab @pval{I_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 31 @tab @pval{FRMR_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 32 @tab @pval{FRMR_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 33 @tab @pval{tx_rtr} @tab -
@item 34 @tab @pval{rx_bad} @tab -
@item 35 @tab @pval{rx_dud} @tab -
@item 36 @tab @pval{rx_ign} @tab -
@item 37 @tab @pval{XID_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 38 @tab @pval{XID_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 39 @tab @pval{XID_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 40 @tab @pval{XID_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 41 @tab @pval{TEST_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 42 @tab @pval{TEST_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 43 @tab @pval{TEST_tx_cmd} @tab -
@item 44 @tab @pval{TEST_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 45 @tab @pval{I_rx_rsp} @tab -
@item 46 @tab @pval{I_tx_rsp} @tab -
@item 47 @tab @pval{UI_rx_cmd} @tab -
@item 48 @tab @pval{UI_tx_cmd} @tab -
@end multitable
@end table

@node mlp_stioc Structure
@subsubsection mlp_stioc Structure

The @type{mlp_stioc} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
struct mlp_stioc @{
    uint8_t lli_type;
    uint8_t state;
    uint16_t lli_spare;
    uint32_t lli_snid;
    mlpstats_t lli_stats;
@};
@end group
@end example

The @type{mlp_stioc} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item lli_type
Always @pval{LLI_STATS}.
@item lli_state
Provides the state of the link.
@item lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by issuer and ignored by responder.
@item lli_snid
Specifies the subnetwork identifier (link identifier) for the operation.
@item lli_stats
Contains the @type{mlpstats_t} structure containing the statistics described in
@ref{mlpstats_t Structure}.
@end table

@node mlpstats_t Structure
@subsubsection mlpstats_t Structure

The @type{mlpstats_t} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
typedef struct mlp_stats @{
    uint32_t mlpmonarray[12];
@} mlpstats_t;
@end group
@end example

The @type{mlpstats_t} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item mlpmonarray
Contains an array of 32-bit unsigned integers containing the statistics.  The
indices of the individual elements of the array are as follows:

@multitable {00}{@code{MLP_frames_tx}}{xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx}
@item 0 @tab @pval{MLP_frames_tx} @tab -
@item 1 @tab @pval{MLP_frames_rx} @tab -
@item 2 @tab @pval{MLP_reset_tx} @tab -
@item 3 @tab @pval{MLP_reset_rx} @tab -
@item 4 @tab @pval{MLP_confs_tx} @tab -
@item 5 @tab @pval{MLP_confs_rx} @tab -
@item 6 @tab @pval{MLP_slps} @tab -
@item 7 @tab @pval{MLP_num_slps} @tab -
@item 8 @tab @pval{MLP_mt1_exp} @tab -
@item 9 @tab @pval{MLP_mt2_exp} @tab -
@item 10 @tab @pval{MLP_mt3_exp} @tab -
@item 11 @tab @pval{MLP_mn1_exp} @tab -
@end multitable
@end table

@node LI_GSTATS - Global Statistics Data Structures
@subsection LI_GSTATS - Global Statistics Data Structures

@node lapb_gstioc Structure
@subsubsection lapb_gstioc Structure

The @type{lapb_gstioc} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
struct lapb_gstioc @{
    uint8_t lli_type;
    uint8_t lli_spare[3];
    uint32_t lapbgstats[6];
@};
@end group
@end example

The @type{lapb_gstioc} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item lli_type
Always @pval{LLI_GSTATS}.
@item lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by issuer and ignored by responder.
@item lapbgstats
Contains an array of 32-bit unsigned integers containing the statistics.  The
indices of the individual elements of the array are as follows:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .25 .70
@item 0 @tab @pval{frames_tx} @tab -
@item 1 @tab @pval{frames_rx} @tab -
@item 2 @tab @pval{sabm_tx} @tab -
@item 3 @tab @pval{sabm_rx} @tab -
@item 4 @tab @pval{bytes_tx} @tab -
@item 5 @tab @pval{bytes_rx} @tab -
@end multitable
@end table

@node llc2_gstioc Structure
@subsubsection llc2_gstioc Structure

The @type{llc2_gstioc} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
struct llc2_gstioc @{
    uint8_t lli_type;
    uint8_t lli_spare[3];
    uint32_t llc2gstats[6];
@};
@end group
@end example

The @type{llc2_gstioc} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item lli_type
Always @pval{LLI_GSTATS}.
@item lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by issuer and ignored by responder.
@item llc2gstats
Contains an array of 32-bit unsigned integers containing the statistics.  The
indices of the individual elements of the array are as follows:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .25 .70
@item 0 @tab @pval{frames_tx} @tab -
@item 1 @tab @pval{frames_rx} @tab -
@item 2 @tab @pval{sabme_tx} @tab -
@item 3 @tab @pval{sabme_rx} @tab -
@item 4 @tab @pval{bytes_tx} @tab -
@item 5 @tab @pval{bytes_rx} @tab -
@end multitable
@end table

@node mlp_gstioc Structure
@subsubsection mlp_gstioc Structure

The @type{mlp_gstioc} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
struct mlp_gstioc @{
    uint8_t lli_type;
    uint8_t lli_spare[3];
    uint32_t mlpgstats[10];
@};
@end group
@end example

The @type{mlp_gstioc} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item lli_type
Always @pval{LLI_GSTATS}.
@item lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by issuer and ignored by responder.
@item mlpgstats
Contains an array of 32-bit unsigned integers containing the statistics.  The
indices of the individual elements of the array are as follows:

@multitable {00}{@code{MLP_frames_tx}}{xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx}
@item 0 @tab @pval{MLP_frames_tx} @tab -
@item 1 @tab @pval{MLP_frames_rx} @tab -
@item 2 @tab @pval{MLP_reset_tx} @tab -
@item 3 @tab @pval{MLP_reset_rx} @tab -
@item 4 @tab @pval{MLP_confs_tx} @tab -
@item 5 @tab @pval{MLP_confs_rx} @tab -
@item 6 @tab @pval{MLP_slps} @tab -
@item 7 @tab @pval{MLP_num_slps} @tab -
@item 8 @tab @pval{MLP_bytes_tx} @tab -
@item 9 @tab @pval{MLP_bytes_rx} @tab -
@end multitable
@end table

@node LI_LAPBTUNE - LAPB Tuning Data Structures
@subsection LI_LAPBTUNE - LAPB Tuning Data Structures

@node lapb_tnioc Structure
@subsubsection lapb_tnioc Structure

The @type{lapb_tnioc} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
struct lapb_tnioc @{
    uint8_t lli_type;
    uint8_t lli_spare[3];
    uint32_t lli_snid;
    lapbtune_t lapb_tune;
@};
@end group
@end example

The @type{lapb_tnioc} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item lli_type
Always @pval{LLI_LAPBTUNE}.
@item lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by issuer and ignored by responder.
@item lli_snid
Specifies the subnetwork identifier (link identifier) for the operation.
@item lapb_tune
Contains the @type{lapbtune_t} tuning structure containing tuning parameters
described in @ref{lapbtune_t Structure}.
@end table

@node lapbtune_t Structure
@subsubsection lapbtune_t Structure

The @type{labtune_t} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
typedef struct lapbtune @{
    uint16_t N2;
    uint16_t T1;
    uint16_t Tpf;
    uint16_t Trej;
    uint16_t Tbusy;
    uint16_t Tidle;
    uint16_t ack_delay;
    uint16_t notack_max;
    uint16_t tx_window;
    uint16_t tx_probe;
    uint16_t max_I_len;
    uint16_t llconform;
    uint16_t sabm_in_x32;
@} lapbtune_t;
@end group
@end example

The @type{lapbtune_t} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item N2
@item T1
@item Tpf
@item Trej
@item Tbusy
@item Tidle
@item ack_delay
@item notack_max
@item tx_window
@item tx_probe
@item max_I_len
@item llconform
@item sabm_in_x32
@end table

@node LI_LLC2TUNE - LLC2 Tuning Data Structures
@subsection LI_LLC2TUNE - LLC2 Tuning Data Structures

@node llc2_tnioc Structure
@subsubsection llc2_tnioc Structure

The @type{llc2_tnioc} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
struct llc2_tnioc @{
    uint8_t lli_type;
    uint8_t lli_spare[3];
    uint32_t lli_snid;
    llc2tune_t llc2_tune;
@};
@end group
@end example

The @type{llc2_tnioc} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item lli_type
Always @pval{LLI_LLC2TUNE}.
@item lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by issuer and ignored by responder.
@item lli_snid
Specifies the subnetwork identifier (link identifier) for the operation.
@item llc2_tune
Contains the @type{llc2tune_t} tuning structure containing tuning parameters
described in @ref{llc2tune_t Structure}.
@end table

@node llc2tune_t Structure
@subsubsection llc2tune_t Structure

The @type{llc2tune_t} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
typedef struct llc2tune @{
    uint16_t N2;
    uint16_t T1;
    uint16_t Tpf;
    uint16_t Trej;
    uint16_t Tbusy;
    uint16_t Tidle;
    uint16_t ack_delay;
    uint16_t notack_max;
    uint16_t tx_window;
    uint16_t tx_probe;
    uint16_t max_I_len;
    uint16_t xid_window;
    uint16_t xid_Ndup;
    uint16_t xid_Tdup;
@} llc2tune_t;
@end group
@end example

The @type{llc2tune_t} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item N2
@item T1
@item Tpf
@item Trej
@item Tbusy
@item Tidle
@item ack_delay
@item notack_max
@item tx_window
@item tx_probe
@item max_I_len
@item xid_window
@item xid_Ndup
@item xid_Tdup
@end table

@node LI_MLPTUNE - MLP Tuning Data Structures
@subsection LI_MLPTUNE - MLP Tuning Data Structures

@node mlp_tnioc Structure
@subsubsection mlp_tnioc Structure

The @type{mlp_tnioc} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
struct mlp_tnioc @{
    uint8_t lli_type;
    uint8_t lli_spare[3];
    uint32_t lli_snid;
    mlptune_t mlp_tune;
@};
@end group
@end example

The @type{mlp_tnioc} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item lli_type
Always @pval{LLI_MLPTUNE}.
@item lli_spare
Spare bytes for alignment: set to zero by issuer and ignored by responder.
@item lli_snid
Specifies the subnetwork identifier (link identifier) for the operation.
@item mlp_tune
Contains the @type{mlptune_t} tuning structure containing tuning parameters
described in @ref{mlptune_t Structure}.
@end table

@node mlptune_t Structure
@subsubsection mlptune_t Structure

The @type{mlptune_t} structure is formatted as follows:

@example
@group
typedef struct mlptune @{
    uint16_t mw;
    uint16_t mx;
    uint16_t mt1;
    uint16_t mt2;
    uint16_t mt3;
    uint16_t mn1;
@} mlptune_t;
@end group
@end example

The @type{mlptune_t} structure contains the following members:

@table @parm
@item mw
The size of the MLP window.
@item mx
The size of the MLP guard region.
@item mt1
The time interval to wait for MN(S) == MV(R) in deciseconds.
@item mt2
The time interval to wait for unblock in deciseconds.
@item mt3
The time interval to wait for reset confirmation.
@item mn1
The number of SLP transmission retries.
@end table

@node Input-Output Control Commands
@section Input-Output Control Commands

@menu
* SLP Input-Output Control Commands::
* MLP Input-Output Control Commands::
@end menu

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @pioc{L_SETSNID} @tab Set subnetwork identifier.
@item @pioc{L_GETSNID} @tab Get subnetwork identifier.
@item @pioc{L_SETTUNE} @tab Set common tuning parameters.
@item @pioc{L_GETTUNE} @tab Get common tuning parameters.
@item @pioc{L_GETSTATS} @tab Get subnetwork statistics.
@item @pioc{L_ZEROSTATS} @tab Zero subnetwork statistics.
@item @pioc{L_TRACEON} @tab Turn message tracing on.
@item @pioc{L_TRACEOFF} @tab Turn message tracing off.
@item @pioc{L_GETGSTATS} @tab Get global statistics.
@item @pioc{L_ZEROGSTATS} @tab Zero global statistics.
@item @pioc{L_LINKDISABLE} @tab Disable link (subnetwork identifier).
@item @pioc{L_LINKENABLE} @tab Enable link (subnetwork identifier).
@item @pioc{L_PUTX32MAP} @tab Put X.32 table mapping.
@item @pioc{L_GETX32MAP} @tab Get X.32 table mapping.
@end multitable

@multitable @columnfractions .2 .8
@item @pioc{M_SETSNID} @tab Set subnetwork identifier.
@item @pioc{M_GETSNID} @tab Get subnetwork identifier.
@item @pioc{M_SETTUNE} @tab Set common tuning parameters.
@item @pioc{M_GETTUNE} @tab Get common tuning parameters.
@item @pioc{M_GETSTATS} @tab Get subnetwork statistics.
@item @pioc{M_ZEROSTATS} @tab Zero subnetwork statistics.
@item @pioc{M_TRACEON} @tab Turn message tracing on.
@item @pioc{M_TRACEOFF} @tab Turn message tracing off.
@item @pioc{M_GETGSTATS} @tab Get global statistics.
@item @pioc{M_ZEROGSTATS} @tab Zero global statistics.
@end multitable

@node SLP Input-Output Control Commands
@subsection SLP Input-Output Control Commands

@menu
* L_SETSNID::		Set subnetwork identifier.
* L_GETSNID::		Get subnetwork identifier.
* L_SETTUNE::		Set common tuning parameters.
* L_GETTUNE::		Get common tuning parameters.
* L_GETSTATS::		Get subnetwork statistics.
* L_ZEROSTATS::		Zero subnetwork statistics.
* L_TRACEON::		Turn message tracing on.
* L_TRACEOFF::		Turn message tracing off.
* L_GETGSTATS::		Get global statistics.
* L_ZEROGSTATS::	Zero global statistics.
* L_LINKDISABLE::	Disable link (subnetwork identifier).
* L_LINKENABLE::	Enable link (subnetwork identifier).
* L_PUTX32MAP::		Put X.32 table mapping.
* L_GETX32MAP::		Get X.32 table mapping.
@end menu

@node L_SETSNID
@subsubsection L_SETSNID

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{ll_snioc}
structure described in @ref{ll_snioc Structure}.

@node L_GETSNID
@subsubsection L_GETSNID

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{ll_snioc}
structure described in @ref{ll_snioc Structure}.

@node L_SETTUNE
@subsubsection L_SETTUNE

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{lapb_tnioc},
@type{llc2_tnioc} or @type{mlp_tnioc} structure.@footnote{These structures are
described in @ref{lapb_tnioc Structure}, @ref{llc2_tnioc Structure}, and
@ref{mlp_tnioc Structure}.}

@node L_GETTUNE
@subsubsection L_GETTUNE

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{lapb_tnioc},
@type{llc2_tnioc} or @type{mlp_tnioc} structure.@footnote{These structures are
described in @ref{lapb_tnioc Structure}, @ref{llc2_tnioc Structure}, and
@ref{mlp_tnioc Structure}.}

@node L_GETSTATS
@subsubsection L_GETSTATS

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{lapb_stioc},
@type{llc2_stioc} or @type{mlp_stioc} structure.@footnote{These structures are
described in @ref{lapb_stioc Structure}, @ref{llc2_stioc Structure}, and
@ref{mlp_stioc Structure}.}

@node L_ZEROSTATS
@subsubsection L_ZEROSTATS

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{lapb_stioc},
@type{llc2_stioc} or @type{mlp_stioc} structure.@footnote{These structures are
described in @ref{lapb_stioc Structure}, @ref{llc2_stioc Structure}, and
@ref{mlp_stioc Structure}.}

@node L_TRACEON
@subsubsection L_TRACEON

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{ll_hdioc}
structure described in @ref{ll_hdioc Structure}.

@node L_TRACEOFF
@subsubsection L_TRACEOFF

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{ll_hdioc}
structure described in @ref{ll_hdioc Structure}.

@node L_GETGSTATS
@subsubsection L_GETGSTATS

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{lapb_gstioc},
@type{llc2_gstioc} or @type{mlp_gstioc} structure.@footnote{These structures are
described in @ref{lapb_gstioc Structure}, @ref{llc2_gstioc Structure}, and
@ref{mlp_gstioc Structure}.}

@node L_ZEROGSTATS
@subsubsection L_ZEROGSTATS

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{lapb_gstioc},
@type{llc2_gstioc} or @type{mlp_gstioc} structure.@footnote{These structures are
described in @ref{lapb_gstioc Structure}, @ref{llc2_gstioc Structure}, and
@ref{mlp_gstioc Structure}.}

@node L_LINKDISABLE
@subsubsection L_LINKDISABLE

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{ll_hdioc}
structure described in @ref{ll_hdioc Structure}.

@node L_LINKENABLE
@subsubsection L_LINKENABLE

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{ll_hdioc}
structure described in @ref{ll_hdioc Structure}.

@node L_PUTX32MAP
@subsubsection L_PUTX32MAP

@node L_GETX32MAP
@subsubsection L_GETX32MAP

@node MLP Input-Output Control Commands
@subsection MLP Input-Output Control Commands

@menu
* M_SETSNID::		Set subnetwork identifier.
* M_GETSNID::		Get subnetwork identifier.
* M_SETTUNE::		Set common tuning parameters.
* M_GETTUNE::		Get common tuning parameters.
* M_GETSTATS::		Get subnetwork statistics.
* M_ZEROSTATS::		Zero subnetwork statistics.
* M_TRACEON::		Turn message tracing on.
* M_TRACEOFF::		Turn message tracing off.
* M_GETGSTATS::		Get global statistics.
* M_ZEROGSTATS::	Zero global statistics.
@end menu

@node M_SETSNID
@subsubsection M_SETSNID

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{ll_snioc}
structure described in @ref{ll_snioc Structure}.

@node M_GETSNID
@subsubsection M_GETSNID

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{ll_snioc}
structure described in @ref{ll_snioc Structure}.

@node M_SETTUNE
@subsubsection M_SETTUNE

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{lapb_tnioc},
@type{llc2_tnioc} or @type{mlp_tnioc} structure.@footnote{These structures are
described in @ref{lapb_tnioc Structure}, @ref{llc2_tnioc Structure}, and
@ref{mlp_tnioc Structure}.}

@node M_GETTUNE
@subsubsection M_GETTUNE

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{lapb_tnioc},
@type{llc2_tnioc} or @type{mlp_tnioc} structure.@footnote{These structures are
described in @ref{lapb_tnioc Structure}, @ref{llc2_tnioc Structure}, and
@ref{mlp_tnioc Structure}.}

@node M_GETSTATS
@subsubsection M_GETSTATS

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{lapb_stioc},
@type{llc2_stioc} or @type{mlp_stioc} structure.@footnote{These structures are
described in @ref{lapb_stioc Structure}, @ref{llc2_stioc Structure}, and
@ref{mlp_stioc Structure}.}

@node M_ZEROSTATS
@subsubsection M_ZEROSTATS

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{lapb_stioc},
@type{llc2_stioc} or @type{mlp_stioc} structure.@footnote{These structures are
described in @ref{lapb_stioc Structure}, @ref{llc2_stioc Structure}, and
@ref{mlp_stioc Structure}.}

@node M_TRACEON
@subsubsection M_TRACEON

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{ll_hdioc}
structure described in @ref{ll_hdioc Structure}.

@node M_TRACEOFF
@subsubsection M_TRACEOFF

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{ll_hdioc}
structure described in @ref{ll_hdioc Structure}.

@node M_GETGSTATS
@subsubsection M_GETGSTATS

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{lapb_gstioc},
@type{llc2_gstioc} or @type{mlp_gstioc} structure.@footnote{These structures are
described in @ref{lapb_gstioc Structure}, @ref{llc2_gstioc Structure}, and
@ref{mlp_gstioc Structure}.}

@node M_ZEROGSTATS
@subsubsection M_ZEROGSTATS

The argument of this input-output control is a pointer to the @type{lapb_gstioc},
@type{llc2_gstioc} or @type{mlp_gstioc} structure.@footnote{These structures are
described in @ref{lapb_gstioc Structure}, @ref{llc2_gstioc Structure}, and
@ref{mlp_gstioc Structure}.}

@node LLI Header Files
@chapter LLI Header Files

@menu
* ll_control.h Header File::
* ll_proto.h Header File::
* mlp_control.h Header File::
* mlp_proto.h Header File::
@end menu

@node ll_control.h Header File
@section ll_control.h Header File

@node ll_proto.h Header File
@section ll_proto.h Header File

@node mlp_control.h Header File
@section mlp_control.h Header File

@node mlp_proto.h Header File
@section mlp_proto.h Header File

@c @node LLI Library
@c @chapter LLI Library

@node LLI Drivers and Modules
@chapter LLI Drivers and Modules

@menu
* hdlc Driver::
* lapb Driver::
* llc1 Driver::
* llc2 Driver::
* s_llic Module::
* s_lli Module::
@end menu

@node hdlc Driver
@section hdlc Driver

The @file{hdlc} driver is a pseudo-device @cite{STREAMS} driver that provides
raw HDLC framing as specified in @cite{ISO/IEC 3309} described in reference
@ref{ISO3309,,ISO3309}.

The @file{hdlc} driver provides a @cite{Data Link Provider Interface} as its
upper multiplex service interface, as described in @ref{DLPI,,DLPI}.

The @file{hdlc} driver is documented in the @manref{hdlc(4)} manual page.

@node lapb Driver
@section lapb Driver

The @file{lapb} driver is a pseudo-device @cite{STREAMS} driver that provides
the X.25 compatible LAPB procedures as specified in @cite{ISO/IEC 7776}
described in reference @ref{ISO7776,,ISO7776}.
This driver, in combination with the @file{x25} multiplexing driver, provides
X.25 over LAPB as described in reference @ref{ISO8208,,ISO8208}.

The @file{lapb} driver provides a @cite{Data Link Provider Interface} as its
upper multiplex service interface, as described in @ref{DLPI,,DLPI}.

The @file{lapb} driver is documented in the @manref{lapb(4)} manual page.

@node llc1 Driver
@section llc1 Driver

The @file{llc1} driver is a pseudo-device @cite{STREAMS} driver that provides
the IEEE 802.2 LLC Type 1 (LLC1) procedures as specified in @cite{ISO/IEC
8802-2} described in reference @ref{ISO8802-2,,ISO8802-2}.
This driver, in combination with the @file{x25} multiplexing driver, provides
X.25 over LLC1 as described in refeference @ref{ISO8881,,ISO8881}.

The @file{llc1} driver provides a @cite{Data Link Provider Interface} as its
upper multiplex service interface, as described in @ref{DLPI,,DLPI}.

The @file{llc1} driver is documented in the @manref{llc1(4)} manual page.

@node llc2 Driver
@section llc2 Driver

The @file{llc1} driver is a pseudo-device @cite{STREAMS} driver that provides
the IEEE 802.2 LLC Type 2 (LLC2) procedures as specified in @cite{ISO/IEC
8802-2} described in reference @ref{ISO8802-2,,ISO8802-2}.
This driver, in combination with the @file{x25} multiplexing driver, provides
X.25 over LLC2 as described in refeference @ref{ISO8881,,ISO8881}.

The @file{llc2} driver provides a @cite{Data Link Provider Interface} as its
upper multiplex service interface, as described in @ref{DLPI,,DLPI}.

The @file{llc2} driver is documented in the @manref{llc2(4)} manual page.

@node s_llic Module
@section s_llic Module

The @file{s_llic} module is a pushable @cite{STREAMS} module that converts
between the LLI input-output controls described in this manual and the DLPI
input-output controls used by the @url{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7 Project}.
This particular module does not convert primitives, as both the LLI and the DLPI
use the primitives of the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface, Revision
2.0.0} described in reference @ref{DLPI,,DLPI}.

The @file{s_llic} module provides a @cite{Data Link Provider Interface} as its
upper and lower service interface, as described in @ref{DLPI,,DLPI}.

The @file{s_llic} module is documented in the @manref{s_llic(4)} manual page.

@node s_lli Module
@section s_lli Module

The @file{s_lli} module is a pushable @cite{STREAMS} module that converts
between the LLI input-output controls described in this manual and the DLPI
input-output controls used by the @url{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7 Project}.
This particular module converts between the LLI primitives described in this
manual and the primitives of the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface}, described
in reference @ref{DLPI,,DLPI}.

The @file{s_llic} module provides a @cite{Data Link Provider Interface} as its
upper and lower service interface, as described in @ref{DLPI,,DLPI}.

The @file{s_lli} module is documented in the @manref{s_lli(4)} manual page.

@node LLI Utilities
@chapter LLI Utilities

@menu
* lltune Utility::
* mlptune Utility::
* linkadd Utility::
* linkdel Utility::
* linklist Utility::
* linkreset Utility::
* linkstart Utility::
* linkstate Utility::
* linkstop Utility::
@end menu

@node lltune Utility
@section lltune Utility

The @command{lltune} utility is documented in the @manref{lltune(8)} manual
page.

@node mlptune Utility
@section mlptune Utility

The @command{mlptune} utility is documented in the @manref{mlptune(8)} manual
page.

@node linkadd Utility
@section linkadd Utility

The @command{linkadd} utility is documented in the @manref{linkadd(8)} manual
page.

@node linkdel Utility
@section linkdel Utility

The @command{linkdel} utility is documented in the @manref{linkdel(8)} manual
page.

@node linklist Utility
@section linklist Utility

The @command{linklist} utility is documented in the @manref{linklist(8)} manual
page.

@node linkreset Utility
@section linkreset Utility

The @command{linkreset} utility is documented in the @manref{linkreset(8)} manual
page.

@node linkstart Utility
@section linkstart Utility

The @command{linkstart} utility is documented in the @manref{linkstart(8)} manual
page.

@node linkstate Utility
@section linkstate Utility

The @command{linkstate} utility is documented in the @manref{linkstate(8)} manual
page.

@node linkstop Utility
@section linkstop Utility

The @command{linkstop} utility is documented in the @manref{linkstop(8)} manual
page.

@node LLI File Formats
@chapter LLI File Formats

@menu
* lapbtemplate File Format::
* llc2template File Format::
* mlptemplate File Format::
@end menu

@node lapbtemplate File Format
@section lapbtemplate File Format

The @file{lapbtemplate} file format is documented in the @manref{lapbtemplate(5)}
manual page.

@subheading Name
@file{lapbtemplate} --- Link Access Protocol (Balanced) File Format

@subheading Description
The @file{lapbtemplate} describes the file format for input to the
@manref{lltune(8)} command for LAPB class subnetworks.  The file format
consists of a number of parameter values, one per line, formatted as described
below.  Each parameter value is described using its line number in the file, a
parameter name, and a description of the format of the value.  Only the value
appears in the file, each value on a line by itself, one value per line.

Each of the LAPB configuration parameters correspons to the member and values
of the @type{lapb_tune} structure, that is carried in a @type{lapb_tnioc}
structure by the @pioc{L_LAPBTUNE} input-output control.

These protocol parameters, and the default values that exist when tuning has
not been applied to a newly created LAPB subnetwork, correspond directly to the
protocol parameters and defaults in @cite{ISO/IEC 7776}, @cite{ITU-T Rec. X.25}
and @cite{X.75}.

@subheading Format
The LAPB template consists of 16 to 18 lines containing the following
configuration information:

@enumerate

@item @pval{N2_VAL} is the maximum number of times that a protocol data unit
(PDU) is set following the expiry of the acknowlegement timer, the P-bit timer,
or the reject timer.  It also limits the number of times an RR with the P-bit
set is sent when remote busy is true and the busy timer expires.

@item @pval{T1_VAL} is the time during which the LAPB expects to receive an
acknowledgement to an outstanding I-PDU or an expected response to a sent
UI-PDU.  The value is in units of 0.1 seconds (deciseconds).

@item @pval{TPF_VAL} is the time during which the LAPB expectes to receive a
PDU with the F-bit set to 1 in response to a command with the P-bit set to 1.
The value should be less than the acknowledgement timer.  The value is in units
of 0.1 seconds (deciseconds).

@item @pval{TREJ_VAL} is the time interval during which the LAPB expects to
receive a reply to a sent REJ DPU.  The value is in units of 0.1 seconds
(deciseconds).

@item @pval{TBUSY_VAL} is the time interval during which the LAPB waits for an
indication of the clearance of a busy condition at the other LAPB.  The value
is in units of 0.1 seconds (deciseconds).

@item @pval{IDLE_VAL} is the time interval during which the LAPB expects to
receive a PDU from the other LAPB.  If it expires then the P/F cycle is
intiated which may result in link disconnection.  The value is in units of 0.1
seconds (decicseconds).

@item @pval{ACK_DELAY} is the maximum delay in 0.1 second units before
transmitting a delayed RR.  This must be considerably less that the
acknowledgement timer value, @pval{T1_VAL}.

@item @pval{NOTACK_MAX} is the maximuum number of unacknowledged receive I PDUs
before the RR acknowledging them all must be sent.

@item @pval{LOC_WIND} is the number of unacknowledged I PDUs that may be sent.

@item @pval{LOC_PROBE} is the position before the window is closed at which an
I PDU is sent with the P-bit set to solicit an acknowledgement from the
receiver.

@item @pval{MAX_I_LEN} is the maximum isze of a LAPB I-frame.  LAPB requires
all incoming I-frames above a certain size to be rejected by a FRMR.  This
parameter specifies the maximum size.  It is constructured as the sum of the
maximum X.25 data size, the X.25 protocol length and the LAPB protocol length.

@item @pval{IGN_UA_ERROR} define whether or not to ignore any UA frams
received, when the connection is in ERROR state.  The value is @samp{1} for
@var{true} and @samp{0} for @var{false}.  The defalt value is @var{false}.

@item @pval{FRMR_FRMR_ERROR} defines whether or not to re-transmit a frame
reject if a frame reject is received, when the connection is in @psta{ERROR}
state.  The value is @samp{1} for @var{true} and @samp{0} for @var{false}.  The
default value is @var{false}.

@item @pval{FRMR_INVRSP_ERROR} defines whether or not  to transmit a frame
reject if an invalid frame response is received, when the connection is in
@psta{ERROR} state.  The value is @samp{1} for @var{true} and @samp{0} for
@var{false}.  The default value is @var{false}.

@item @pval{SFRAME_PBIT} defines whether or not to send a frame reject if an
S-frame is received without the P-bit set.  The value is @samp{1} for
@var{true}a nd @samp{0} for @var{false}.  The default value is @var{false}.

@item @pval{NO_DM_ADM} defines whether or not to send a @psta{DM} on entry to
@psta{ADM} state after an N2 count expiry.  The value is @samp{1} for
@var{true} and @samp{0} for @var{false}.  The default value is @var{false}.

@end enumerate

The following two fields are optional extensions:

@enumerate 17

@item @pval{IGN_DM_ERROR} defines whether or not to ignore DM frames received,
when the connection is in @psta{ERROR} state.  The value is @samp{1} for
@var{true} and @samp{0} for @var{false}.  The default value is false.

@item @pval{SABM_IN_X32} defines the action to take when a SABM is received in
X.32 setup.  The value is @samp{1} for @var{true} and @samp{0} for @var{false}.
The default value is @var{false}.

@end enumerate

The last two fields (@samp{17} and @samp{18}) are enhancements.

@subheading Files
Files following this format are normally kept in the
@file{@value{_configdir}/@value{PACKAGE}/template/} directory.@footnote{Note
that this directory varies depending on whether the build was on a
@manref{dpkg(1)}-based or @manref{rpm(1)}-based system.}

@subheading See Also
@itemize @bullet
@item @manref{lltune(8)}
@item @manref{lapb(4)}
@item @manref{x25netd(8)}
@end itemize

@subheading Compatibility
The @file{lapbtemplate} file format is compatible with @cite{Spider X.25}, and
implementations based on @cite{Spider X.25}, such as @cite{AIXlink/X.25},
@cite{HP-UX}, @cite{IRIS SX.25}, @cite{Solstice X.25}, @cite{PT X.25},
@cite{SBE X.25}, with the following compatibility considerations:

@itemize ---

@item Most implementations only define the first 16 lines.  This implementation
defines 18 lines, where the first 16 lines are compatible with other
implementations and the last additional two lines are optional.

@item @cite{PT X.25} documents the @pval{SABM_IN_X32} LAPB template field but
not the @pval{IGN_DM_ERROR} LAPB template field.  @cite{Solstice X.25} and
@cite{IRIS SX.25} do not document either the @pval{IGN_DM_ERROR} nor
@pval{SABM_IN_X32} LAPB template fields.

@end itemize

For additional compatiblity infromation see, @manref{lapb(4)}, and
@manref{STREAMS(9)}.

@subheading Conformance
@cite{AIXlink/X.25}, @cite{HP-UX}, @cite{IRIS SX.25}, @cite{Solstice X.25},
@cite{PT X.25}, @cite{SBE X.25}, documentation.

@subheading History
The @file{lapbtemplate} file format first appeared in @cite{Spider X.25}.

@page
@node llc2template File Format
@section llc2template File Format

The @file{llc2template} file format is documented in the @manref{llc2template(5)}
manual page.

@subheading Name
@file{llc2template} --- Logical Link Control Type 2 File Format

@subheading Description
The @file{llc2template} describes the file format for input to the
@manref{lltune(8)} command for LLC2 class subnetworks.  The file format
consists of a number of parameter values, one per line, formatted as described
below.  Each parameter value is described using its line number in the file, a
parameter name, and a description of the format of the value.  Only the value
appears in the file, each value on a line by itself, one value per line.

Each of the LLC2 configuration parameters corresponds to the member and values
of the @type{llc2_tune} structure, that is carried in a @type{llc2_tnioc}
structure by the @pioc{L_LLC2TUNE} input-output control.

These protocol parameters, and the default values that exist when tuning has
not been applied to a newly created LLC2 subnetwork, correspond directly to the
protocol parameters and defaults in @cite{ISO/IEC 8802-2:1998}.

@subheading Format
The LLC2 template consists of 14 lines containing the following configuration
information.

@enumerate

@item @pval{N2_VAL}
is the maximum number of times that a Protocol Data Unit (PDU) is sent
following the expiry of the acknowledgement timer, the P-bit timer, or the
reject timer.  This parameter also limits the number of times an RR is sent
with the P-bit set when remote busy is true and the busy timer expires.

@item @pval{T1_VAL}
is the time interval during which the LLC2 expects to receive an
acknowledgement to an outstanding I-PDU or an expected response to a sent
UI-PDU.  The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.

@item @pval{TPF_VAL}
is the time during which the LLC2 expects to receive a PDU with the F-bit set
to 1 in response to a command with the P-bit set to 1.  The value should be
less than that specified for the akcnowledgement timer.  The value is in units
of 0.1 seconds.

@item @pval{TREJ_VAL}
is the time interval during which the LLC2 expects to receive a reply to a sent
REJ PDU.  The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.

@item @pval{TBUSY_VAL}
is the timer interval during which the LLC2 waits for an indication of the
clearance of busy condition at the other LLC2.  The value is in units of 0.1
seconds.

@item @pval{TIDLE_VAL}
is the time interval during which the LLC2 expects to receive a PDU from the
other LLC2.  The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.

@item @pval{ACK_DELAY}
is the RR delay time.  This is the time interval for which the LLC2 will
withhold acknowledgements of unacknowledged received I-PDUs.  The value is in
units of 0.1 seconds.

@item @pval{NOTACK_MAX}
is the maximum number of unacknowledged received I-frames.

@item @pval{TX_WINDOW}
is the transmit window (if no XID received).

@item @pval{TX_PROBE}
is the position before the window is closed at which an I-PDU is sent with the
P-bit set to solicit an acknowledgement from the receiver.

@item @pval{MAX_I_LEN}
is the maximum size of an LLC2 I-frame.  LLC2 requires all incoming I-frames
above a certain size to be rejected by a FRMR.  This parameter specifies the
maximum size of data that may bereceived starint from the LLC2 protocol header.

In an X.25 network, it is constructed as (maximum X.25 data length + X.25
protool header length + LLC2 protocol header length).  In an SNA network, it
is constructed as (maximum SNA data length + SNA request header length + SNA
transmission header length + LLC2 protocol header length).

@item @pval{XID_WINDOW}
is the XID window size (receive window), when the remote window size is unknown
or zero.

@item @pval{XID_NDUP}
is the duplicate MAC XID count (0 means no test).

@item @pval{XID_TDUP}
is the duplicate MAC XID time.  The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.

@end enumerate

@subheading Files
Files following this format are normally kept in the
@file{@value{_configdir}/@value{PACKAGE}/template/} directory.@footnote{Note
that this directory varies depending on whether the build was on a
@manref{dpkg(1)}-based or @manref{rpm(1)}-based system.}

@subheading See Also
@itemize @bullet
@item @manref{lltune(8)}
@item @manref{llc2(4)}
@item @manref{x25netd(8)}
@end itemize

@subheading Compatibility
The @file{llc2template} file format is compatible with @cite{Spider X.25},
and implementations based on @cite{Spider X.25}, such as
@cite{AIXlink/X.25},
@cite{HP-UX},
@cite{IRIS SX.25},
@cite{Solstice X.25},
@cite{PT X.25},
@cite{SBE X.25},
with the following compatibility considerations:
@itemize ---
@item @cite{PT X.25} does not support LLC2.  @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
supports LLC2 in support of XOL and porting applications from
@cite{AIXlink/X.25}, @cite{Solstice X.25}, @cite{HP-UX}, @cite{IRIS
SX.25}, @cite{VxWorks}, @cite{pSOS}, @cite{SpiderX}, and many other
implementations based on @cite{SpiderX.25} support LLC2.  Portable X.25 and XOL
applications will use @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} instead of @cite{PT X.25}.
@end itemize
For additional compatibiltiy information see, @manref{llc2(4)}, and
@manref{STREAMS(9)}.

@subheading Conformance
@cite{AIXlink/X.25}, @cite{HP-UX}, @cite{IRIS SX.25}, @cite{Solstice X.25},
@cite{PT X.25}, @cite{SBE X.25}, documentation.

@subheading History
The @file{llc2template} file format first appeared in @cite{Spider X.25}.

@page
@node mlptemplate File Format
@section mlptemplate File Format

The @file{mlptemplate} file format is documented in the @manref{mlptemplate(5)}
manual page.

@node LLI Compatibility and Porting
@appendix LLI Compatibility and Porting

@menu
* Compatibility with AIXlink/X.25::
* Compatibility with HP X.25/9000::
* Compatibility with IRIS SX.25::
* Compatibility with PT X.25::
* Compatibility with RadiSys WAN::
* Compatibility with SBE X.25::
* Compatibility with Solstice X.25::
@end menu

@node Compatibility with AIXlink/X.25
@section Compatibility with AIXlink/X.25

@node Compatibility with HP X.25/9000
@section Compatibility with HP X.25/9000

@node Compatibility with IRIS SX.25
@section Compatibility with IRIS SX.25

@node Compatibility with PT X.25
@section Compatibility with PT X.25

@node Compatibility with RadiSys WAN
@section Compatibility with RadiSys WAN

@node Compatibility with SBE X.25
@section Compatibility with SBE X.25

@node Compatibility with Solstice X.25
@section Compatibility with Solstice X.25

@node Glossary of LLI Terms and Acronyms
@unnumbered Glossary of LLI Terms and Acronyms

@multitable @columnfractions 0.15 0.85
@item @dfn{ANSI} @tab American National Standards Institute
@item @dfn{CCITT} @tab Old name for ITU-T
@item @dfn{CONS} @tab Connection-Oriented Network Service
@item @dfn{ENSDU} @tab Expedited Network Service Data Unit
@item @dfn{ETSI} @tab European Telecommunications Standards Institute
@item @dfn{IEEE} @tab Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
@item @dfn{ITU} @tab International Telecommunications Union
@item @dfn{ITU-T} @tab ITU Telecom Sector
@item @dfn{LCI} @tab Logical Channel Identifier
@item @dfn{LLC1} @tab Logical Link Control Type 1
@item @dfn{LLC2} @tab Logical Link Control Type 2
@item @dfn{LLC} @tab Logical Link Control
@item @dfn{MAC} @tab Media Access Control
@item @dfn{NLI} @tab Network Layer Interface
@item @dfn{NPDU} @tab Network Protocol Data Unit
@item @dfn{NSAP} @tab Network Service Access Point
@item @dfn{NSDU} @tab Network Service Data Unit
@item @dfn{NSP} @tab Network Service Provider
@item @dfn{NS} @tab Network Service
@item @dfn{NSU} @tab Network Service User
@item @dfn{PDU} @tab Protocol Data Unit
@item @dfn{PVC} @tab Permanent Virtual Circuit
@item @dfn{SAP} @tab Service Access Point
@item @dfn{SDU} @tab Service Data Unit
@item @dfn{VC} @tab Virtual Circuit
@item @dfn{X.121} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.121
@item @dfn{X.25} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.25
@item @dfn{X.29} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.29
@end multitable

@node References
@unnumbered References

@multitable @columnfractions 0.2 0.8

@item [AIXlink/X.25] @anchor{AIXlink/X.25} @tab @cite{AIXlink/X.25 Version 2.1
for AIX: Guide and Reference}, No: SC23-2520-07, Eighth Edition, September 2006,
(Bolder, CO), International Business Machine Corp., IBM.
@uref{http://publibn.bould.ibm.com/,IBM Documentation Library}.

@item [ARTIC WAN] @anchor{ARTIC WAN} @tab @cite{ARTIC STREAMS Support WAN Driver
Interface Reference}, Release 1.7, June 2004, (Hillsboro, OR), RadiSys
Corporation, RadiSys. [Doc No: 007-01232-0003], @uref{http://www.radisys.com/,
RadiSys Support Documentation}.

@item [CDI] @anchor{CDI} @tab @cite{OpenSS7 CAE Specification: Communications
Device Interface (CDI) Specification}, Revision 0.9.2, Draft 2, July 15, 2007,
(Edmonton, Canada), B. Bidulock, OpenSS7 Corporation.  Distributed with package
@file{strxns-0.9.2} and @file{openss7-0.9.2}.
@url{http://www.openss7.org/docs/cdi.pdf, OpenSS7 Documents}.

@item [DLPI] @anchor{DLPI} @tab @cite{Open Group CAE Specification: Data Link
Provider Interface (DLPI) Specification}, Revision 2.0.0, Draft 2, August 20,
1992, (Parsippany, New Jersey), UNIX International, Inc., UNIX International
Press.  @uref{http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/,The Open Group},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/docs/dlpi.pdf,The OpenSS7 Project}.

@item [IRIS SX.25] @anchor{IRIS SX.25} @tab @cite{IRIS SX.25 NLI Programmer's
Guide}, 1995, (Mountainview, CA), Silicon Graphics, Inc., SGI Technical
Publications. [No: 007-2268-002]. @uref{http://techpubs.sgi.com/,SGI Technical
Publications}.

@item [ISO3309] @anchor{ISO3309} @tab @b{ISO/IEC 3309:1988}, @cite{Information
Technology -- Data Communications -- High-Level Data Link Control procedures --
Frame Structure}, 1988, ISO/IEC, International Orgianization for
Standardization.  @uref{http://www.iso.org/,International Organization for
Standardization}.

@item [ISO8208] @anchor{ISO8208} @tab @b{ISO/IEC 8208:2000}, @cite{Information
Technology -- Data Communications -- X.25 Packet Layer Protocol for Data
Terminal Equipment}, Fourth Edition, November 1, 2000, ISO/IEC, International
Organization for Standardization.  @uref{http://www.iso.org/,International
Organization for Standardization}.

@item [ISO7776] @anchor{ISO7776} @tab @b{ISO/IEC 7776:1995}, @cite{Information
technology -- Telecommunications information exchange between systems --
High-level data link control procedures -- Description of the X.25
LAPB-compatible DTE data link procedures}, Second Edition, July 1, 1995,
International Organization for Standardization.
@uref{http://www.iso.org/,International Organization for Standardization}.

@item [ISO8802-2] @anchor{ISO8802-2} @tab @b{ANSI/IEEE Standard 802.2-1998
[ISO/IEC 8802-2:1998]}, @cite{IEEE Standard for Information Technology --
Telecommunications and Information Exchange Between Systems -- Local and
Metropolitan Area Networks -- Specific Requirements -- Part 2: Logical Link
Control}, May 7, 1998, (New York), ANSI/IEEE, IEEE Computer Society. [ISBN
1-55937-959-6]. @uref{http://www.ieee.org/,Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers}.

@item [ISO8881] @anchor{ISO8881} @tab @b{ISO/IEC 8881:1989}, @cite{Information
Processing Systems -- Data Communications -- User of the X.25 Packet Level
Protocol in Local Area Networks}, 1989, ISO/IEC, International Organization for
Standardization. @uref{http://www.iso.org/,International Organization for
Standardization}.

@item [NLI] @anchor{NLI} @tab @cite{OpenSS7 CAE Specification: Network Layer
Interface (NLI) Specification}, Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1, June 2008, (Edmonton,
AB), B. Bidulock, OpenSS7 Corporation.  Distributed with package
@file{strx25-0.9.2} and @file{openss7-0.9.2}.
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/docs/nli.pdf,The OpenSS7 Project}.

@item [NPI] @anchor{NPI} @tab @cite{Open Group CAE Specification: Network
Provider Interface (NPI) Specification}, Revision 2.0.0, Draft 2, August 17,
1992, (Parisppany, New Jersey), UNIX International, Inc., UNIX International
Press.  @uref{http://www.openss7.org/docs/npi.pdf,The OpenSS7 Project}.

@item [Solstice X.25] @anchor{Solstice X.25} @tab @cite{Solstice X.25 9.2
Administration Guide}, October 1999, (Palo Alto, CA), Sun Microsystems, Inc.,
Sun. [Part No: 806-1234-10], @uref{http://docs-pdf.sun.com/, Solaris
Documentation}.

@item [TPI] @anchor{TPI} @tab @cite{Open Group CAE Specification: Transport
Provider Interface (TPI) Specification}, Revision 2.0.0, Draft 2, 1999,
(Berkshire, UK), Open Group, Open Group Publication.
@uref{http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/,The Open Group},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/docs/tpi.pdf,The OpenSS7 Project}.

@item [V.25 bis] @anchor{V.25 bis} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation V.25 bis (10/96)},
@cite{Synchronous and asyncrhonous automatic dialing procedrues on switched
networks}, October 1996, (Geneva), ITU, ITU-T Telecommunication Standardization
Sector of ITU, (Previously ``CCITT Recommendation''),
@url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-V.25bis/en/ T-REC-V.25bis}.

@item [X.21] @anchor{X.21} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation X.21 (09/92)},
@cite{Interface between Data Terminal Equipment (DTE) and Data
Circuit-terminating Equiment (DCE) for synchronous operation on Public Data
Networks}, September 1992, (Geneva), ITU, ITU-T Telecommunication
Standardization Sector of ITU.  (Previously ``CCITT Recommendation''),
@url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.21/en/, T-REC-X.21}.

@item [X.21 bis] @anchor{X.21 bis} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation X.21 bis (03/88)},
@cite{Use on Public Data Networks of Data Terminal Equipment (DTE) which is
designed for interfacing to synchronous V-series modems}, March 1988, (Geneva),
ITU, ITU-T Telecommunication Standardization Sector of ITU. (Previously ``CCITT
Recommendation''), @url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.21bis/en/,
T-REC-X.21bis}.

@item [X.25] @anchor{X.25} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation X.25}.
@url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.25/en/, T-REC-X.25}.

@item [X.29] @anchor{X.29} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation X.29}.
@url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.29/en/, T-REC-X.29}.

@item [XX25] @anchor{XX25} @tab @cite{X/Open CAE Specification: X.25 Programming
Interface using XTI (XX25)}, No. c411, November 1995, (Berkshire, UK), X/Open,
Open Group Publication. [ISBN: 1-85912-136-5].
@uref{http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/,The Open Group}.

@end multitable

@ifnotplaintext
@c skip indexes for plain text (regex search works better)
@c @iftex
@c @node Indices
@c @unnumbered Indices
@c @end iftex

@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for html and info
@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp
@c @end ifnottex

@c @iftex
@c @menu
@c * Concept Index::
@c * Protocol State Index::
@c * Primitive Index::
@c * Primitive Structure and Type Index::
@c * Primitive Structure Field Index::
@c * Primitive Values Index::
@c * Primitive Error Values Index::
@c * Input-Output Control Index::
@c * Manual Page Index::
@c @end menu
@c 
@c @node Concept Index
@c @section Concept Index
@c @printindex cp
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Protocol State Index
@c @section Protocol State Index
@c @printindex st
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Index
@c @section Primitive Index
@c @printindex pr
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Structure and Type Index
@c @section Primitive Structure and Type Index
@c @printindex tp
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Structure Field Index
@c @section Primitive Structure Field Index
@c @printindex vr
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Values Index
@c @section Primitive Values Index
@c @printindex pv
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Error Values Index
@c @section Primitive Error Values Index
@c @printindex pe
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Input-Output Control Index
@c @section Input-Output Control Index
@c @printindex ct
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Manual Page Index
@c @section Manual Page Index
@c @printindex mp
@c @end iftex
@end ifnotplaintext

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye
