'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=100
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ua_as_lm.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-29 01:52:16 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 01:52:16 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ua_as_lm.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-29 01:52:16  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/03/14 00:54:29  brian
.\" - manpages for check maintenance target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/02/03 03:05:13  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH UA_AS_LM 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ UA AS Local Management (UA-LM)"
.SH NAME
.B ua_as_lm
\- SIGTRAN User Adaptation (UA) Application Server (AS) Local Management (LM)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/tiuser.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ua_as_lm.h>
.HP
\fBint\fP \fIfd\fP \fB= open(\fIua-as-device\fB, \fRO_RDWR\fB);
.HP
\fBint\fP \fIret\fP \fB= ioctl(\fIfd\fB, \fIcmd\fB, \fI... \fB/* \fIarg\fB */);
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This manual page describes the STREAMS interface which is used to manage and configure SIGTRAN AS
modules and drivers conforming to the UA-AS Local Management (LM) specification.
.PP
UA-AS-LM is the common interface to
.I OpenSS7
modules and drivers configured by a set of SIGTRAN configuration utilities,
.RB ( m2uaasconf (8),
.BR m3uaasconf (8),
.BR suaasconf (8),
.BR tuaasconf (8),
.BR isuaasconf (8),
.BR iuaasconf (8),
.BR duaasconf (8),
.BR v5uaasconf (8),
.BR g303uaasconf (8)),
using
.BR streamio (2)
.IR I_PUSH (7)
and
.BR I_LINK (7)
input-output controls.  This interface is provided also for the development of special purpose
management entities (e.g. SNMP, TMN) for amangement of the SIGTRAN stack.  All SIGTRAN AS drivers,
modules and multiplexing drivers in the
.I OpenSS7
SIGTRAN
stack provide for this management interface.
.PP
The UA-AS-LM
consists of two subcomponents:
.TP
.I LAYER MANAGEMENT INTERFACE
The layer management interface provides a local management service interface that utilitizes
.BR M_PROTO (9)
and
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message that can be exchanged across the service interface using
.BR putmsg (2)
and
.BR getmsg (2)
system calls on the Stream head once a control Stream is opened on the AS driver (or once an AS
module is pushed).  The layer management interface controls local and layer management (SIGTRAN
configuration functions) which are normally used by a configuration utility on the driver interface
or control Stream of a multiplexing driver after pushing a module on the Stream head or linking a
Stream under the multiplexing driver.  The layer management interface is described in detail int he
section
.RI \(lq "LAYER MANAGEMENT INTERFACE" ,\(rq
below.
.TP
.I INPUT-OUTPUT CONTROL INTERFACE
The UA-AS-LM
also provides an input-output control interface which utilitizes
.BR ioctl (2)
transparent calls, pass-through calls, or
.IR I_STR (7)
input-output calls using
.BR streamio (7)
from a Stream head or a multiplexing driver control Stream.  The input-output control interface
provides for the control of layer-specific and device specific aspects which are outside the scope
of the SIGTRAN protocol proper, such as interface configuration and is normally used by a SIGTRAN
configuration utility or upstream modules during stack operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH "OBJECT MODEL"
.PP
The
UA-AS-LM
provides for management of a numer of managed objects.  These objects are of a number of types as
follows:
.TP
.B Defaults
This managed object contains system-wide defaults.  Changing the values associated with this object
change the defaults used when new objects are created.  There is only one instance of the default
object that is created when the kernel module is loaded and destroyed when the kernel module is
unloaded.  Information in this object is not persistent between module loads.
.TP
.B User Part (UP)
This managed object represents the user of the provider-user interface being exported from server to
client using SIGTRAN.  For example, for M2UA, this is a Signalling Link; for M3UA, an MTP-User.  An
instance of this object is created by opening a UA-AS driver or pushing a UA-AS module.  The service
interface provided to an instance of this object is the approprate protocol-specific interface.
Management of this object, therefore, is in accordance with the specific protocol (see for example,
.BR lmi (7)).
UP objects are attached to AS objects and ASP objects using the local management interface for the
corresponding protocol-specific layer.  For example, M2UA uses the Signalling Link Interface (SLI),
.BR sli (7),
which includes a local management interface; M3UA, Message Trasfer Part Interface (MTPI),
.BR mtpi (7),
and
.BR SUA, Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.BR npi_sccp (7).
.IP ""
For AS multiplexing drivers, this is the object associated with a Stream opened on the upper
multiplexing driver; for AS modules, the Stream after the module is pushed.  In the STREAMS
implementation, it is the private data associated with a queue-pair on the upper multiplex, or
module.
.TP
.B Application Server (AS)
An AS object represents the client-server relationship between a UP object and an ASP and SG object.
Each AS instances is an instance of a bound or attached UP object.  AS objects are created when a UP
object is associated with an ASP (normally part of the bind or attach) and destroyed when a UP
object is disassociated with an ASP (or otherwise when the UP object is destroyed).  An AS object
has a state for every ASP-SGP relation for the ASP to which it is linked, as well as an overall state.
.TP
.B Application Server Process (ASP)
An ASP object represents a local server process (in the STREAMS case, a weightless process)
providing service to UP objects through AS objects.  ASP objects are created on demand, using
defaults from the Default object, and destroyed when unused.  Whenever it is requested that an AS be
associated with an ASP for which an ASP does not yet exist, an ASP object is created on demand.
Whenever the ASP object is no longer used it is destroyed.  The ASP object is \(lqused\(rq when it
has AS objects associated with it.
.TP
.B Signalling Gateway (SG)
The SG object is a management object that represents the remote SG.  SG objects are created on
demand, using defaults from the Default object, and destroyed when unused.  Whenever it is requested
that an SGP be associated with an SG for which an SG does not yet exist, an SG object is created on
demand.  Whenever the SG object is no longer used, it is destroyed.  An SG object is \(lqused\(rq
when it has SG objects associated with it.
.TP
.B Signalling Gateway Process (SGP)
The SGP object is a management object that represents the remote SGP.  SGP objects are created on
demand, using defaults from the Default object, and destroyed when unused.  Whenever it is requested
that an TP be associated with an SGP for which an SGP does not yet exist, an SGP object is created
on demand.  Whenever the SGP object is no longer used, it is destroyed.  An SGP object is
\(lqused\(rq when it has TP objects associated with it. 
.TP
.B Transport Provider (TP)
The TP object is a management object that represents the SCTP association.  TP objects are created
on demand, using defaults from the Default object, and information obtained by interrogating the
SCTP transport, and destroyed when unused.  Whenever an SCTP Stream is linked under an AS
multiplexing driver or has an AS module pushed over it, a TP object is created on demand.  Whenever
the SCTP Stream is unlinked  from the AS multiplexing driver or the AS module is popped, the object
is destroyed.  A TP object is \(lqused\(rq when it has an SCTP Stream associated with it.
.IP ""
For AS multiplexing drivers, this is the object associated with a Stream linked under the
multiplexing driver; for AS modules, the Stream upon which the module was pushed.  In the STREAMS
implementation, it is the private data associated with a queue-pair on the lower multiplex, or
module.
.PP
.BR "Figure 1" ,
below, illustrates the object model.
.PP
As can be seen from the illustration, User Streams, UP objects and AS objects have a one-to-one
relationship.  The User Stream can be viewed as the implementation of the UP-AS managed objects.
The UP managed object can be viewed as all of the SS7- or ISDN-specific attributes of the User
Stream, whereas the AS object can be viewed as all of the SIGTRAN aspects of the User Stream.
.PP
Also, SCTP Streams, TP objects and SGP objects also have a one-to-one relationship.  The SCTP Stream
can be viewed as the implementation of the SGP-TP managed objects.  The TP managed object can be
viewed as all of the SCTP/IP aspects of the SCTP Stream, whereas the SGP object can be viewed as all
of the SIGTRAN aspects of the SCTP Stream.
.PP
ASP and SG objects have a one-to-one relationship.  To communicate with two SGs (as in the SG as STP
scenario for M3UA and SUA) requires two User Streams for each AS: one for each SG.
.PP
.ce 39
\fC\s-1\
     UA-AS Multiplexing Driver    UA-AS Module\ 
  ________   ________   ________    ________  \ 
 |        | |        | |        |  |        | \ 
 |  User  | |  User  | | Master |  |  User  | \ 
 | Stream | | Stream | | Stream |  | Stream | \ 
 |________| |________| |________|  |________| \ 
  ___|__________|__________|_____   ___|____  \ 
 |  _|__        |         _|__  |  |  _|__  | \ 
 | |    |       |        |    | |  | |    | | \ 
 | | LM |       |        | LM | |  | | LM | | \ 
 | |____|      _|__      |____| |  | |____| | \ 
 | |    |     |    |            |  | |    | | \ 
 | | UP |     | UP |            |  | | DF | | \ 
 | |____|     |____|            |  | |____| | \ 
 | |    |     |    |            |  |  _|__  | \ 
 | | AS |     | AS |            |  | |    | | \ 
 | |____|     |____|            |  | | UP | | \ 
 |    |_________ |              |  | |____| | \ 
 |             _||_       ____  |  | |    | | \ 
 |            |    |     |    | |  | | AS | | \ 
 |            | SP |     | DF | |  | |____| | \ 
 |            |____|     |____| |  | |    | | \ 
 |            |    |            |  | | SP | | \ 
 |            | SG |            |  | |____| | \ 
 |            |____|            |  | |    | | \ 
 |     ________|| |________     |  | | SG | | \ 
 |  __|_       _|__       _|__  |  | |____| | \ 
 | |    |     |    |     |    | |  | |    | | \ 
 | | GP |     | GP |     | GP | |  | | GP | | \ 
 | |____|     |____|     |____| |  | |____| | \ 
 | |    |     |    |     |    | |  | |    | | \ 
 | | TP |     | TP |     | TP | |  | | TP | | \ 
 | |____|     |____|     |____| |  | |____| | \ 
 |___|__________|__________|____|  |___|____| \ 
  ___|____   ___|____   ___|____    ___|____  \ 
 |        | |        | |        |  |        | \ 
 |  SCTP  | |  SCTP  | |  SCTP  |  |  SCTP  | \ 
 | Stream | | Stream | | Stream |  | Stream | \ 
 |________| |________| |________|  |________| \ 
\s+1\fP
.PP
.ce
\fBFigure 1.\fR \- \fIAS Multiplexing Driver and Module Example\fR
.PP
The illustration in
.BR "Figure 1"
is simpified in that the AS object has one ASP state for each associated SGP and one overall AS
state, and the SGP object has on ASP state for each associated AS.  the AS-SGP relation is a
many-to-many relation bound by the ASP-SG relation.
.\"
.SS "OBJECT CONFIGURATION"
.PP
.\"
.SS "OBJECT OPTIONS"
.PP
.\"
.SS "OBJECT STATES"
.PP
.\"
.SS "OBJECT STATISTICS"
.PP
.\"
.SS "OBJECT MANAGEMENT"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "LAYER MANAGEMENT INTERFACE"
.PP
.\"
.SS "LOCAL MANAGEMENT PRIMITIVES"
.PP
.TP
.BR UA_OK_ACK ", " UA_ERROR_ACK
.\"
.SS "SCTP MANAGEMENT PRIMITIVES"
.PP
.PP
.B Restrictions:
These services can only be invoked by the control Stream for the addressed SCTP Stream.  For
temporary links and modules, the control Stream is the Stream that linked the SCTP Stream or upon
which the module was pushed; for permanent links, the control Stream is the current master control
Stream.
.TP
.BR UA_LINK_REQ ", " UA_LINK_ACK
Link an SCTP association to an ASP and acknowlege linkage of an SCTP association.  This service
associates TP-SGP objects with an ASP-SG object and may result in the creation of an ASP-SG object
and the assignment of an SGP identifier to the SGP object.
This is a primary configuration service and is used to \(lqadd\(rq an SGP to an SG (as viewed from
the ASP).
.TP
.BR UA_UNLINK_REQ ", " UA_OK_ACK
Unlink an SCTP association from an ASP and acknowledge receipt.  This service disassociates a
TP-SGP object from an ASP-SG object and may result in the destruction of the ASP-SG object (if it is
no longer used).
This is a primary configuration services and is used to \(lqremove\(rq an SGP from an SG (as viewed
from the ASP).
.TP
.BR UA_SCTP_REQ ", " UA_SCTP_IND
Request management of an SCTP association and indicate management of an SCTP association.  This
service tunnels TPI primitives to and from the control Stream and the SCTP Stream identified with
the TP object identifier.  The encapsultated TPI primitives can be used to directly control the SCTP
Stream as described in
.BR tpi_sctp (7).
This is a primary configuration and monitoring service and is used to both configure and perform
ongoing monitoring and management of the SCTP associations.  SCTP associations under the control of
a control Stream can exchange TPI primitives with ease as though the Stream was neither pushed nor
linked.
.\"
.SS "ASP MANAGEMENT PRIMITIVES"
.PP
.PP
.B Restrictions:
These services can only be inovked by the control Stream for the ASP.  Each ASP can have at most
one control Stream.  The control Stream for the ASP is the Stream that is also the control Stream
for the SCTP Stream linked under the multiplexing driver or upon which the module was pushed.
.TP
.BR UA_ASPUP_REQ ", " UA_ASPUP_IND
.TP
.BR UA_ASPDN_REQ ", " UA_ASPDN_IND
.TP
.BR UA_INFO_REQ ", " UA_INFO_ACK
.TP
.BR UA_ERROR_IND ", " UA_NOTIFY_IND
.\"
.SS "AS MANAGEMENT PRIMITIVES"
.PP
.PP
.B Restrictions:
AS management primitives may be invoked by the control Stream for the ASP or by a user Stream
associated with the AS (by binding or attachment using the UP service interface).
.TP
.BR UA_REG_REQ ", " UA_OK_ACK ", " UA_REG_RSP
Request that a Link/Routing Key be registered with an SGP and provide acknowlegement and
registration status.
Registration of Link/Routing Keys is normally performed by the UA-AS driver or module in response to
user Streams issuing UP specific local management primitives (e.g. binding an address or attaching a
PPA).  When issued by a control Stream, this service does not affect the state of the associated AS,
but directly invokes the registration procedure.  When issued by a user Stream, the AS state tracks
the response (i.e, the IID or RC is assigned and the AS is moved to the ASP_INACTIVE state for the
SGP).
.IP ""
This service might change the form or validity of a user address later presented to a
UP specific bind or attachment primitive.
.TP
.BR UA_DEREG_REQ ", " UA_OK_ACK ", " UA_DEREG_RSP
Request that an AS be deregistered with an SGP and provide acknowledgement and registration status.
Deregistration of Link/Routing Keys is normally performed by the UA-AS driver or module in response
to user Stream issuing UP specific local management primitives (e.g. unbinding or detaching a
Stream).  When issued  by a control Stream, this service does not affect the state of the associated
AS, but directly invokes the registration procedure.  When issued by a user Stream, the AS state
tracks the response (i.e, the IID or RC is removed and the AS is moved to the ASP_DOWN state for the
SGP).
.TP
.BR UA_ASPAC_REQ ", " UA_ASPAC_IND
Requests activation of an AS for an SGP and indicates activation of an AS for an SGP .
Activation of AS is normally performed in response to user Streams issuing UP specific local
management primitives (e.g. connecting to an address, enabling a PPA).  When issued by a control
Stream or user Stream, this service but directly invokes the ASP Active procedures, however, the
associated AS, if any, will track the resulting state.
.IP ""
For a connected or enabled UP Stream, this service changes the target state of the AS for the SGP to
the active state.  Should the SGP deactivate the AS, the UA-AS driver will attempt to reactivate the
AS.
For a disconnect or diabled UP Stream, the procedure is still invoked, but the target state remains
at inactive,  quickly resulting in automatic invocation of the ASP Inactive procedures when the ASP
Active Ack message arrives.  This may, however, be useful for \(lqkicking\(rq the AS state at the
SGP in a manual resynchornization effort.
.TP
.BR UA_ASPIA_REQ ", " UA_ASPIA_IND
Requests deactivation of an AS and indicates deactivation of an AS.  Deactivation of an AS is
normally performed in response to user Streams issuing UP specific local management primtives (e.g.
disconnecting a Stream or disabling a PPA).  When issued by a control Stream or user Stream, this
service directly invokes the ASP Inactive procedures, however, the associated AS, if any, will track
the resulting state.
.IP ""
For a connected or enabled UP Stream, this service changes the target state of the AS for the SGP to
the inactive state.
Disconnected or disabled UP Streams are inactive by definition and are unaffected by this service.
.TP
.BR UA_ASINFO_REQ ", " UA_ASINFO_ACK
Requests information about the configuration and current state of an AS, either with respect to a
given SGP or the overall state of the AS.
.TP
.BR UA_ERROR_IND ", " UA_NOTIFY_IND




.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
