.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000  John A. Boyd Jr.  protologos, LLC
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Library General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the
.\" Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Cambridge,
.\" MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH FDETACH 3 "6 Oct 2003" "LiS 2.16.14" "Linux STREAMS"
.SH NAME
.B fdetach
\- detach any
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
file from a path name in the file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <stropts.h> "
.sp
.BI "int fdetach( const char *" path " ); "
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR fdetach "() "
detaches an open
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
file from a path name in the file system.
.BR fdetach "() "
will also
.BR close "(2) "
the
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
file if it represents the last
.BR open "(2) "
of that file.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
.BR fdetach "() "
returns 0.  Upon failure,
.B fattach
return -1, and
.BR errno "(3) "
is set to indicate the error causing the failure (see below).
.SH ERRORS
.BR fdetach "() "
may fail with at least the following error indications:
.TP
.B "[EINVAL]"
No
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
file is currently attached to the
.I path
given as an argument.
.B "[EPERM]"
The effective user associated with the calling process is not the
superuser and is not the owner of the path name.
.B "[EACCES]"
The effective user associated with the calling process is not the
superuser and does not have write permission for the path name.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
Applications wishing to use the version of the
.BR fdetach "() "
function described herein must link with the LiS library which
provides it.  The
Linux/GNU C library otherwise provides a stub supporting calls to
.BR fdetach "() "
which only generates an error indicating that it is not implemented.
.SH WARNINGS
The effect of calling
.BR fdetach "() "
on an attached
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
file occurs automatically when a
.I hangup
indication is received, unless passed file descriptors (in the form of
.B M_PASSFP
messages) are pending receipt via the
.B I_RECVFD
.I ioctl.
This will occur normally in two situations: when the file is a
pipe end and the other end is closed for the last time and released;
and when a driver sends an
.B M_HANGUP
message upward to the stream head.
In this state, the
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
file becomes unusable for normal message traffic, and
the automatic detachment ensures that it will be closed and its
resources released.
It should be noted, however, that this behavior is not common to
other
.B STREAMS
implementations and should be considered a non-standard extension.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fattach "(3), "
.BR fattach "(8), "
.BR fdetach "(8), "
.BR STREAMS "(4) "
.SH HISTORY
Unix System V Release 4 (SVR4)
.SH AUTHOR
John Boyd, protologos LLC.
