.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000  John A. Boyd Jr.  protologos, LLC
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Library General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the
.\" Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Cambridge,
.\" MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH ISASTREAM 3 "24 Apr 2000" "LiS 2.9" "Linux STREAMS"
.SH NAME
.B isastream
\- determine whether an open file is 
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <stropts.h> "
.sp
.BI "int isastream( int " filedes " ); "
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR isastream "() "
may be used to test whether or not an open file descriptor is for a
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
file (see
.BR STREAMS "(4)).  "
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
.BR isastream "() "
returns 1 if the indicated file is a
.IR STREAM ,
and 0 if it is not.
If
.I filedes
does not identify a valid open file,
.BR isastream "() "
should return -1 with
.I errno
set to
.BR EBADF .
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
.BR isastream "() " 
is convenient under Linux for determining or at least estimating
a file's behavior, since (with Linux
.B STREAMS
being available) there are both
.I STREAMS
and
.RI "non-" STREAMS
implementations for, e.g.,
.I fifos
(also known as
.I "named pipes"
- see
.BR fifo "(4)) "
and
.I pipes
(see
.BR pipe "(2)).  "
.sp
.BR isastream "() "
is also useful in conjunction with
.BR fattach "(3) "
and
.BR fdetach "(3) "
to determine whether or not a
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
file has been attached to a path name.
.sp
Applications wishing to use the version of the
.BR isastream "() "
function described herein must link with the LiS library which
provides it.  The
Linux/GNU C library otherwise provides a stub supporting calls to
.BR isastream "() "
which only generates an error indicating that it is not implemented.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
Unix System V Release 4 (SVR4)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pipe "(2), "
.BR fattach "(3), "
.BR fdetach "(3), "
.BR fattach "(8), "
.BR fdetach "(8), "
.BR fifo "(4), "
.BR STREAMS "(4) "
.SH AUTHOR
John Boyd, protologos LLC.
