@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: bugs.texi,v 0.9.2.7 2008/07/11 13:56:29 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008/07/11 13:56:29 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@table @code
@item 006.  2008-07-11T13:52:04+0000

lis_alloc_sem() was not setting the supplied count against the created
semaphore, but was alway setting the semaphore to 1 (unlocked).

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strcompat-0.9.2.7}.

@item 005.  2008-05-26T14:06:22+0000

lis_register_strdev() was failing whenever nminor was greater than zero or
not an even multiple of 256.  This was due to an error in the logic checking
for multiple majors.  (Thanks to Omer Tunali for reporting this bug.)

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strcompat-0.9.2.7}.

@item 004.  2007-07-21T17:26:01-0600

It was reported that, even with the fix below, validation test suites for XEN
kernels are failing.  XEN kernels are, therefore, not supported.  (Thanks to
Bryan Shupe at Flying J for reporting this bug.)

@emph{*noted*} in @command{strcompat-0.9a.7.rc1}.

@item 003.  2007-07-21T17:22:10-0600

It was reported that paddr_t is already defined in recent XEN kernels, causing
compile to fail for these kernels.  (Thanks to Bryan Shupe at Flying J for
reporting this bug.)

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strcompat-0.9a.7.rc1}.

A check was added to the configure script to check for the existence of
paddr_t.

@item 002.  2007-07-21T17:15:02-0600

It was discovered that recent kernel on RHAS4 are defining irq_handler_t but
have the old 3 argument function template for irq handlers.  The detection
logic assumed that if irq_hander_t existed, that the newer 2 argument function
template for irq handlers were in effect.  This caused builds to fail on these
RHAS4 kernels.

@emph{*fixed*} in @command{strcompat-0.9a.7.rc1}.

A check was added to the configure script to test whether the irq_handler_t
has the newer 2 argument template.

@item 001.  2007-01-12T11:40:15-0600

A bug in the @manpage{mi_copyout(9)} function was discovered by inspection.  The function should
complete the last stage of a non-TRANSPARENT input-output control operation by returning an
@manpage{M_IOCACK(9)} message, but did not.  This was fixed for release @file{0.9.2.5}.
@end table


