@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: configure.texi,v 0.9.2.2 2005/12/30 12:22:06 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2005/12/30 12:22:06 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@c This file is include from install.texi and contains the descriptions for
@c package-specific enable/disable and with/without options

In addition, the following @command{configure} options, specific to the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package are available:

@table @command
@item --disable-compat-os7
@opindex compat-os7
Disable @cite{OpenSS7} compatibility module.
When enabled, @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} will attempt to be as compatible as possible (witout replicating
any bugs) with the @cite{OpenSS7} documentation so that STREAMS drivers and modules written to
@cite{OpenSS7} specifications will compile with @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.  When disabled, STREAMS
drivers and modules written for @cite{OpenSS7} will require porting in more respects.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-compat-svr3
@opindex compat-svr3
Disable @cite{UNIX SVR 3.2} compatibility module.
When enabled, @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} will attempt to be as compatible as possible (witout replicating
any bugs) with the @cite{UNIX SVR 3.2} documentation so that STREAMS drivers and modules written to
@cite{UNIX SVR 3.2} specifications will compile with @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.  When disabled, STREAMS
drivers and modules written for @cite{UNIX SVR 3.2} will require porting in more respects.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-compat-svr4
@opindex compat-svr4
Disable @cite{UNIX SVR 4.2 MP} compatibility module.
When enabled, @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} will attempt to be as compatible as possible (witout replicating
any bugs) with the @cite{UNIX SVR 4.2 MP} documentation so that STREAMS drivers and modules written
to @cite{UNIX SVR 4.2 MP} specifications will compile with @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.  When disabled,
STREAMS drivers and modules written for @cite{UNIX SVR 4.2 MP} will require porting in more
respects.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-compat-mps
@opindex compat-mps
Disable @cite{Mentat Portable STREAMS} compatibility module.
When enabled, @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} will attempt to be as compatible as possible (witout replicating
any bugs) with the @cite{Mentat Portable STREAMS} documentation so that STREAMS drivers and modules
written to @cite{Mentat Portable STREAMS} specifications will compile with @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.
When disabled, STREAMS drivers and modules written for @cite{Mentat Portable STREAMS} will require
porting in more respects.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-compat-sol8
@opindex compat-sol8
Disable @cite{Solaris 8} compatibility module.
When enabled, @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} will attempt to be as compatible as possible (witout replicating
any bugs) with the @cite{Solaris 8} documentation so that STREAMS drivers and modules written to
@cite{Solaris 8} specifications will compile with @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.  When disabled, STREAMS
drivers and modules written for @cite{Solaris 8} will require porting in more respects.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-compat-uw7
@opindex compat-uw7
Disable @cite{UnixWare 7} compatibility module.
When enabled, @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} will attempt to be as compatible as possible (witout replicating
any bugs) with the @cite{UnixWare 7} documentation so that STREAMS drivers and modules written to
@cite{UnixWare 7} specifications will compile with @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.  When disabled, STREAMS
drivers and modules written for @cite{UnixWare 7} will require porting in more respects.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-compat-osf
@opindex compat-osf
Disable @cite{OSF/1.2} compatibility module.
When enabled, @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} will attempt to be as compatible as possible (witout replicating
any bugs) with the @cite{OSF/1.2} documentation so that STREAMS drivers and modules written to
@cite{OSF/1.2} specifications will compile with @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.  When disabled, STREAMS
drivers and modules written for @cite{OSF/1.2} will require porting in more respects.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-compat-aix
@opindex compat-aix
Disable @cite{AIX 5L Version 5.1} compatibility module.
When enabled, @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} will attempt to be as compatible as possible (witout replicating
any bugs) with the @cite{AIX 5L Version 5.1} documentation so that STREAMS drivers and modules
written to @cite{AIX 5L Version 5.1} specifications will compile with @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.  When
disabled, STREAMS drivers and modules written for @cite{AIX 5L Version 5.1} will require porting in
more respects.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-compat-hpux
@opindex compat-hpux
Disable @cite{HPUX STREAMS/UX} compatibility module.
When enabled, @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} will attempt to be as compatible as possible (witout replicating
any bugs) with the @cite{HPUX STREAMS/UX} documentation so that STREAMS drivers and modules written
to @cite{HPUX STREAMS/UX} specifications will compile with @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.  When disabled,
STREAMS drivers and modules written for @cite{HPUX STREAMS/UX} will require porting in more
respects.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-compat-irix
@opindex compat-irix
Disable @cite{IRIX} compatibility module.
When enabled, @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} will attempt to be as compatible as possible (witout replicating
any bugs) with the @cite{IRIX} documentation so that STREAMS drivers and modules written to
@cite{IRIX} specifications will compile with @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.  When disabled, STREAMS drivers
and modules written for @cite{IRIX} will require porting in more respects.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --enable-compat-lis
@itemx --disable-compat-lis
@opindex compat-lis
Disable @cite{LiS} compatibility module.
When enabled, @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} will attempt to be as compatible as possible (witout replicating
any bugs) with the @cite{LiS} documentation so that STREAMS drivers and modules written to
@cite{LiS} specifications will compile with @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.  When disabled, STREAMS drivers
and modules written for @cite{LiS} will require porting in more respects.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled} when compiled with @cite{Linux Fast STREAMS}, @samp{disabled}
when compiled with @cite{Linux STREAMS}.

@item --enable-compat-lfs
@itemx --disable-compat-lfs
@opindex compat-lfs
Disable @cite{Linux Fast STREAMS} compatibility module.
When enabled, @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} will attempt to be as compatible as possible (witout replicating
any bugs) with the @cite{Linux Fast STREAMS} documentation so that STREAMS drivers and modules
written to @cite{Linux Fast STREAMS} specifications will compile with @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.  When
disabled, STREAMS drivers and modules written for @cite{Linux Fast STREAMS} will require porting in
more respects.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled} when compiled with @cite{Linux STREAMS}, @samp{disabled}
when compiled with @cite{Linux Fast STREAMS}.

@item --disable-compat-mac
@opindex compat-mac
Disable @cite{MacOT} compatibility module.
When enabled, @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} will attempt to be as compatible as possible (witout replicating
any bugs) with the @cite{MacOT} documentation so that STREAMS drivers and modules written to
@cite{MacOT} specifications will compile with @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.  When disabled, STREAMS drivers
and modules written for @cite{MacOT} will require porting in more respects.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@end table

