@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: descrip.texi,v 0.9.2.10 2008-04-28 16:47:06 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 16:47:06 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides the ability for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} to
exhibit source level compatibility with a wide range of @cite{UNIX} @dfn{STREAMS} implementations.
Also, it provides @cite{LiS} source, and some 2.18.0 binary, compatibility for @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.  The objective of the package is to provide source level compatibility with a wide
range of @cite{UNIX} @dfn{STREAMS} implementations permitting drivers and modules to port easily to
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} from any other @dfn{STREAMS} implementation, making it possible to release
drivers and modules from a single @cite{UNIX} code base with minimal localisms for @cite{Linux}.

These compatibility modules provide source level compatibility with @cite{AIX}, @cite{HPUX},
@cite{OSF/1}, @cite{MacOT}, @cite{Mentat}, @cite{SUX}, @cite{Solaris}, @cite{SUPER/UX}, @cite{IRIX},
@cite{LiS}, @cite{UnixWare}, @cite{UXP/V} and @cite{SVR 4.2} STREAMS.  The package contains all the
necessary manual pages and other documentation in an autoconf tarball.

@ignore
The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package includes kernel modules, @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS}
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and development environment for the
development and execution of @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers ported from other operating system
environments to @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.

@end ignore
The package currently includes the following @dfn{STREAMS} kernel modules and drivers:@footnote{Note
that these are kernel modules and are @emph{not} @dfn{STREAMS} modules.}

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_os7compat.ko} @file{kernel}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_svr3compat.ko} @file{kernel}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_svr4compat.ko} @file{kernel}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_mpscompat.ko} @file{kernel}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_suncompat.ko} @file{kernel}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_uw7compat.ko} @file{kernel}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_osfcompat.ko} @file{kernel}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_aixcompat.ko} @file{kernel}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_hpuxcompat.ko} @file{kernel}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_irixcompat.ko} @file{kernel}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_liscompat.ko} @file{kernel}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_lfscompat.ko} @file{kernel}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_maccompat.ko} @file{kernel}
@end multitable

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides compatibility with the following @dfn{STREAMS}
implementations:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @bullet{} @cite{OpenSS7 variants}
@item @tab @bullet{} @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 3.2}
@item @tab @bullet{} @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4.2}
@item @tab @bullet{} @cite{MPS@registeredsymbol{} Mentat Portable Streams}
@item @tab @bullet{} @cite{Solaris@registeredsymbol{} 9/SunOS@registeredsymbol{} 5.9}
@item @tab @bullet{} @cite{UnixWare@registeredsymbol{} 7.1.3}
@item @tab @bullet{} @cite{Digital@registeredsymbol{} UNIX (OSF/1.2)}
@item @tab @bullet{} @cite{AIX@registeredsymbol{} 5L Version 5.1 Portable STREAMS Environment}
@item @tab @bullet{} @cite{HP-UX@registeredsymbol{} 11.0i v2 STREAMS/UX}
@item @tab @bullet{} @cite{IRIX@registeredsymbol{} 6.5.17}
@item @tab @bullet{} @cite{Linux STREAMS 2.18.0}
@item @tab @bullet{} @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS 0.9.2}
@item @tab @bullet{} @cite{Mac@registeredsymbol{} OS 9 Open Transport}
@end multitable

@ignore
@table @manref
@item os7compat(9)
@cite{OpenSS7 variants}

@item svr3compat(9)
@cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 3.2}

@item svr4compat(9)
@cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4.2}

@item mpscompat(9)
@cite{MPS@registeredsymbol{} Mentat Portable Streams}

@item suncompat(9)
@cite{Solaris@registeredsymbol{} 9/SunOS@registeredsymbol{} 5.9}

@item uw7compat(9)
@cite{UnixWare@registeredsymbol{} 7.1.3}

@item osfcompat(9)
@cite{Digital@registeredsymbol{} UNIX (OSF/1.2)}

@item aixcompat(9)
@cite{AIX@registeredsymbol{} 5L Version 5.1 Portable STREAMS Environment}

@item hpuxcompat(9)
@cite{HP-UX@registeredsymbol{} 11.0i v2 STREAMS/UX}

@item irixcompat(9)
@cite{IRIX@registeredsymbol{} 6.5.17}

@item liscompat(9)
@cite{Linux STREAMS 2.18.0}

@item lfscompat(9)
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS 0.9.2}

@item maccompat(9)
@cite{Mac@registeredsymbol{} OS 9 Open Transport}

@end table

@end ignore
These compatibility modules compile as kernel modules and will be demand loaded into the kernel when
used by a specific @dfn{STREAMS} module or driver.  The compatibility modules ease porting of
@dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from other Operating Systems to @cite{Linux}.

This distribution is only currently applicable to @cite{Linux} 2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted
at @code{ix86}, @code{x86_64}, @code{ppc} and @code{ppc64} architectures, but should build and
install for other architectures as well.

