@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.6 2006/10/05 12:15:50 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/05 12:15:50 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @*
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
* Release strcompat-0.9.2.3::		Release strcompat-0.9.2.3
* Release strcompat-0.9.2.2::		Release strcompat-0.9.2.2
* Release strcompat-0.9.2.1::		Release strcompat-0.9.2.1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

@itemize
@item
Now builds 32-bit compatibility libraries and tests them against 64-bit kernel
modules and drivers.  The @samp{make installcheck} target will now automatically
test both 64-bit native and 32-bit compatibility versions, one after the other,
on 64-bit platforms.

@item
Added versioning of all library symbols.

@item
Many documentation updates for all @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7}
packages.  Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and
timely text documentation present in the release directory.

@item
Dropped support for @cite{LiS}.

@item
Package will now support extended ranges of minor devices on 2.6 kernels under
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} only.

@item
Better detection of SUSE distributions, release numbers and SLES distributions:
support for additional @cite{SuSE} distributions on @code{ix86} as well as
@code{x86_64}.  Added distribution support includes @cite{SLES 9}, @cite{SLES 9
SP2}, @cite{SLES 9 SP3}, @cite{SLES 10}, @cite{SuSE 10.1}.

@item
Improved compiler flag generation and optimizations for recent @command{gcc}
compilers and some idiosyncratic behaviour for some distributions (primarily
SUSE).

@item
Optimized compilation is now available also for user level programs in addition
to kernel programs.  Added new @option{--with-optimize} option to
@command{configure} to accomplish this.

@item
Added @command{--disable-devel} @command{configure} option to suppress building
and installing development environment.  This feature is for embedded or pure
runtime targets that do not need the development environment (static libraries,
manual pages, documentation).

@item
Added @command{send-pr} script for automatic problem report generation.
@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release strcompat-0.9.2.3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release strcompat-0.9.2.3
@cindex release strcompat-0.9.2.3

This release is primarily to support additional compilers (gcc 4.0.2),
architectures (x86_64, SMP, 32-bit compatibility), recent Linux distributions
(EL4, SuSE 10, LE2006, OpenSuSE) and kernels (2.6.15).

@itemize
@item
Corrections for and testing of 64-bit clean compile and test runs on x86_64
architecture.  Some bug corrections resulting from gcc 4.0.2 compiler
warnings.

@item
Changes to satisfy gcc 4.0.2 compiler.

@item
Corrected build flags for Gentoo and 2.6.15 kernels as reported on mailing
list.

@item
Corrections for and testing of 64-bit clean compile and test runs on x86_64
architecture.  Some bug corrections resulting from gcc 4.0.2 compiler
warnings.

@item
Initial corrections for and testing of SMP operation on Intel 630
Hyper-Threaded SMP on x86_64.  This package should now run well on N-way Xeons
even with Hyper-Threading enabled.

@item
Corrections and validation of 32-bit compatibility over 64-bit on x86_64.
Should apply well to other 64-bit architectures as well.
@end itemize

This is a public beta test release of the package.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release strcompat-0.9.2.2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release strcompat-0.9.2.2
@cindex release strcompat-0.9.2.2

This is primarily a bug fixes release and corrections resulting from testing.
This is a major bug fix release.  The previous release was largely untested.
This release has been verified (conformance test suite passes) for operation
with @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (@file{streams-0.7a.4}).

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release strcompat-0.9.2.1
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release strcompat-0.9.2.1
@cindex release strcompat-0.9.2.1

Initial autoconf/RPM packaging of the @command{@value{PACKAGE}} release.

This is the initial release of the @cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS Compatibility}
package for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} (and LiS).  These compatibility modules
were formerly part of the @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} package
(@file{streams-0.7a.3}), however, as they were also applicable to @cite{LiS},
they have been removed into a separate package.  Once @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS} is production grade, these compatibility modules will be rolled
back into the streams package as @cite{LiS} becomes deprecated.

