% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: strcompat.texi,v 0.9.2.18 2008-04-28 16:47:06 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (C) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
% Copyright (C) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 16:47:06 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================

\input texinfo
@setfilename strcompat.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}

@dircategory STREAMS
@direntry
* OpenSS7 COMPAT: (@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}).	An Open STREAMS Compatibility Package.
@end direntry

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file provides the @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of the
@cite{@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results,
provided the printed manual carries copying permission notice identical to
this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this paragraph not being
relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the above conditions for modified versions.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual

@ignore
@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@end ignore
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <@uref{http://www.openss7.com/}> @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> @*
All Rights Reserved. @*

@noindent
Published by OpenSS7 Corporation @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
This is texinfo edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
manual, and is consistent with @value{PACKAGE_NAME} @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}.
This manual was developed under the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7
Project} and was funded in part by
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation}.

@noindent
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the same conditions as for modified versions.

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@page

@c Define an index of authors.
@defindex au

@c Define an index of makefile targets
@defcodeindex mk

@c Define an index of configure output variables.
@c @defcodeindex ov

@c Define an index of configure variables.
@c @defcodeindex cv

@c Define an index of options.
@defcodeindex op

@c Define an index of targets.
@c @defcodeindex tr

@c Define an index of commands.
@c @defcodeindex cm

@c Put the macros and variables into their own index.
@c @syncodeindex fn cp
@c @syncodeindex ov vr
@c @syncodeindex cv vr
@c @syncodeindex fn vr

@c Put everything else into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the concept index).
@c @syncodeindex op cp
@c @syncodeindex tr cp
@c @syncodeindex cm cp

@c An index of manual pages
@defcodeindex mp

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@unnumbered About This Manual
This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of @cite{The
@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Preface::			Preface to this manual

* Quick Start Guide::		Quick Installation Instructions

* Introduction::		Introduction to the package
* Objective::			Objective of the package
* Reference::			Contents of the package
* Porting::			Porting to this package
* Conformance::			Conformance of the package
* Releases::			Releases of the package
* Installation::		Installation of the package
* Troubleshooting::		Troubleshooting of the package

* Licenses::			Copies of OpenSource Licenses

* Indices::			Index of Indices

 ----- detailed node listing -----

Preface

* Notice::			Notices for this package
* Abstract::			Abstract for this manual
* Revisions::			Revisions of this manual
* Disclaimer::			IPR Disclaimers for this package
* Acknowledgements::		Sponsors of and Contributors to the package
* Authors::			Authors of the package
* Maintainer::			Maintainers of the package
* Web Resources::		Web Resources for the package

Introduction

* Overview::			Overview
* Organization::		Organization
* Conventions::			Conventions

Objective

Reference

* Files::			Files included in the package
* Drivers::			Drivers included in the package
* Modules::			Modules included in the package
* Libraries::			Libraries included in the package
* Utilities::			Utilities included in the package
* Development::			Development against the package

Porting

Conformance

* STREAMS Compatibility::	Compatibility with other STREAMS packages

Releases

* Prerequisites::		Prerequisite packages
* Compatibility::		Compatibility Issues
* Release Notes::		Release Notes
* Maturity::			Package Maturity
* Bugs::			Package Defects
* Schedule::			Development and Bug Fix Schedule
* History::			Project History

Installation

* Downloading::			Downloading the package
* Configuration::		Configuration of the package
* Building::			Building the package
* Installing::			Installing the package
* Removing::			Removing the package
* Loading::			Loading the package
* Maintenance::			Maintaining the package

Troubleshooting

* Test Suites::			Test Suites for the package
* Problem Reports::		Problem Reports for the package
* Known Problems::		Known Probelms with the package

Appendices

Licenses

* GNU Affero General Public License::	The AGPL license
* GNU General Public License::		The GPL license
* GNU Lesser General Public License::	The LGPL license
* GNU Free Documentation License::	The FDL license

Indices

* Concept Index::		Index of Concepts
* Type Index::			Index of Data Types
* Function Index::		Index of Functions and Macros
* Variable Index::		Index of Variables and Constants
* File Index::			Index of Files and Programs
* Option Index::		Index of Configuration Options
* Makefile Target Index::	Index of Makefile Targets
* Author Index::		Index of Authors
* Manual Page Index::		Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@end menu

@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@menu
* Notice::			Notices for this package
* Abstract::			Abstract for this manual
* Revisions::			Revisions of this manual
* Disclaimer::			IPR Disclaimers for this package
* Acknowledgements::		Sponsors of and Contributors to the package
* Authors::			Authors of the package
* Maintainer::			Maintainers of the package
* Web Resources::		Web Resources for the package
@end menu

@node Notice
@unnumberedsec Notice
@cindex manual notice
@cindex licensing

This package is released and distributed under the @cite{AGPL} (@pxrefman{GNU Affero General Public
License}).  Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for the manual pages and
some of the documentation (derived from OpenGroup@footnote{Formerly X/Open and UNIX International.}
publications and other sources).  Consult the permission notices contained in the documentation for
more information.

This manual is released under the @cite{FDL} (@pxrefman{GNU Free Documentation License}) with no
sections invariant.

@node Abstract
@unnumberedsec Abstract
@cindex manual abstract

This manual provides a @cite{@value{MANUAL_TYPE}} for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

@unnumberedsubsec Objective
@cindex manual objective

The objective of this manual is to provide a guide for the @dfn{STREAMS} programmer when
developing @dfn{STREAMS} modules, drivers and application programs for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

This guide provides information to developers on the use of the @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism at user and
kernel levels.

@dfn{STREAMS} was incorporated in UNIX System V Release 3 to augment the character input/output
(I/O) mechanism and to support development of communication services.

@dfn{STREAMS} provides developers with integral functions, a set of utility routines, and facilities
that expedite software design and implementation.

@unnumberedsubsec Intent
@cindex manual intent

The intent of this manual is to act as an introductory guide to the @dfn{STREAMS} programmer.  It
is intended to be read alone and is not intended to replace or supplement the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} manual pages.  For a reference for writing code, the manual pages
(see @manref{STREAMS(9)}) provide a better reference to the programmer.
Although this describes the features of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package,
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any software,
system or feature listed herein.

@unnumberedsubsec Audience
@cindex manual audience

This manual is intended for a highly technical audience.  The reader should already be familiar
with @cite{Linux} kernel programming, the @cite{Linux} file system, character devices, driver input
and output, interrupts, software interrupt handling, scheduling, process contexts, multiprocessor
locks, etc.

The guide is intended for network and systems programmers, who use the @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism at
user and kernel levels for @cite{Linux} and @cite{UNIX} system communication services.

Readers of the guide are expected to possess prior knowledge of the @cite{Linux} and @cite{UNIX}
system, programming, networking, and data communication.

@node Revisions
@unnumberedsec Revisions
@cindex manual revisions

Take care that you are working with a current version of this manual: you will not be notified of
updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current version, contact the
@uref{mailto:bidulock@@openss7.org,Author}, or check @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,The OpenSS7
Project} website for a current version.

A current version of this manual is normally distributed with the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package.

@unnumberedsubsec Version Control

@smallexample

$Log: strcompat.texi,v $
Revision 0.9.2.18  2008-04-28 16:47:06  brian
- updates for release

Revision 0.9.2.17  2008-04-25 11:50:49  brian
- updates to AGPLv3

Revision 0.9.2.16  2007/08/12 06:44:20  brian
- updated licenses in manuals

Revision 0.9.2.15  2007/02/28 06:30:45  brian
- updates and corrections, #ifdef instead of #if

Revision 0.9.2.14  2007/01/03 14:57:17  brian
- documentation updates for release

Revision 0.9.2.13  2006/12/29 12:18:28  brian
- old rpms hate nested ifs, release updates

Revision 0.9.2.12  2006/10/21 10:01:12  brian
- updated streams release number

Revision 0.9.2.11  2006/09/18 01:06:34  brian
- updated manuals and release texi docs

Revision 0.9.2.10  2006/08/28 10:46:56  brian
- correction

Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/08/28 10:32:53  brian
- updated references

Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/08/27 12:26:42  brian
- finalizing auto release files

Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/08/26 09:17:54  brian
- better release file generation

Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/08/23 11:00:32  brian
- added preface, corrections and updates for release

Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/08/22 12:57:09  brian
- updated documentation

Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/03/22 10:02:03  brian
- added makefile target index

Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/03/03 11:11:14  brian
- 64-bit compatibility, fixes, updates for release

Revision 0.9.2.2  2005/07/08 13:15:59  brian
- updates to documentation

Revision 0.9.2.1  2005/07/04 19:28:53  brian
- first cut at streams compatibility package

Revision 0.9  2005/07/04 19:28:53  brian
file strcompat.texi was initially added on branch OpenSS7-0_9_2.

@end smallexample

@unnumberedsubsec ISO 9000 Compliance

Only the @TeX{}, texinfo, or roff source for this manual is controlled.  An opaque (printed,
postscript or portable document format) version of this manual is an @strong{UNCONTROLLED
VERSION}.

@node Disclaimer
@unnumberedsec Disclaimer
@cindex manual disclaimer

@noindent
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all
implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title;
that the contents of the manual are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} be liable for any direct, indirect, special or
consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with
any use of this manual or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.

@noindent
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any
reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies,
utilization of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the
design of any techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  @cite{OpenSS7
Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@unnumberedsubsec U.S. Government Restricted Rights

If you are licensing this Software on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it is
classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to
the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government is
acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights customarily provided to
non-Government users).  If the Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other
than DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights in the
Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any
successor regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to
the FAR (or any successor regulations).

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Acknowledgements
@unnumberedsec Acknowledgements
@cindex credits

@include texi/funding.texi

@node Authors
@unnumberedsec Authors
@cindex authors

The authors of the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package include:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
@auindex Bidulock, Brian
@end multitable

See @refman{Author Index}, for a complete listing and cross-index of authors to
sections of this manual.

@node Maintainer
@unnumberedsec Maintainer
@cindex maintainer

The maintainer of the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
@end multitable

Please send bug reports to @email{@value{PACKAGE_BUGREPORT}} using the @file{send-pr} script
included in the package, only after reading the @file{BUGS} file in the release, or @xrefman{Problem
Reports}.

@node Web Resources
@unnumberedsec Web Resources
@cindex web resources

@include texi/mail.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Quick Start Guide
@unnumbered Quick Start Guide
@cindex quick start guide

@include texi/quick.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@cindex introduction

This manual documents the design, implementation, installation, operation and future development
schedule of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Overview::			Overview
* Organization::		Organization
* Conventions::			Conventions
@end menu

@ignore
@node Notice
@section Notice
@cindex notice
@cindex licensing

This package is released and distributed under the @cite{AGPL} (@pxrefman{GNU Affero General Public
License}).  Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for the manual pages and
some of the documentation (derived from OpenGroup@footnote{Formerly X/Open and UNIX International.}
publications and other sources).  Consult the permission notices contained in the documentation for
more information.

This manual is released under the @cite{FDL} (@pxrefman{GNU Free Documentation License}) with no
sections invariant.
@end ignore

@node Overview
@section Overview
@cindex overview

This manual documents the design, implementation, installation, operation and future development of
the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@node Organization
@section Organization of this Manual
@cindex organization

This manual is organized (loosely) into several sections as follows:

@ifnottex
@menu
  Introduction::		This introduction
* Objective::			Objective of the package
* Reference::			Contents of the package
* Porting::			Porting to this package
* Conformance::			Conformance of the package
* Releases::			Releases of the package
* Installation::		Installation of the package
* Troubleshooting::		Troubleshooting of the package
@end menu
@end ifnottex
@ifnotinfo
@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @ref{Introduction}.
@tab This introduction
@item @ref{Objective}.
@tab Objective of the package
@item @ref{Reference}.
@tab Contents of the package
@item @ref{Porting}.
@tab Porting to this package
@item @ref{Conformance}.
@tab Conformance of the package
@item @ref{Releases}.
@tab Releases of the package
@item @ref{Installation}.
@tab Installation of the package
@item @ref{Troubleshooting}.
@tab Troubleshooting of the package
@end multitable
@end ifnotinfo
@ifplaintext
@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @cite{Introduction}.
@tab This introduction
@item @cite{Objective}.
@tab Objective of the package
@item @cite{Reference}.
@tab Contents of the package
@item @cite{Porting}.
@tab Porting to this package
@item @cite{Conformance}.
@tab Conformance of the package
@item @cite{Releases}.
@tab Releases of the package
@item @cite{Installation}.
@tab Installation of the package
@item @cite{Troubleshooting}.
@tab Troubleshooting of the package
@end multitable
@end ifplaintext

@node Conventions
@section Conventions and Definitions
@cindex conventions
@cindex definitions

This manual uses @cite{texinfo} typographic conventions.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Objective
@chapter Objective
@cindex objective

@menu
* Rationale::
* Use with Linux STREAMS::
* Use with Linux Fast-STREAMS::
@end menu

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is intended to provide maximum compatibility between
@cite{Linux STREAMS (LiS)} or @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS (LfS)} and other @dfn{STREAMS} implementations on
major UNIX operating systems, for the purpose of porting existing @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from
those operating system to @dfn{Linux}.

Also, the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package aims to provide compatibility between @cite{Linux
STREAMS (LiS)} and @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} to ease the porting of @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from
@cite{LiS} to @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} with minimal effort.

To meet that objective, @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} aims to support the @dfn{STREAMS} DDI/DKI and
registration functions of the following @dfn{STREAMS} implementations:

@sp 1
@itemize
@item UNIX System V Release 3.2
@item UNIX System V Release 4 MP
@item UNIX System V Release 4.0 MP
@item UNIX System V Release 4.2 MP
@item Mentat Portable Streams (MPS)
@item Linux STREAMS LiS 2.16
@item Linux STREAMS LiS 2.18
@item Linux Fast-STREAMS 0.7a
@item Linux Fast-STREAMS 0.9.2
@item AIX 5L Version 5.1 Portable STREAMS Environment (PSE)
@item HP-UX 11.0i v2 STREAMS/UX
@item OSF/1.2 - Digital UNIX STREAMS
@item UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8) STREAMS
@item Solaris 9/SunOS 5.9 (OpenSolaris) STREAMS
@item Mac OS 9 OpenTransport 1.5r2
@item IRIX 6.5.17 STREAMS
@item SUPER-UX Release 9.2
@item UXP/V V10L10 STREAMS V10
@end itemize

@sp 1
Because it is not necessary to have all of these compatibility modules loaded at a given time, and
to reduce the footprint of the resulting kernel modules, the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package
implements these compatibility modules as separate demand loadable @dfn{Linux} kernel modules.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package contains compatibility modules that were originally part of
the @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} package.  They have been separated into an package independent from
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} for the purpose of provide some of the same capabilities to @cite{Linux
STREAMS (LiS)} in advance of production releases of @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.

@page
@node Rationale
@section Rationale
@cindex rationale

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is designed and implemented to be compatible with as many
@cite{SVR 4.2 MP} based implementations of @dfn{STREAMS}a s possible.  This is done for several
reasons:

@enumerate
@item Porting legacy drivers to @dfn{Linux}:

Many legacy @dfn{STREAMS} drivers have been written and developed for @cite{SVR 4.2 MP} or
@dfn{UNIX} systems based on @cite{SVR 4.2 MP}.  Remaining compatible with as many implementations as
possible permits these legacy drivers to be easily ported from their native @dfn{UNIX} variant to
the @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} environment, thus quickly porting these legacy drivers to @dfn{Linux}.

@item Leverage of knowledge base:

Many developers are familiar with one or another of the mainstream @dfn{UNIX} implementations of
@cite{SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS}.  By remaining as compatible as possible with all these implementations
of @dfn{STREAMS} permits knowledge and expertise in the @dfn{UNIX} variant of @dfn{STREAMS} to be
transferred and applied to @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} on @dfn{Linux}.

@item Reverse portability:

Because it is compatible as possible with other @dfn{STREAMS} implementations, @dfn{STREAMS} drivers
and modules developed on @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} can easily be ported to other implementations if
a set of compatibility and portability guidelines are followed.  This allows @dfn{STREAMS} driver and
modules developed on the @dfn{Linux} operating system to be used on branded @dfn{UNIX} systems with
minimal porting and modification.

@item Multiple baselines:

Because the source code developed for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} can remain quite close to that for
other mainstream @dfn{UNIX} implementations of @cite{SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS}, it is possible to have
multiple baselines for different architectures in the same source code files.  This eases the
maintenance of @dfn{STREAMS} drivers and modules across @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} and other
@dfn{UNIX} systems.

@item Standardization:

By being as compatible as possible with many @dfn{STREAMS} implementations as possible, @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS} implements an ipso facto standard.  Unfortunately, the @url{http://www.opengroup.org/,
OpenGroup} and @cite{POSIX} have been very lacking in the standardization of internal kernel
interfaces such as @dfn{STREAMS}.  Maximum compatibility moves close to providing a standard for
such interfaces.

@item Licensing and Technology Binding

By implementing an ipso facto standard, independent @dfn{STREAMS} drivers and modules written to the
technical interface avoid being impinged upon by the GNU Affero Public License under which @cite{Linux
STREAMS} and @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} are distributed.

@end enumerate

@node Use with Linux STREAMS
@section Use with Linux STREAMS
@cindex use with linux fast-streams

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package was originally part of the @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} base
package, @file{streams}.  The purpose for separating the package was originally to support both
@cite{LiS} and @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} until such time as @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} was a suitable
production replacement for @cite{LiS}.  With release @b{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}, @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS} is a far superior production replacement for @cite{LiS} and @cite{LiS} is now
deprecated.  Although, at one time, the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package worked with @cite{LiS},
it is no longer supported on @cite{LiS} and is only tested and validated for @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.  Even when it was supported, @cite{LiS} has so many bugs, deficiencies and
incompatibilities in the Stream head, that it was not possible to obtain usable compatibility in
conjunction with @cite{LiS}.  @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} does not have these problems.

@node Use with Linux Fast-STREAMS
@section Use with Linux Fast-STREAMS
@cindex use with linux fast-streams

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package functions much better with the @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}
implementation with which it was originally intended to function.  @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}
provides a superset of the capabilities of @cite{SVR 4.2 MP} intended to provide compatibility
across as many mainstream @cite{UNIX} implementations of @dfn{STREAMS} as possible.  Also,
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} does not have the bugs, races, deficiencies, and other difficulties
present in the @cite{LiS} package.@footnote{@cite{The OpenSS7 Project} really has no vested interest
in promoting @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} over @cite{LiS}.  The project uses @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}
instead of @cite{LiS} based on technical merit alone.  @cite{The OpenSS7 Project} has released both
@cite{LiS} and @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} packages and has provided support for both packages up
until the production release of @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  Many of the @cite{OpenSS7 Project}
@dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers will still run under @cite{LiS}, albeit with far less performance
far poorer conformance to standards, and the all too frequent kernel crashes experienced with
@cite{LiS}.}


@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Reference
@chapter Reference
@cindex reference

@menu
* Files::			Files included in the package
* Drivers::			Drivers included in the package
* Modules::			Modules included in the package
* Libraries::			Libraries included in the package
* Utilities::			Utilities included in the package
* Development::			Development against the package
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Files
@section Files
@cindex headers

The following sections provide a manifest of the files that are installed by the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package:

@include tree.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Drivers
@section Drivers
@cindex drivers

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package only includes drivers for the purpose of providing examples
of the use of the utility functions included in the package, as well as to provide loadable drivers
for the purpose of test suite execution.  If you are not interested in test suite execution, these
drivers can be removed.

@dfn{STREAMS} drivers included in the package are as follows:

@table @file
@item streams_aixdrv.ko
@pgindex streams_aixdrv.ko
an example driver for testing
@cite{AIX 5L Version 5.1 Portable STREAMS Environment (PSE)}
compatibility.
@item streams_hpuxdrv.ko
@pgindex streams_hpuxdrv.ko
an example driver for testing
@cite{HP-UX 11.0i v2 STREAMS/UX}
compatibility.
@item streams_irixdrv.ko
@pgindex streams_irixdrv.ko
an example driver for testing
@cite{IRIX 6.5.17 STREAMS}
compatibility.
@item streams_lfsdrv.ko
@pgindex streams_lfsdrv.ko
an example driver for testing
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS @value{VERSION_STREAMS}}
compatibility.
@item streams_lisdrv.ko
@pgindex streams_lisdrv.ko
an example driver for testing
@cite{Linux STREAMS LiS 2.16 and LiS 2.18}
compatibility.
@item streams_macdrv.ko
@pgindex streams_macdrv.ko
an example driver for testing
@cite{Mac OS 9 OpenTransport 1.5r2}
compatibility.
@item streams_mpsdrv.ko
@pgindex streams_mpsdrv.ko
an example driver for testing
@cite{Mentat Portable Streams (MPS)}
compatibility.
@item streams_osfdrv.ko
@pgindex streams_osfdrv.ko
an example driver for testing
@cite{OSF/1.2 - Digital UNIX STREAMS}
compatibility.
@item streams_sundrv.ko
@pgindex streams_sundrv.ko
an example driver for testing
@cite{Solaris 9/SunOS 5.9 (OpenSolaris) STREAMS}
compatibility.
@item streams_suxdrv.ko
@pgindex streams_suxdrv.ko
an example driver for testing
@cite{SUPER-UX Release 9.2}
compatibility.
@item streams_svr3drv.ko
@pgindex streams_svr3drv.ko
an example driver for testing
@cite{UNIX System V Release 3.2}
compatibility.
@item streams_svr4drv.ko
@pgindex streams_svr4drv.ko
an example driver for testing
@cite{UNIX System V Release 4.2 MP}
compatibility.
@item streams_uw7drv.ko
@pgindex streams_uw7drv.ko
an example driver for testing
@cite{UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8) STREAMS}
compatibility.
@item streams_uxpdrv.ko
@pgindex streams_uxpdrv.ko
an example driver for testing
@cite{UXP/V V10L10 STREAMS V10}
compatibility.
@end table

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Modules
@section Modules
@cindex modules

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package only includes modules for the purpose of providing examples
of the use of the utility functions included in the package, as well as to provide loadable modules
for the purpose of test suite execution.  If you are not interested in test suite execution, these
modules can be removed.

@dfn{STREAMS} modules included in the package are as follows:

@table @file
@item streams_aixmod.ko
@pgindex streams_aixmod.ko
an example module for testing
@cite{AIX 5L Version 5.1 Portable STREAMS Environment (PSE)}
compatibility.
@item streams_hpuxmod.ko
@pgindex streams_hpuxmod.ko
an example module for testing
@cite{HP-UX 11.0i v2 STREAMS/UX}
compatibility.
@item streams_irixmod.ko
@pgindex streams_irixmod.ko
an example module for testing
@cite{IRIX 6.5.17 STREAMS}
compatibility.
@item streams_lfsmod.ko
@pgindex streams_lfsmod.ko
an example module for testing
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS @value{VERSION_STREAMS}}
compatibility.
@item streams_lismod.ko
@pgindex streams_lismod.ko
an example module for testing
@cite{Linux STREAMS LiS 2.16 and LiS 2.18}
compatibility.
@item streams_macmod.ko
@pgindex streams_macmod.ko
an example module for testing
@cite{Mac OS 9 OpenTransport 1.5r2}
compatibility.
@item streams_mpsmod.ko
@pgindex streams_mpsmod.ko
an example module for testing
@cite{Mentat Portable Streams (MPS)}
compatibility.
@item streams_osfmod.ko
@pgindex streams_osfmod.ko
an example module for testing
@cite{OSF/1.2 - Digital UNIX STREAMS}
compatibility.
@item streams_sunmod.ko
@pgindex streams_sunmod.ko
an example module for testing
@cite{Solaris 9/SunOS 5.9 (OpenSolaris) STREAMS}
compatibility.
@item streams_suxmod.ko
@pgindex streams_suxmod.ko
an example module for testing
@cite{SUPER-UX Release 9.2}
compatibility.
@item streams_svr3mod.ko
@pgindex streams_svr3mod.ko
an example module for testing
@cite{UNIX System V Release 3.2}
compatibility.
@item streams_svr4mod.ko
@pgindex streams_svr4mod.ko
an example module for testing
@cite{UNIX System V Release 4.2 MP}
compatibility.
@item streams_uw7mod.ko
@pgindex streams_uw7mod.ko
an example module for testing
@cite{UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8) STREAMS}
compatibility.
@item streams_uxpmod.ko
@pgindex streams_uxpmod.ko
an example module for testing
@cite{UXP/V V10L10 STREAMS V10}
compatibility.
@end table


@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Libraries
@section Libraries
@cindex libraries


@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Utilities
@section Utilities
@cindex utilities

@menu
* AIX Utilities::
* HP-UX Utilities::
* IRIX Utilities::
* LfS Utilities::
* LiS Utilities::
* MacOT Utilities::
* MPS Utilities::
* OSF Utilities::
* Solaris Utilities::
* SUPER-UX Utilities::
* SVR3 Utilities::
* SVR4 Utilities::
* UnixWare Utilities::
* UXP/V Utilities::
@end menu

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package does not provide any system utilities of its own.  For a
set of system utilities that are compatible across the same wide range of operating systems, use the
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS Utilities} package.

What the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package does provide is a set of kernel modules that provide
compatibility utilities to the STREAMS module or driver developer.  These kernel modules are as
follows:

@table @file
@item streams_aixcompat.ko
@pgindex streams_aixcompat.ko
@dfn{STREAMS} module writer utilities for
@cite{AIX 5L Version 5.1 Portable STREAMS Environment (PSE)}
compatibility.
@item streams_hpuxcompat.ko
@pgindex streams_hpuxcompat.ko
@dfn{STREAMS} module writer utilities for
@cite{HP-UX 11.0i v2 STREAMS/UX}
compatibility.
@item streams_irixcompat.ko
@pgindex streams_irixcompat.ko
@dfn{STREAMS} module writer utilities for
@cite{IRIX 6.5.17 STREAMS}
compatibility.
@item streams_lfscompat.ko
@pgindex streams_lfscompat.ko
@dfn{STREAMS} module writer utilities for
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS @value{VERSION_STREAMS}}
compatibility.
@item streams_liscompat.ko
@pgindex streams_liscompat.ko
@dfn{STREAMS} module writer utilities for
@cite{Linux STREAMS LiS 2.16 and LiS 2.18}
compatibility.
@item streams_maccompat.ko
@pgindex streams_maccompat.ko
@dfn{STREAMS} module writer utilities for
@cite{Mac OS 9 OpenTransport 1.5r2}
compatibility.
@item streams_mpscompat.ko
@pgindex streams_mpscompat.ko
@dfn{STREAMS} module writer utilities for
@cite{Mentat Portable Streams (MPS)}
compatibility.
@item streams_osfcompat.ko
@pgindex streams_osfcompat.ko
@dfn{STREAMS} module writer utilities for
@cite{OSF/1.2 - Digital UNIX STREAMS}
compatibility.
@item streams_suncompat.ko
@pgindex streams_suncompat.ko
@dfn{STREAMS} module writer utilities for
@cite{Solaris 9/SunOS 5.9 (OpenSolaris) STREAMS}
compatibility.
@item streams_suxcompat.ko
@pgindex streams_suxcompat.ko
@dfn{STREAMS} module writer utilities for
@cite{SUPER-UX Release 9.2}
compatibility.
@item streams_svr3compat.ko
@pgindex streams_svr3compat.ko
@dfn{STREAMS} module writer utilities for
@cite{UNIX System V Release 3.2}
compatibility.
@item streams_svr4compat.ko
@pgindex streams_svr4compat.ko
@dfn{STREAMS} module writer utilities for
@cite{UNIX System V Release 4.2 MP}
compatibility.
@item streams_uw7compat.ko
@pgindex streams_uw7compat.ko
@dfn{STREAMS} module writer utilities for
@cite{UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8) STREAMS}
compatibility.
@item streams_uxpcompat.ko
@pgindex streams_uxpcompat.ko
@dfn{STREAMS} module writer utilities for
@cite{UXP/V V10L10 STREAMS V10}
compatibility.
@end table

@node AIX Utilities
@subsection AIX Utilities

@node HP-UX Utilities
@subsection HP-UX Utilities

@node IRIX Utilities
@subsection IRIX Utilities

@node LfS Utilities
@subsection LfS Utilities

@node LiS Utilities
@subsection LiS Utilities

@node MacOT Utilities
@subsection MacOT Utilities

@node MPS Utilities
@subsection MPS Utilities

@node OSF Utilities
@subsection OSF Utilities

@node Solaris Utilities
@subsection Solaris Utilities

@node SUPER-UX Utilities
@subsection SUPER-UX Utilities

@node SVR3 Utilities
@subsection SVR3 Utilities

@node SVR4 Utilities
@subsection SVR4 Utilities

@node UnixWare Utilities
@subsection UnixWare Utilities

@node UXP/V Utilities
@subsection UXP/V Utilities

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Development
@section Development
@cindex developing

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package contains the necessary header files, shared and static
libraries, manuals and manual pages, necessary for the development of kernel modules, @dfn{STREAMS}
modules and drivers, and applications programs based on the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@menu
* Development Header Files::
* Static and Shared Libraries::
* Kernel Module Development::
* Manual Pages::
@end menu

@node Development Header Files
@subsection Header Files

Header files are installed, typically, in the @file{/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/}
subdirectory.@footnote{One of the major reasons for using this non-standard subdirectory is to avoid
conflict with header files already located in the @file{/usr/include} directory.}  To use the header
files from the package, @samp{-I/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}} must be included in the @command{gcc}
command line as a preprocessor option.  This is true regardless of whether user space or kernel
programs are being compiled.

In general, @samp{-I} include directives on the @command{gcc} command line should be ordered in the
reverse order of the dependencies between add-on packages.  So, for example, if the include files
from all add-on packages are required, the order of these directives would be:
@samp{-I/usr/include/strcompat -I/usr/include/streams}.

Following are the user visible header files provided by the
@command{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}} package in directory @file{/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/}:

@table @file

@item sys/stream.h
A replacement @file{stream.h} file

@item sys/strconf.h
A replacement @file{strconf.h} file

@item sys/ddi.h
A replacement @file{ddi.h} file

@item sys/strsun.h
A replacement @file{strsun.h} file

@item sys/sunddi.h
A replacement @file{sunddi.h} file

@end table

@subsubsection User Space Programs

Typically include files for interacting with @dfn{STREAMS} from user space include the
@file{stropts.h} header file.  Additional files for interacting with specific drivers or module may
also be required.  The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package does not provide any user space header
files.

@subsubsection Kernel Driver and Modules

Typical include files for writing @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers for kernel include the
@file{sys/cmn_err.h}, @file{sys/kmem.h}, @file{sys/dki.h}, @file{sys/stream.h}, @file{sys/ddi.h},
and @file{sys/strconf.h} header files.  Additional header files for interacting with specific
drivers or modules may also be required.

@node Static and Shared Libraries
@subsection Libraries

Shared or static versions of the @file{libstreams} library must be linked when using the
@command{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}} package.  This library must either be specified on the
@command{gcc} command line as a shared library (e.g. @samp{-lstreams}) or as a static library (e.g.
@samp{/usr/lib/libstreams.a}).

If the shared library is linked, include the following options on the @command{gcc} command line:

@table @asis

@end table

If the static library is linked, include the following options on the @command{gcc} command line:

@table @asis

@end table

@node Kernel Module Development
@subsection Kernel Module

Developing @dfn{STREAMS} kernel modules is similar to user space programs with regard to header
files.  @file{/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}} should be placed as as include directory to search in
the @command{gcc} command line.  The rules for compiling @cite{Linux} kernel modules should be
followed.  In particular, several important intricacies should be considered:

@itemize @bullet

@item
The @command{gcc} compiler used to compile the kernel modules must be the same version of compiler
that was used to compile the kernel.

@item
The @command{gcc} command line must have the same compile flags that were used to compile the
kernel.

@item
The @command{gcc} command line must define several important kernel defines including
@samp{-DLINUX}, @samp{-D__KERNEL__}, as well as the base name of the module.

@item
The @command{gcc} command line must include several important include files directly on the command
line such as @samp{--include
/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-build/@-include/@-linux/@-autoconf.h} and maybe even
@samp{--include
/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-build/@-include/@-linux/@-modversion.h}.@footnote{The kernel
version @samp{@value{_kversion}} if just an example.  For the running kernel, use the output of
@samp{uname -r}.}

@end itemize

@node Manual Pages
@subsection Manual Pages

The @command{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}} package installs a number of manual pages.  The number
of manual pages installed totals several hundred manual pages.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Porting
@chapter Porting
@cindex porting

Although each of the manual pages of supported functions and structures provide compatibility and
porting information in the @cite{COMPATIBILITY} and @cite{CONFORMANCE} sections, this document
attempts to collect together some of the overarching pertinent information concerning porting from
various @cite{UNIX} operation systems support @dfn{STREAMS} to @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  For
general portability information concerning porting @emph{from} @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} to other
@dfn{STREAMS} implementations, to avoid technical lock-in, see the @cite{COMPATIBILITY} section in
the manual page for the specific function.

The porting information is organized by the operating system from which porting is being attempted.
Note that, aside from configuration details, any system not listed here that is based on @cite{SVR
4.2 MP} or on another of the implementations, should start with that implementation's portability
information.

Porting information is organized into sections as follows:

@menu
* SVR 3.2 Porting::
* SVR 4.2 Porting::
* MPS Porting::
* AIX Porting::
* HP-UX Porting::
* IRIX Porting::
* LfS Porting::
* LiS Porting::
* MacOT Porting::
* OSF/1 Porting::
* Solaris Porting::
* SUX Porting::
* UnixWare Porting::
* UXP Porting::
@end menu

@ignore
@table @cite
@item --- SVR 4.2 ES/MP
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{SVR 4.2 ES/MP}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from SVR 4.2 MP, , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@item --- AIX 5L Version 5.1
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{AIX 5L Version 5.1}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from AIX 5L Version 5.1, , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@item --- HP-UX 11.0i v2
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{HP-UX 11.0i v2}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from HP-UX 11.0i v2, , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@item --- OSF/1 1.2/Digital UNIX/True 64
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{OSF/1 1.2/Digital UNIX/True 64}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from OSF/1 1.2/Digital UNIX, , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@item --- UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8)
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8)}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8), , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@item --- Solaris 9/SunOS 5.9
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{Solaris 9/SunOS 5.9}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from Solaris 9/SunOS 5.9, , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@item --- SUPER-UX
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{SUPER-UX}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from SUPER-UX, , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@item --- UXP/V
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{UXP/V}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from UXP/V, , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.

@item --- LiS-2.16.18
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for source level compatibility with
@cite{LiS-2.16.18}
and to ease porting of modules and drivers to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
Portability considerations are maintained in a separate manual:
@pxref{Porting from Linux STREAMS (LiS) 2.16.18, , , porting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.
@end table

For additional details,
@pxref{Top, , About This Manual, proting, Linux Fast-STREAMS Porting Guide}.
@end ignore

@node SVR 3.2 Porting
@section SVR 3.2 Porting
@cindex SVR 3.2 porting
@cindex porting from SVR 3.2

Detailed portability information for porting @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from @cite{SVR 3.2}
to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is contained in this package under the @manref{svr3compat(9)} manual
page.  This package also contains specific compatibility functions in the
@file{streams_svr3compat.ko} module.

@menu
* Differences from SVR 3.2::
* Commonalities with SVR 3.2::
* Compatibility functions for SVR 3.2::
* Configuration with SVR 3.2::
@end menu

This section captures portability information for @cite{SVR 3.2} based systems.  If the operating
system from which you are porting more closely fits one of the other portability sections, please
see that section.
For the most part, porting from @cite{SVR 3.2} to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is not much different
than porting forward from @cite{SVR 3.2} to @cite{SVR 4.2 MP}.  If you wish to be able to access
some backward compatible @cite{SVR 3.2} functions, use the @cite{SVR 3.2} Compatibility Module.
Therefore, it is recommended that @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers for @cite{SVR 3.2} be ported
forward to @cite{SVR 4.2 MP} before being ported to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

@node Differences from SVR 3.2
@subsection Differences from SVR 3.2
@cindex differences from svr 3.2

The most significant difference in @cite{SVR 3.2} and @cite{SVR 4.2 MP} was the declaration of the
queue open and close routine entry points.  Some @dfn{STREAMS} implementations still support both
@cite{SVR 3.2} entry point declarations as well as @cite{SVR 4.2 MP} entry point declarations.
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} only supports the @cite{SVR 4.2 MP} style entry points.
@cite{SVR 3.2} was not MP-safe.  @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is MP-safe.

A significant number of utilities were implemented in @cite{SVR 3.2} as architecture dependent
macros.  In @cite{SVR 4.2 MP} these became architecture independent function calls.
In general, @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is different from @cite{SVR 3.2} in any way that @cite{SVR
3.2} is different from @cite{SVR 4.2 MP}.

@node Commonalities with SVR 3.2
@subsection Commonalities with SVR 3.2
@cindex commonalities with svr 3.2

In general, most of the @dfn{STREAMS} utility functions that were present in @cite{SVR 3.2} also
made it into @cite{SVR 4} (with few exceptions).  @cite{SVR 3.2} did not yet have the concept of a
DDI/DKI, but the @dfn{STREAMS} functions present in @cite{SVR 3.2} appear in the @cite{SVR 4.2 MP}
DDI/DKI.

@node Compatibility functions for SVR 3.2
@subsection Compatibility functions for SVR 3.2
@cindex compatibility functions for svr 3.2

@ftable @manref

@item alloc_proto(9)
Allocate control and data message blocks.

@item emajor(9)
Get the external (real) major device number from the device number.

@item eminor(9)
Get the external extended major device number from the device number.

@end ftable

@node Configuration with SVR 3.2
@subsection Configuration with SVR 3.2
@cindex configuration with svr 3.2

I have never seen a description of @cite{SVR 3.2} @dfn{STREAMS} configuration.
I can only assume that it involved relinking the kernel in some fashion.

@node SVR 4.2 Porting
@section SVR 4.2 Porting
@cindex SVR 4.2 porting
@cindex porting from SVR 4.2

Detailed portability information for porting @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from @cite{SVR 4.2}
to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is contained in this package under the @manref{svr3compat(9)} manual
page.  This package also contains specific compatibility functions in the
@file{streams_svr3compat.ko} module.

This section captures portability information for @cite{SVR 4.2 MP} based systems.  If the operating
system from which you are porting more closely fits one of the other portability section, please see
that section.

@menu
* Differences from SVR 4.2::
* Commonalities with SVR 4.2::
* Compatibility functions for SVR 4.2::
* Configuration with SVR 4.2::
@end menu

@node Differences from SVR 4.2
@subsection Differences from SVR 4.2
@cindex differences from svr 4.2

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} have very few difference from @cite{SVR 4.2 MP}.  Not all @cite{SVR 4.2
MP} functions are implemented in the base @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} kernel modules.  Some
functions are included in the @cite{SVR 4.2 MP} Compatibility Module (@file{streams_svr4compat.ko})
from the @file{strcompat} package.

@subsection Priority Levels
@cindex priority levels

@b{Linux} has a different concept of priority levels @cite{SVR 4.2 MP}.
@b{Linux} has basically 4 priority levels as follows:

@enumerate

@item Preemptive

At this priority level, software and hardware interrupts are enabled and the kernel is executing
with preemption enabled.  This means that the currently executing kernel thread could preempt and
sleep in favour of another thread of kernel execution.

This priority level only exist on preemptive (mostly 2.6) kernels.

@item Non-Preemptive

At this priority level, software and hardware interrupts are enabled and the kernel is executing
with preemption disabled.  This means that the currently executing kernel thread will only be
interrupted by software or hardware interrupts.

This priority level exists in all kernels.

@item Software Interrupts Disabled

At this priority level, software interrupts are disabled and the kernel is executing with preemption
disabled.  This means that the currently executing kernel thread will only be interrupted by
hardware interrupts.

This is the case when the executing thread is processing a software interrupt, or when the currently
executing thread has disabled software interrupts.

This priority level exists in all kernels.

@item Interrupt Service Routines Disabled

At this priority level, hardware interrupts are disabled and the kernel is executing with preemption
disabled.  This means that the currently executing kernel thread will not be interrupted.

This is the case when the executing thread is processing a hardware interrupt, or when the currently
executing thread has disabled hardware interrupts.

This priority level exists in all kernels.

@end enumerate

@node Commonalities with SVR 4.2
@subsection Commonalities with SVR 4.2
@cindex commonalities with svr 4.2

@node Compatibility functions for SVR 4.2
@subsection Compatibility functions for SVR 4.2
@cindex compatibility functions for svr 4.2

@node Configuration with SVR 4.2
@subsection Configuration with SVR 4.2
@cindex configuration with svr 4.2

@node MPS Porting
@section MPS Porting
@cindex MPS porting
@cindex porting from MPS

Detailed portability information for porting @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from @cite{MPS}
to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is contained in this package under the @manref{svr3compat(9)} manual
page.  This package also contains specific compatibility functions in the
@file{streams_svr3compat.ko} module.

@menu
* Differences from MPS::
* Commonalities with MPS::
* Compatibility functions for MPS::
* Configuration with MPS::
@end menu

@node Differences from MPS
@subsection Differences from MPS
@cindex differences from MPS

@node Commonalities with MPS
@subsection Commonalities with MPS
@cindex commonalities with MPS

@node Compatibility functions for MPS
@subsection Compatibility functions for MPS
@cindex compatibility functions for MPS

@node Configuration with MPS
@subsection Configuration with MPS
@cindex configuration with MPS

@node AIX Porting
@section AIX Porting
@cindex AIX porting
@cindex porting from AIX

Detailed portability information for porting @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from @cite{AIX}
to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is contained in this package under the @manref{svr3compat(9)} manual
page.  This package also contains specific compatibility functions in the
@file{streams_svr3compat.ko} module.

@menu
* Differences from AIX::
* Commonalities with AIX::
* Compatibility functions for AIX::
* Configuration with AIX::
@end menu

@node Differences from AIX
@subsection Differences from AIX
@cindex differences from AIX

@node Commonalities with AIX
@subsection Commonalities with AIX
@cindex commonalities with AIX

@node Compatibility functions for AIX
@subsection Compatibility functions for AIX
@cindex compatibility functions for AIX

@node Configuration with AIX
@subsection Configuration with AIX
@cindex configuration with AIX

@node HP-UX Porting
@section HP-UX Porting
@cindex HP-UX porting
@cindex porting from HP-UX

Detailed portability information for porting @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from @cite{HP-UX}
to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is contained in this package under the @manref{svr3compat(9)} manual
page.  This package also contains specific compatibility functions in the
@file{streams_svr3compat.ko} module.

@menu
* Differences from HP-UX::
* Commonalities with HP-UX::
* Compatibility functions for HP-UX::
* Configuration with HP-UX::
@end menu

@node Differences from HP-UX
@subsection Differences from HP-UX
@cindex differences from HP-UX

@node Commonalities with HP-UX
@subsection Commonalities with HP-UX
@cindex commonalities with HP-UX

@node Compatibility functions for HP-UX
@subsection Compatibility functions for HP-UX
@cindex compatibility functions for HP-UX

@node Configuration with HP-UX
@subsection Configuration with HP-UX
@cindex configuration with HP-UX

@node IRIX Porting
@section IRIX Porting
@cindex IRIX porting
@cindex porting from IRIX

Detailed portability information for porting @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from @cite{IRIX}
to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is contained in this package under the @manref{svr3compat(9)} manual
page.  This package also contains specific compatibility functions in the
@file{streams_svr3compat.ko} module.

@menu
* Differences from IRIX::
* Commonalities with IRIX::
* Compatibility functions for IRIX::
* Configuration with IRIX::
@end menu

@node Differences from IRIX
@subsection Differences from IRIX
@cindex differences from IRIX

@node Commonalities with IRIX
@subsection Commonalities with IRIX
@cindex commonalities with IRIX

@node Compatibility functions for IRIX
@subsection Compatibility functions for IRIX
@cindex compatibility functions for IRIX

@node Configuration with IRIX
@subsection Configuration with IRIX
@cindex configuration with IRIX

@node LfS Porting
@section LfS Porting
@cindex LfS porting
@cindex porting from LfS

Detailed portability information for porting @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from @cite{LfS}
to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is contained in this package under the @manref{svr3compat(9)} manual
page.  This package also contains specific compatibility functions in the
@file{streams_svr3compat.ko} module.

@menu
* Differences from LfS::
* Commonalities with LfS::
* Compatibility functions for LfS::
* Configuration with LfS::
@end menu

@node Differences from LfS
@subsection Differences from LfS
@cindex differences from LfS

@node Commonalities with LfS
@subsection Commonalities with LfS
@cindex commonalities with LfS

@node Compatibility functions for LfS
@subsection Compatibility functions for LfS
@cindex compatibility functions for LfS

@node Configuration with LfS
@subsection Configuration with LfS
@cindex configuration with LfS

@node LiS Porting
@section LiS Porting
@cindex LiS porting
@cindex porting from LiS

Detailed portability information for porting @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from @cite{LiS}
to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is contained in this package under the @manref{svr3compat(9)} manual
page.  This package also contains specific compatibility functions in the
@file{streams_svr3compat.ko} module.

@menu
* Differences from LiS::
* Commonalities with LiS::
* Compatibility functions for LiS::
* Configuration with LiS::
@end menu

@node Differences from LiS
@subsection Differences from LiS
@cindex differences from LiS

@node Commonalities with LiS
@subsection Commonalities with LiS
@cindex commonalities with LiS

@node Compatibility functions for LiS
@subsection Compatibility functions for LiS
@cindex compatibility functions for LiS

@node Configuration with LiS
@subsection Configuration with LiS
@cindex configuration with LiS

@node MacOT Porting
@section MacOT Porting
@cindex MacOT porting
@cindex porting from MacOT

Detailed portability information for porting @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from @cite{MacOT}
to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is contained in this package under the @manref{svr3compat(9)} manual
page.  This package also contains specific compatibility functions in the
@file{streams_svr3compat.ko} module.

@menu
* Differences from MacOT::
* Commonalities with MacOT::
* Compatibility functions for MacOT::
* Configuration with MacOT::
@end menu

@node Differences from MacOT
@subsection Differences from MacOT
@cindex differences from MacOT

@node Commonalities with MacOT
@subsection Commonalities with MacOT
@cindex commonalities with MacOT

@node Compatibility functions for MacOT
@subsection Compatibility functions for MacOT
@cindex compatibility functions for MacOT

@node Configuration with MacOT
@subsection Configuration with MacOT
@cindex configuration with MacOT

@node OSF/1 Porting
@section OSF/1 Porting
@cindex OSF/1 porting
@cindex porting from OSF/1

Detailed portability information for porting @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from @cite{OSF/1}
to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is contained in this package under the @manref{svr3compat(9)} manual
page.  This package also contains specific compatibility functions in the
@file{streams_svr3compat.ko} module.

@menu
* Differences from OSF/1::
* Commonalities with OSF/1::
* Compatibility functions for OSF/1::
* Configuration with OSF/1::
@end menu

@node Differences from OSF/1
@subsection Differences from OSF/1
@cindex differences from OSF/1

@node Commonalities with OSF/1
@subsection Commonalities with OSF/1
@cindex commonalities with OSF/1

@node Compatibility functions for OSF/1
@subsection Compatibility functions for OSF/1
@cindex compatibility functions for OSF/1

@node Configuration with OSF/1
@subsection Configuration with OSF/1
@cindex configuration with OSF/1

@node Solaris Porting
@section Solaris Porting
@cindex Solaris porting
@cindex porting from Solaris

Detailed portability information for porting @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from @cite{Solaris}
to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is contained in this package under the @manref{svr3compat(9)} manual
page.  This package also contains specific compatibility functions in the
@file{streams_svr3compat.ko} module.

@menu
* Differences from Solaris::
* Commonalities with Solaris::
* Compatibility functions for Solaris::
* Configuration with Solaris::
@end menu

@node Differences from Solaris
@subsection Differences from Solaris
@cindex differences from Solaris

@node Commonalities with Solaris
@subsection Commonalities with Solaris
@cindex commonalities with Solaris

@node Compatibility functions for Solaris
@subsection Compatibility functions for Solaris
@cindex compatibility functions for Solaris

@node Configuration with Solaris
@subsection Configuration with Solaris
@cindex configuration with Solaris

@node SUX Porting
@section SUX Porting
@cindex SUX porting
@cindex porting from SUX

Detailed portability information for porting @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from @cite{SUX}
to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is contained in this package under the @manref{svr3compat(9)} manual
page.  This package also contains specific compatibility functions in the
@file{streams_svr3compat.ko} module.

@menu
* Differences from SUX::
* Commonalities with SUX::
* Compatibility functions for SUX::
* Configuration with SUX::
@end menu

@node Differences from SUX
@subsection Differences from SUX
@cindex differences from SUX

@node Commonalities with SUX
@subsection Commonalities with SUX
@cindex commonalities with SUX

@node Compatibility functions for SUX
@subsection Compatibility functions for SUX
@cindex compatibility functions for SUX

@node Configuration with SUX
@subsection Configuration with SUX
@cindex configuration with SUX

@node UnixWare Porting
@section UnixWare Porting
@cindex UnixWare porting
@cindex porting from UnixWare

Detailed portability information for porting @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from @cite{UnixWare}
to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is contained in this package under the @manref{svr3compat(9)} manual
page.  This package also contains specific compatibility functions in the
@file{streams_svr3compat.ko} module.

@menu
* Differences from UnixWare::
* Commonalities with UnixWare::
* Compatibility functions for UnixWare::
* Configuration with UnixWare::
@end menu

@node Differences from UnixWare
@subsection Differences from UnixWare
@cindex differences from UnixWare

@node Commonalities with UnixWare
@subsection Commonalities with UnixWare
@cindex commonalities with UnixWare

@node Compatibility functions for UnixWare
@subsection Compatibility functions for UnixWare
@cindex compatibility functions for UnixWare

@node Configuration with UnixWare
@subsection Configuration with UnixWare
@cindex configuration with UnixWare

@node UXP Porting
@section UXP Porting
@cindex UXP porting
@cindex porting from UXP

Detailed portability information for porting @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers from @cite{UXP}
to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is contained in this package under the @manref{svr3compat(9)} manual
page.  This package also contains specific compatibility functions in the
@file{streams_svr3compat.ko} module.

@menu
* Differences from UXP::
* Commonalities with UXP::
* Compatibility functions for UXP::
* Configuration with UXP::
@end menu

@node Differences from UXP
@subsection Differences from UXP
@cindex differences from UXP

@node Commonalities with UXP
@subsection Commonalities with UXP
@cindex commonalities with UXP

@node Compatibility functions for UXP
@subsection Compatibility functions for UXP
@cindex compatibility functions for UXP

@node Configuration with UXP
@subsection Configuration with UXP
@cindex configuration with UXP

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Conformance
@chapter Conformance
@cindex conformance

@menu
* STREAMS Compatibility::
@end menu

@node STREAMS Compatibility
@section STREAMS Compatibility
@cindex compatibility

@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} is designed to be as compatible as possible with as wide a range of
@dfn{STREAMS} implementations as possible.  On top of this base compatibility, the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides compatible @dfn{STREAMS} utility, DDI/DKI and
configuration functions specific to a particular @dfn{STREAMS} implementation.@footnote{Although the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package has, in the past, built and installed over @cite{LiS}, because
@cite{LiS} lacked the base compatibility offered by @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}, the compatibility
offered by this package in conjunction with @cite{LiS} was simple functional declaration
compatibility only.}

@menu
* SVR 3.2 Compatibility::
* SVR 4.2 Compatibility::
* MPS Compatibility::
* AIX Compatibility::
* HP-UX Compatibility::
* IRIX Compatibility::
* LfS Compatibility::
* LiS Compatibility::
* MacOT Compatibility::
* OSF/1 Compatibility::
* Solaris Compatibility::
* SUX Compatibility::
* UnixWare Compatibility::
* UXP Compatibility::
@end menu

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of compatibility with other @dfn{STREAMS}
implementation as follows:

@table @cite
@item --- SVR 4.2 ES/MP
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{SVR 4.2 ES/MP}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{SVR 4.2 Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@item --- AIX 5L Version 5.1
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{AIX 5L Version 5.1}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{AIX Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@item --- HP-UX 11.0i v2
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{HP-UX 11.0i v2}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{HP-UX Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@item --- OSF/1 1.2/Digital UNIX/True 64
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{OSF/1 1.2/Digital UNIX}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{OSF/1 Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@item --- UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8)
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8)}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{UnixWare Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@item --- Solaris 9/SunOS 5.9
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{Solaris 9/SunOS 5.9}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{Solaris Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@item --- SUPER-UX
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{SUPER-UX}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{SUX Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@item --- UXP/V
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{UXP/V}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{UXP Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@item --- LiS-2.16.18
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides some degree of operational compatibility with
@cite{LiS 2.16}
to ease portability and common comprehension,
@pxref{LiS Compatibility, , , SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.
@end table

For additional details,
@pxref{Top, , About This Manual, SPG, STREAMS Programmer's Guide}.

@node SVR 3.2 Compatibility
@subsection SVR 3.2 Compatibility
@cindex SVR 3.2 compatibility
@cindex compatibility SVR 3.2

@menu
* UNIX System V Release 3.2 Functions::
@end menu

Almost all of the @cite{SVR 3.2} functions have been continued into @cite{SVR 4}, with the exception
of some backward compatibility functions.  These functions are implemented in the @cite{UNIX System
V Release 3.2 Compatibility Module}, @file{streams_svr3compat.ko}.  There are implemented in a
separate module, because it is very unlikely that they will be used.  This module can be suppressed
at configuration time.

@node UNIX System V Release 3.2 Functions
@subsubsection UNIX System V Release 3.2 Functions

Following are the @cite{UNIX System V Release 3.2 STREAMS} functions and their documented support in
the various implementation with which this package is compatible.  The @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}
package implements many of these function in the core @file{streams.ko} kernel module.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.20 0.80
@item @manpage{cmpdev(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{emajor(9)} @tab -- get the external major number from a device number
@item @manpage{eminor(9)} @tab -- get the external minor number from a device number
@item @manpage{etoimajor(9)} @tab -- convert an external major number to an internal one
@item @manpage{expdev(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{itoemajor(9)} @tab -- convert an internal major number to an external one
@item @manpage{major(9)} @tab -- get the major number from a device number
@item @manpage{makedev(9)} @tab -- make a device number from a major and minor number
@item @manpage{minor(9)} @tab -- get the minor number from a device number
@end multitable

@subsubheading Notes:
@itemize --
@item Only @cite{Solaris} and @cite{UXP/V} implement the @manpage{cmpdev(9)} and @manpage{expdev(9)}
functions.

@item The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package does not support
@manpage{cmpdev(9)},
@manpage{expdev(9)},
@manpage{major(9)},
@manpage{minor(9)} or
@manpage{makedev(9)}
functions.
The
@manpage{emajor(9)},
@manpage{eminor(9)},
@manpage{etoimajor(9)} and
@manpage{itoemajor(9)}
functions are implemented as part of the @cite{UNIX System V Release 3.2 Compatibiltiy Module},
@file{streams_svr3compat.ko}.

@item For specific compatibility notes, see the individual manual pages for these functions.
@end itemize

@node SVR 4.2 Compatibility
@subsection SVR 4.2 Compatibility
@cindex SVR 4.2 compatibility
@cindex compatibility SVR 4.2

@menu
* UNIX System V Release 4 STREAMS Functions::
* UNIX System V Release 4 MP STREAMS Functions::
* UNIX System V Release 4.0 DDI/DKI Functions::
* UNIX System V Release 4.0 MP DDI/DKI Functions::
* UNIX System V Release 4.2 DDI/DKI Functions::
* UNIX System V Release 4.2 MP DDI/DKI Functions::
@end menu

@node UNIX System V Release 4 STREAMS Functions::
@subsubsection UNIX System V Release 4 STREAMS Functions::

Following are the @cite{UNIX System V Release 4.0 STREAMS} functions and their documented support in
the various implementations with which this package is compatible.  The @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}
package implements all of these functions in the core @file{streams.ko} kernel module.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.20 0.80
@item @manpage{adjmsg(9)} @tab -- trim a STREAMS message block.
@item @manpage{allocb(9)} @tab -- allocate a STREAMS message block.
@item @manpage{backq(9)} @tab -- find the previous STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{bcanput(9)} @tab -- test a STREAMS queue for band flow control.
@item @manpage{bufcall(9)} @tab -- create a buffer callback.
@item @manpage{canenable(9)} @tab -- check if a queue can be enabled by @manpage{putq(9)}.
@item @manpage{canput(9)} @tab -- test a STREAMS queue for flow control.
@item @manpage{copyb(9)} @tab -- copy a STREAMS message block.
@item @manpage{copymsg(9)} @tab -- copy a STREAMS message block chain.
@item @manpage{datamsg(9)} @tab -- test if a STREAMS message block is a data message.
@item @manpage{dupb(9)} @tab -- duplicate a STREAMS message block.
@item @manpage{dupmsg(9)} @tab -- duplicate a STREAMS message block chain.
@item @manpage{enableok(9)} @tab -- permit STREAMS queue enabling with @manpage{putq(9)}.
@item @manpage{esballoc(9)} @tab -- allocate a STREAMS message block with external buffer.
@item @manpage{esbbcall(9)} @tab -- create an external buffer callback.
@item @manpage{flushband(9)} @tab -- flush a STREAMS queue band.
@item @manpage{flushq(9)} @tab -- flush a STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{freeb(9)} @tab -- free a STREAMS message block.
@item @manpage{freemsg(9)} @tab -- free a STREAMS message block chain.
@item @manpage{getadmin(9)} @tab -- get a STREAMS module administrative function pointer.
@item @manpage{getmid(9)} @tab -- get a STREAMS module id.
@item @manpage{getq(9)} @tab -- get a message from a STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{insq(9)} @tab -- insert a message into a STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{linkb(9)} @tab -- chain a STREAMS message block onto another.
@item @manpage{msgdsize(9)} @tab -- calculate data size of a STREAMS message chain.
@item @manpage{noenable(9)} @tab -- prohibit STREAMS queue enabling on @manpage{putq(9)}.
@item @manpage{OTHERQ(9)} @tab -- find the other STREAMS queue in a queue pair.
@item @manpage{pullupmsg(9)} @tab -- pull up a STREAMS message chain into a single message block.
@item @manpage{putbq(9)} @tab -- put a STREAMS message back on a queue.
@item @manpage{putctl1(9)} @tab -- put a 1 byte control message to a STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{putctl(9)} @tab -- put a control message to a STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{putnext(9)} @tab -- pass a message to the next STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{putq(9)} @tab -- put a message on a STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{qenable(9)} @tab -- enable a STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{qreply(9)} @tab -- reply with a message to a STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{qsize(9)} @tab -- count the messages on a STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{RD(9)} @tab -- find the read queue of a STREAMS queue pair.
@item @manpage{rmvb(9)} @tab -- remove a message block from a STREAMS message chain.
@item @manpage{rmvq(9)} @tab -- remove a message from a STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{SAMESTR(9)} @tab -- test if STREAMS queues belong to the same stream.
@item @manpage{splstr(9)} @tab -- set software priority level for STREAMS.
@item @manpage{strlog(9)} @tab -- log to the STREAMS logger.
@item @manpage{strqget(9)} @tab -- get attributes of the STREAMS stream head.
@item @manpage{strqset(9)} @tab -- set attributes of the STREAMS stream head.
@item @manpage{testb(9)} @tab -- test if a STREAMS message block can be allocated.
@item @manpage{unbufcall(9)} @tab -- cancel a STREAMS buffer callback.
@item @manpage{unlinkb(9)} @tab -- remove a message block from a STREAMS message chain.
@item @manpage{WR(9)} @tab -- find the write queue of a STREAMS queue pair.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Notes:

@itemize --
@item @manpage{canenable(9)} is really an @cite{SVR 3.2} compatibility function that should not be
used with @cite{SVR 4} @dfn{STREAMS} programs.

@item For the most part, the @cite{UNIX System V Release 4.0 STREAMS} functions are universally
implemented.  Exceptions to this include @manpage{backq(9)}, which appears to be an oversight on the
part of @cite{SUPER-UX} documentation; @manpage{esbbcall(9)}, that can be emulated by calling
@manpage{bufcall(9)} with a size of zero; @manpage{getadmin(9)}, @manpage{getmid(9)} and
@manpage{strlog(9)}, which seems to be more of a @cite{Solaris} and @cite{LiS} problem;
@manpage{SAMESTR(9)}, which is only useful on systems with @dfn{STREAMS} support for pipes and
FIFOs.

@item Because all of these functions are supported by the core @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} package,
and all but @manpage{getadmin(9)}, @manpage{getmid(9)} and @manpage{strlog(9)} are supported by the
core @cite{Linux STREAMS (LiS)} package, these functions are not provided in the @cite{SVR 4.2
Compatibility Module}, @file{streams_svr4compat.ko}.  The three functions missing from @cite{LiS}
are implemented in the @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS Compatibility Module}, @file{streams_lfscompat.ko},
that is only built and installed against @cite{LiS}.

@item @cite{LiS} always misses what @cite{Solaris} misses.  That is probably not a coincidence.

@item For specific compatibility notes, see the individual manual pages for these functions.
@end itemize

@node UNIX System V Release 4 MP STREAMS Functions
@subsubsection UNIX System V Release 4 MP STREAMS Functions

@cite{UNIX System V Release 4.0 Multiprocessor (MP) STREAMS} functions and their documented support
in the various implementations with which this package is compatible.  @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}
implements most of these functions in the core @file{streams.ko} kernel module.  The
@manpage{MPSTR_QLOCK(9)}, @manpage{MPSTR_QRELE(9)}, @manpage{MPSTR_STPLOCK(9)} and
@manpage{MPSTR_STPRELE(9)} locking functions are part of the @cite{SVR 4.2 MP} compatibility module,
@file{streams_svr4compat.ko} because they only have documented support in @cite{UnixWare}.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.30 0.70
@item @manpage{bcanputnext(9)} @tab -- test band flow control from the next STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{canputnext(9)} @tab -- test flow control from the next STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{freezestr(9)} @tab -- acquire exclusive access to a STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{msgpullup(9)} @tab -- pull up bytes in a message into a new message block.
@item @manpage{pcmsg(9)} @tab -- test a message type for priority.
@item @manpage{put(9)} @tab -- put a message on a STREAMS queue (invoking its put procedure).
@item @manpage{putnextctl1(9)} @tab -- put a 1 byte control message to the next STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{putnextctl(9)} @tab -- put a control message to the next STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{qprocsoff(9)} @tab -- disable STREAMS queue procedures.
@item @manpage{qprocson(9)} @tab -- enable STREAMS queue procedures.
@item @manpage{unfreezestr(9)} @tab -- release exclusive access from a STREAMS queue.
@item @manpage{MPSTR_QLOCK(9)} @tab -- lock a STREAMS queue for exclusive access.
@item @manpage{MPSTR_QRELE(9)} @tab -- unlock a STREAMS queue from exclusive access.
@item @manpage{MPSTR_STPLOCK(9)} @tab -- lock a STREAMS stream head for exclusive access.
@item @manpage{MPSTR_STPRELE(9)} @tab -- unlock a STREAMS stream head from exclusive access.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Notes:

@itemize --

@item Although they are @dfn{STREAMS} functions, no implementation documentation other than
@cite{UnixWare} mentions the @manpage{MPSTR_QLOCK(9)}, @manpage{MPSTR_QRELE(9)},
@manpage{MPSTR_STPLOCK(9)} and @manpage{MPSTR_STPRELE(9)} functions, so they are placed in the
@cite{SVR 4.2 MP} compatibility module, @file{streams_svr4compat}.

@item The @manpage{pcmsg(9)} function seems to have been missed by a number of implementations.

@item @cite{AIX}, @cite{OSF/1} and @cite{UXP/V} do not document any of these functions, which is
bad: these are the MP functions for @dfn{STREAMS}.

@item @cite{LiS} did not have anything resembling a @manpage{qprocson(9)} or @manpage{qprocsoff(9)}
implementation until recently (2.18.0).  @cite{LiS} also did not have any @manpage{freezestr(9)} or
@manpage{unfreezestr(9)} implementation until recently (2.18.0).  Neither implementations are fully
functional or in accordance with @dfn{STREAMS} documentation, making them almost unusable.

@item @cite{LiS} always misses what @cite{Solaris} misses.  That is probably not a coincidence.

@end itemize

@node UNIX System V Release 4.0 DDI/DKI Functions
@subsubsection UNIX System V Release 4.0 DDI/DKI Functions

@multitable @columnfractions 0.30 0.70
@item @manpage{ASSERT(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{bcopy(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{biodone(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{biowait(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{bp_mapin(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{bp_mapout(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{brelse(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{btop(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{btopr(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{bzero(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{clrbuf(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{cmn_err(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{copyin(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{copyout(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{delay(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{dma_disable(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{dma_enable(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{dma_free_buf(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{dma_free_cb(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{dma_get_best_mode(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{dma_get_buf(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{dma_get_cb(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{dma_pageio(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{dma_prog(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{dma_stop(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{dma_swsetup(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{dma_swstart(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{drv_getparm(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{drv_hztousec(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{drv_priv(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{drv_setparm(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{drv_usectohz(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{drv_usecwait(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{freerbuf(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{geteblk(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{getemajor(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{geteminor(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{geterror(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{getmajor(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{getminor(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{getrbuf(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{hat_getkpfnum(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{hat_getppfnum(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{inb(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{inl(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{inw(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{kmem_alloc(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{kmem_fast_alloc(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{kmem_free(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{kmem_zalloc(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{makedevice(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{max(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{min(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{ngeteblk(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{outb(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{outl(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{outw(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{page_numtopp(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{page_pptonum(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{physiock(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{physmap(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{physmap_free(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{pollwakeup(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{pptophys(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{psignal(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{ptob(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{rdam_filter(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{repinsb(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{repinsd(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{repinsw(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{repoutsb(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{repoutsd(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{repoutsw(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{rmalloc(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{rmfree(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{rmsetwant(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{sleep(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{spl0(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{spl1(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{spl2(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{spl3(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{spl4(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{spl5(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{spl6(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{spl7(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{spl(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{splbase(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{spldisk(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{splhi(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{spltimeout(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{spltty(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{splx(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{timeout(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{uiomove(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{untimeout(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{ureadc(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{useracc(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{uwritec(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{vtop(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{wakeup(9)} @tab --
@end multitable

@subsubheading Notes:
@itemize --
@item For specific compatibility notes, see the individual manual pages for these functions.
@end itemize

@node UNIX System V Release 4.0 MP DDI/DKI Functions
@subsubsection UNIX System V Release 4.0 MP DDI/DKI Functions

@multitable @columnfractions 0.30 0.70
@item @manpage{dtimeout(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{itimeout(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{rmallocmap(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{rmalloc_wait(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{rmfreemap(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{bioerror(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{getnextpg(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{kvtoppid(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{phalloc(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{phfree(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{phystoppid(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{proc_ref(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{proc_signal(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{proc_unref(9)} @tab --
@end multitable

@subsubheading Notes:
@itemize --
@item For specific compatibility notes, see the individual manual pages for these functions.
@end itemize

@node UNIX System V Release 4.2 DDI/DKI Functions
@subsubsection UNIX System V Release 4.2 DDI/DKI Functions

@multitable @columnfractions 0.30 0.70
@item @manpage{drv_gethardware(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{mod_drvattach(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{mod_drvdetach(9)} @tab --
@end multitable

@subsubheading Notes:
@itemize --
@item For specific compatibility notes, see the individual manual pages for these functions.
@end itemize

@node UNIX System V Release 4.2 MP DDI/DKI Functions
@subsubsection UNIX System V Release 4.2 MP DDI/DKI Functions

@multitable @columnfractions 0.30 0.70
@item @manpage{bcb_alloc(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{bcb_free(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{bcmp(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{buf_breakup(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{cm_addval(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{cm_AT_putconf(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{cm_delval(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{cm_devconfig_size(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{cm_getbrdkey(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{cm_getnbrd(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{cm_getval(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{cm_getversion(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{cm_intr_attach(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{cm_intr_detach(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{cm_read_devconfig(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{cm_write_devconfig(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{dma_cascade(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{dma_physreq(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{drv_mmap(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{drv_munmap(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{getpl(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{iobitmapctl(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{kmem_alloc_physcontig(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{kmem_free_physcontig(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{KS_HOLDLOCKS(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{LOCK(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{LOCK_ALLOC(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{LOCK_DEALLOC(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{LOCK_OWNED(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{met_ds_alloc_stats(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{met_ds_dealloc_stats(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{met_ds_dequeued(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{met_ds_hist_stats(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{met_ds_iodone(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{met_ds_queued(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{ovbcopy(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{physreq_alloc(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{physreq_free(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{physreq_prep(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{proc_valid(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{RW_ALLOC(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{RW_DEALLOC(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{RW_RDLOCK(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{RW_TRYRDLOCK(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{RW_TRYWRLOCK(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{RW_UNLOCK(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{RW_WRLOCK(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{SLEEP_ALLOC(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{SLEEP_DEALLOC(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{SLEEP_LOCK(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{SLEEP_LOCKAVAIL(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{SLEEP_LOCKOWNED(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{SLEEP_LOCK_SIG(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{SLEEP_TRYLOCK(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{SLEEP_UNLOCK(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{strcat(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{strcmp(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{strcpy(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{strlen(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{strncat(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{strncmp(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{strncpy(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{SV_ALLOC(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{SV_BROADCAST(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{SV_DEALLOC(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{SV_SIGNAL(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{SV_WAIT(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{SV_WAIT_SIG(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{TRYLOCK(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{UNLOCK(9)} @tab --
@end multitable

@subsubheading Notes:
@itemize --
@item For specific compatibility notes, see the individual manual pages for these functions.
@end itemize

@node MPS Compatibility
@subsection MPS Compatibility
@cindex MPS compatibility
@cindex compatibility MPS

@menu
* Mentat Portable Streams (MPS) Utility Functions::
@end menu

@node Mentat Portable Streams (MPS) Utility Functions
@subsubsection Mentat Portable Streams (MPS) Utility Functions

The @cite{Mentat Portable Streams (MPS)} utility functions are important because they exist on many
@cite{UNIX} systems.  @cite{AIX}, @cite{HP-UX}, @cite{OSF/1.2} and @cite{Mac OpenTransport} are
based on @cite{MPS}.  Almost all variants use the @cite{Mentat} TCP/IP implementations, and
therefore have implementations of many of these functions internally if not exposed.  @cite{AIX},
@cite{OSF/1.2} and especially @cite{Mac OpenTransport} expose and document most (if not all) of
these functions.   The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package supports all of these
functions.@footnote{Lately the @cite{OpenSS7 Project} has moved away from using OpenSS7 defined
helper functions and move toward using the MPS functions instead.  Many of the OpenSS7 utilities
predate the compatibility modules and were developed in ignorance of the existing helper functions
defined by Mentat and Sun.  As such, most OpenSS7 communications protocol stacks require this module
to be present on the system.}

@multitable @columnfractions 0.30 0.70
@item @manpage{mi_alloc(9)} @tab -- allocate and free kernel memory without later regard to size.
@item @manpage{mi_allocq(9)} @tab -- @manpage{allocq(9)} replacement.
@item @manpage{mi_alloc_sleep(9)} @tab -- @manpage{kmem_alloc(9)} replacement.
@item @manpage{mi_attach(9)} @tab -- associate instance data with a @dfn{STREAMS} queue.
@item @manpage{mi_bcmp(9)} @tab -- compare two binary memory extents.
@item @manpage{mi_bufcall(9)} @tab -- reliable alternative to @manpage{bufcall(9)}.
@item @manpage{mi_close_comm(9)} @tab -- @dfn{STREAMS} common minor device close utility.
@item @manpage{mi_close_detached(9)} @tab -- release instance data from the @dfn{STREAMS} queue and perform close cleanup.
@item @manpage{mi_close_free(9)} @tab -- free a @dfn{STREAMS} driver or module instance from a Stream.
@item @manpage{mi_close_unlink(9)} @tab -- unlink a @dfn{STREAMS} driver or module instance from a Stream.
@item @manpage{mi_copy_done(9)} @tab -- @manpage{ioctl(2s)} complete.
@item @manpage{mi_copyin(9)} @tab -- copy data from a user buffer.
@item @manpage{mi_copyin_n(9)} @tab -- copy data from a user buffer.
@item @manpage{mi_copyout(9)} @tab -- copy data from a user buffer.
@item @manpage{mi_copyout_alloc(9)} @tab -- allocate a buffer to be copied out using @manpage{mi_copyout(9)}.
@item @manpage{mi_copy_set_rval(9)} @tab -- set return value for input-output control.
@item @manpage{mi_copy_state(9)} @tab -- current state of the input-output control process.
@item @manpage{mi_detach(9)} @tab -- disassociate instance data from the @dfn{STREAMS} queue.
@item @manpage{mi_first_dev_ptr(9)} @tab -- obtain first device instance pointer.
@item @manpage{mi_first_ptr(9)} @tab -- obtain first instance pointer.
@item @manpage{mi_free(9)} @tab -- @manpage{kmem_free(9)} replacement.
@item @manpage{mi_freeq(9)} @tab -- @manpage{freeq(9)} replacement.
@item @manpage{mi_mpprintf(9)} @tab -- print a formatted string to a message buffer.
@item @manpage{mi_mpprintf_nr(9)} @tab -- continue to print a formatted string to a message buffer.
@item @manpage{mi_next_dev_ptr(9)} @tab -- obtain next device instance pointer.
@item @manpage{mi_next_ptr(9)} @tab -- @dfn{STREAMS} minor device list traversal.
@item @manpage{mi_offset_param(9)} @tab -- obtain parameter location within @dfn{STREAMS} message block.
@item @manpage{mi_offset_paramc(9)} @tab -- obtain parameter location within @dfn{STREAMS} message block chain.
@item @manpage{mi_open_alloc(9)} @tab -- allocate a @dfn{STREAMS} driver or module instance.
@item @manpage{mi_open_alloc_sleep(9)} @tab -- allocate a @dfn{STREAMS} driver or module instance (may sleep).
@item @manpage{mi_open_comm(9)} @tab -- @dfn{STREAMS} common minor device open utility.
@item @manpage{mi_open_detached(9)} @tab -- @dfn{STREAMS} create detached instance data.
@item @manpage{mi_open_link(9)} @tab -- link a @dfn{STREAMS} driver or module instance on open.
@item @manpage{mi_prev_ptr(9)} @tab -- @dfn{STREAMS} minor device list traversal.
@item @manpage{mi_reallocb(9)} @tab -- reallocate a @dfn{STREAMS} message block.
@item @manpage{mi_reuse_proto(9)} @tab -- reuse a @dfn{STREAMS} protocol message block.
@item @manpage{mi_set_sth_copyopt(9)} @tab -- set the @dfn{STREAMS} Stream head copy options.
@item @manpage{mi_set_sth_hiwat(9)} @tab -- set the @dfn{STREAMS} Stream head high water mark.
@item @manpage{mi_set_sth_lowat(9)} @tab -- set the @dfn{STREAMS} Stream head low water mark.
@item @manpage{mi_set_sth_maxblk(9)} @tab -- set the @dfn{STREAMS} Stream head maximum block size.
@item @manpage{mi_set_sth_wroff(9)} @tab -- set the @dfn{STREAMS} Stream head write offset.
@item @manpage{mi_sprintf(9)} @tab -- @manpage{sprintf(3)} replacement.
@item @manpage{mi_sprintf_putc(9)} @tab -- put a character in a sprintf buffer.
@item @manpage{mi_strcmp(9)} @tab -- @manpage{strcmp(3)} replacement.
@item @manpage{mi_strlen(9)} @tab -- @manpage{strlen(3)} replacement.
@item @manpage{mi_strlog(9)} @tab -- @manpage{strlog(9)} replacement.
@item @manpage{mi_strol(9)} @tab -- @manpage{strtol(3)} replacement.
@item @manpage{mi_timer(9)} @tab -- process a @dfn{STREAMS} timer.
@item @manpage{mi_timer_alloc(9)} @tab -- allocate a @dfn{STREAMS} timer.
@item @manpage{mi_timer_cancel(9)} @tab -- cancel a @dfn{STREAMS} timer.
@item @manpage{mi_timer_free(9)} @tab -- free a @dfn{STREAMS} timer.
@item @manpage{mi_timer_move(9)} @tab -- move a @dfn{STREAMS} timer.
@item @manpage{mi_timer_q_switch(9)} @tab -- switch queues for a @dfn{STREAMS} timer.
@item @manpage{mi_timer_stop(9)} @tab -- stop a @dfn{STREAMS} timer.
@item @manpage{mi_timer_valid(9)} @tab -- check a @dfn{STREAMS} timer.
@item @manpage{mi_zalloc(9)} @tab -- @manpage{kmem_zalloc(9)} replacement.
@item @manpage{mi_zalloc_sleep(9)} @tab -- @manpage{kmem_zalloc(9)} replacement.
@item @manpage{mps_become_writer(9)} @tab -- @dfn{STREAMS} mutex upgrade.
@item @manpage{mps_intr_disable(9)} @tab -- disable interrupts.
@item @manpage{mps_intr_enable(9)} @tab -- enable interrupts.
@end multitable

@subsubheading Notes:

@itemize --
@item @cite{Mac OpenTransport} documents almost all of these functions.  The internal
implementations of some @dfn{UNIX} variants differ from the @cite{Mac OpenTransport} documentation
in name and prototype.

@item For the functions that are exposed by various implementations and their exact names and
prototypes, see the individual variant sections.

@item For specific compatibility notes, see the individual manual pages for these functions.
@end itemize

@node AIX Compatibility
@subsection AIX Compatibility
@cindex AIX compatibility
@cindex compatibility AIX

@menu
* AIX 5L Version 5.1 Portable STREAMS Environment (PSE) STREAMS Functions::
@end menu

@node AIX 5L Version 5.1 Portable STREAMS Environment (PSE) STREAMS Functions
@subsubsection AIX 5L Version 5.1 Portable STREAMS Environment (PSE) STREAMS Functions

@multitable @columnfractions 0.30 0.70
@item @manpage{mi_bufcall(9)} @tab -- reliable alternative to @manpage{bufcall(9)}.
@item @manpage{mi_close_comm(9)} @tab -- @dfn{STREAMS} common minor device close utility.
@item @manpage{mi_next_ptr(9)} @tab -- @dfn{STREAMS} minor device list traversal.
@item @manpage{mi_open_comm(9)} @tab -- @dfn{STREAMS} common minor device open utility.
@item @manpage{putctl2(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{splstr(9)} @tab -- set software priority level for STREAMS.
@item @manpage{splx(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{str_install(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{unweldq(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{wantio(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{wantmsg(9)} @tab --
@item @manpage{weldq(9)} @tab --
@end multitable

@subsubheading Notes:
@itemize --
@item For specific compatibility notes, see the individual manual pages for these functions.
@end itemize

@node HP-UX Compatibility
@subsection HP-UX Compatibility
@cindex HP-UX compatibility
@cindex compatibility HP-UX

@node IRIX Compatibility
@subsection IRIX Compatibility
@cindex IRIX compatibility
@cindex compatibility IRIX

@node LfS Compatibility
@subsection LfS Compatibility
@cindex LfS compatibility
@cindex compatibility LfS

@node LiS Compatibility
@subsection LiS Compatibility
@cindex LiS compatibility
@cindex compatibility LiS

@node MacOT Compatibility
@subsection MacOT Compatibility
@cindex MacOT compatibility
@cindex compatibility MacOT

@node OSF/1 Compatibility
@subsection OSF/1 Compatibility
@cindex OSF/1 compatibility
@cindex compatibility OSF/1

@node Solaris Compatibility
@subsection Solaris Compatibility
@cindex Solaris compatibility
@cindex compatibility Solaris

@node SUX Compatibility
@subsection SUX Compatibility
@cindex SUX compatibility
@cindex compatibility SUX

@node UnixWare Compatibility
@subsection UnixWare Compatibility
@cindex UnixWare compatibility
@cindex compatibility UnixWare

@node UXP Compatibility
@subsection UXP Compatibility
@cindex UXP compatibility
@cindex compatibility UXP

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Releases
@chapter Releases
@cindex releases

@include releases.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Installation
@chapter Installation
@cindex installation

@include texi/install.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Troubleshooting
@chapter Troubleshooting
@cindex troubleshooting

@include texi/testsuite.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Licenses
@unnumbered Licenses
@cindex licenses

@menu
* GNU Affero General Public License::	The AGPL license
* GNU General Public License::		The GPL license
* GNU Lesser General Public License::	The LGPL license
* GNU Free Documentation License::	The FDL license
@end menu

@page
@include texi/agpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/gpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/lgpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/fdl.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Indices
@unnumbered Indices
@cindex indices

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Concept Index::		Index of Concepts
* Type Index::			Index of Data Types
* Function Index::		Index of Functions and Macros
* Variable Index::		Index of Variables and Constants
* File Index::			Index of Files and Programs
* Option Index::		Index of Configuration Options
* Makefile Target Index::	Index of Makefile Targets
* Author Index::		Index of Authors
* Manual Page Index::		Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Concept Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Concepts
@printindex cp

@page
@node Type Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Data Types
@printindex tp

@page
@node Function Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Functions and Macros
@printindex fn

@page
@node Variable Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Variables and Constants
@printindex vr

@page
@node File Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Files and Programs
@printindex pg

@page
@node Option Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Configuration Options
@printindex op

@page
@node Makefile Target Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Makefile Targets
@printindex mk

@page
@node Author Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Authors
@printindex au

@page
@node Manual Page Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@printindex mp

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye

@c ============================================================================
