@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: todo.texi,v 0.9.2.3 2007/01/03 14:57:18 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/01/03 14:57:18 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

Things to do:

@itemize @minus

@item
Implement the AIX strtune() command.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
I would really really like a set of rmallocmap(), rmalloc(), rmalloc_wait(), rmfree(), rmfreemap()
functions so that drivers could stop using the kmem_cache functions but could acheive similar
effect.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Work in MUTEX_ALLOC(), MUTEX_DESTROY(), MUTEX_LOCK(), MUTEX_MINE(), MUTEX_OWNED(), MUTEX_TRYLOCK(),
MUTEX_UNLOCK() from IRIX into irixcompat.c.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Work in streams_interrupt() and STREAMS_TIMEOUT() from IRIX into irixcompat.c.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Hey, here's an idea for testing Solaris compatibility: take an OpenSolaris source file for a STREAMS
driver and compile and test it under Linux with no (or minimal) source code modifications!

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Write test programs and test suites.  There are really not any test programs or test suites
available for the OpenSS7 STREAMS Compatibility Modules package as of strcompat-0.9.2.2.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Not all compatibility functionality is implemented.  There are a large number of Sun DDI functions
applicable to STREAMS that have not been fully implemented.  Also, the Sun configuration management
mechanism is not yet fully implemented and neither is that for AIX.  Also, there is a large group of
SVR 4.2 compatible functions that are not directly STREAMS related but are part of the DDI/DKI and
should be implemented to provide abstraction from Linux internals as well as the ability to link
binary modules.

@table @emph
@item *moved*
(Note that the ability to link binary modules has been moved to is own @file{strbcm} package.)
@end table

@item
Linking of binary modules is not yet supported.  This is the place (strcompat) where binary modules
should be permitted to be loaded against either Linux STREAMS or Linux Fast-STREAMS, because the
binary compatibility interface modules are defined here.  There is the beginnings of an strconf
script output to generate a C-language wrapper file that will link with a binary object file to
generate a loadable module that could load under Linux STREAMS or Linux Fast-STREAMS.  Note that
there are a bunch of binary compatibility issues with Linux STREAMS in the first place (it cannot
even be binary compatible with user programs written for 32bit architectures running on 64bit
architectures).  For fairly restricted use modules and drivers, a single binary object could run on
both LiS and LfS.

@table @emph
@item *moved*
(Note that the ability to link binary modules has been moved to is own @file{strbcm} package.)
@end table

@item
Documentation.  The documentation is trailing a bit.  I have thousands of manual pages written,
however, some are sparse or incomplete.  Also, the manual and the STREAMS Porting Guide needs a
bunch of work.

@table @emph
@item *todo*
Did a bunch of work on the manual, however, there is still a lot of work on a STREAMS Porting Guide
to be done.
@end table

@end itemize
