@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id$
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c $Log$
@c =========================================================================

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} creates the following kernel modules files in the kernel modules
directory, @file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-}:@footnote{The kernel version
@samp{@value{_kversion}} is just and example.  For the running kernel, @samp{uname -r} is expected.}

@table @file
@item modules.@value{PACKAGE_LCNAME}
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following kernel module files in the kernel modules
directory, @file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:@footnote{The kernel
version @samp{@value{_kversion}} is just and example.  For the running kernel, @samp{uname -r} is
expected.}

@table @file
@item streams_os7compat.ko
@cite{OpenSS7} compatibility module.
@item streams_svr3compat.ko
@cite{SVR 3} compatibility module.
@item streams_svr4compat.ko
@cite{SVR 4.2 MP} compatibility module.
@item streams_mpscompat.ko
@cite{MPS} compatibility module.
@item streams_suncompat.ko
@cite{Solaris} compatibility module.
@item streams_uw7compat.ko
@cite{UnixWare} compatibility module.
@item streams_osfcompat.ko
@cite{OSF/1} compatibility module.
@item streams_aixcompat.ko
@cite{AIX} compatibility module.
@item streams_hpuxcompat.ko
@cite{HP-UX} compatibility module.
@item streams_irixcompat.ko
@cite{IRIX} compatibility module.
@item streams_liscompat.ko
@cite{LiS} compatibility module.
@item streams_maccompat.ko
@cite{Mac OT} compatibility module.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following header files in the system include directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-include/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:

@table @header
@item sys/strcompat/config.h
Contains configuration defines for the @file{strcompat} package.
@item sys/strcompat/version.h
Contains module versions (on 2.4 kernels) for the @file{strcompat} package.
@item sys/os7/allocb.h
Contains declarations of OpenSS7 buffer allocation helper functions.
@item sys/os7/bufpool.h
Contains declarations of OpenSS7 buffer pool helper functions.
@item sys/os7/bufq.h
Contains declarations of OpenSS7 private buffer queue helper functions.
@item sys/os7/compat.h
Contains declarations of OpenSS7 compatibility defines and includes.  This is the only header file
that needs to be included for a @dfn{STREAMS} module or driver that needs to be compatibile with
both @cite{LiS} and @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.
@item sys/os7/debug.h
Contains declarations of OpenSS7 debugging macros.
@item sys/os7/lock.h
Contains declarations of OpenSS7 queue locking helper functions.
@item sys/os7/priv.h
Contains declarations of OpenSS7 queue private structure helper functions.
@item sys/os7/queue.h
Contains declarations of OpenSS7 queue put and service procedure helper functions.
@item sys/os7/timer.h
Contains declarations of OpenSS7 timer helper functions.
@item sys/os7/ddi.h
Contains declarations of OpenSS7 additional helper functions.
@item sys/os7/strconf.h
Contains declarations of OpenSS7 @dfn{STREAMS} configuration helper functions.
@item sys/os7/stream.h
Contains declarations of OpenSS7 @dfn{STREAMS} helper functions.
@item sys/stream.h
Contains a main header file providing @dfn{STREAMS} utility function declarations.  Depending on
defines when including this file, this file may include @file{stream.h} files for specific
implementations.
@item sys/strconf.h
Contains a main header file providing @dfn{STREAMS} configuration function declarations.  Depending
on defines when including this file, this file may include @file{stream.h} files for specific
implementations.
@item sys/ddi.h
Contains a main header file providing @dfn{STREAMS} DDI/DKI function declarations.  Depending on
defines when including this file, this file may include @file{stream.h} files for specific
implementations.
@item sys/aix/stream.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} functions unique to @cite{AIX}.
@item sys/aix/strconf.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} configuration functions unique to @cite{AIX}.
@item sys/aix/ddi.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} DDI/DKI functions unique to @cite{AIX}.
@item sys/hpux/stream.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} functions unique to @cite{HP-UX}.
@item sys/hpux/strconf.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} configuration functions unique to @cite{HP-UX}.
@item sys/hpux/ddi.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} DDI/DKI functions unique to @cite{HP-UX}.
@item sys/irix/stream.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} functions unique to @cite{IRIX}.
@item sys/irix/strconf.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} configuration functions unique to @cite{IRIX}.
@item sys/irix/ddi.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} DDI/DKI functions unique to @cite{IRIX}.
@item sys/lis/stream.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} functions unique to @cite{LiS}.
@item sys/lis/strconf.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} configuration functions unique to @cite{LiS}.
@item sys/lis/ddi.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} DDI/DKI functions unique to @cite{LiS}.
@item sys/mac/stream.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} functions unique to @cite{Mac OT}.
@item sys/mac/strconf.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} configuration functions unique to @cite{Mac OT}.
@item sys/mac/ddi.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} DDI/DKI functions unique to @cite{Mac OT}.
@item sys/mps/stream.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} functions unique to @cite{MPS}.
@item sys/mps/strconf.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} configuration functions unique to @cite{MPS}.
@item sys/mps/ddi.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} DDI/DKI functions unique to @cite{MPS}.
@item sys/osf/stream.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} functions unique to @cite{OSF/1}.
@item sys/osf/strconf.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} configuration functions unique to @cite{OSF/1}.
@item sys/osf/ddi.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} DDI/DKI functions unique to @cite{OSF/1}.
@item sys/sun/stream.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} functions unique to @cite{Solaris}.
@item sys/sun/strconf.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} configuration functions unique to @cite{Solaris}.
@item sys/sun/ddi.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} DDI/DKI functions unique to @cite{Solaris}.
@item sys/sun/strsun.h
Contains specific declarations for @cite{Solaris} helper functions.
@item sys/sunddi.h
Main header file used to include @cite{Solaris} DDI/DKI function declarations.
@item sys/strsun.h
Main header file used to include @cite{Solaris} @cite{Solaris} function declarations.
@item sys/svr3/stream.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} functions unique to @cite{SVR 3}.
@item sys/svr3/strconf.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} configuration functions unique to @cite{SVR 3}.
@item sys/svr3/ddi.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} DDI/DKI functions unique to @cite{SVR 3}.
@item sys/svr4/stream.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} functions unique to @cite{SVR 4.2 MP}.
@item sys/svr4/strconf.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} configuration functions unique to @cite{SVR 4.2 MP}.
@item sys/svr4/ddi.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} DDI/DKI functions unique to @cite{SVR 4.2 MP}.
@item sys/uw7/stream.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} functions unique to @cite{UnixWare}.
@item sys/uw7/strconf.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} configuration functions unique to @cite{UnixWare}.
@item sys/uw7/ddi.h
Contains declarations of @dfn{STREAMS} DDI/DKI functions unique to @cite{UnixWare}.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following test programs in the system libexec directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-libexec/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:@footnote{Note that on some systems,
@file{/usr/libexec} does not exist, and @file{/usr/lib} is used instead.}

@table @file
@item send-pr
@itemx send-pr.config
The @command{send-pr} stand-alone shell script can be used for the automatic generation of problem
reports for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  The @file{send-pr.config} file provides
localized definitions used by the @command{send-pr} program.
For more information on problem reports, @xref{Problem Reports}, and, in particular, @xref{Stand
Alone Problem Reports}.
@item testsuite
@itemx atlocal
The @command{testsuite} stand-alone shell script invokes test cases in the test programs above as
compiled into a comprehensive regression, troubleshooting and validation test suite for the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers.  The @file{atlocal} file provides localized definitions used
by the @command{testsuite} program.
For more information on test suites, @xref{Test Suites}, and, in particular, @xref{Running Test
Suites}.
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following utility programs in the system binary
directory, @file{/@-usr/@-sbin/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod
This utility can be used by init scripts or administrative users to create or remove device nodes in
the @file{/dev} directory for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following user programs in the user binary
directory, @file{/@-usr/@-bin/@-}:

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following static and shared object libraries in the
system library directory, @file{/@-usr/@-lib/@-} (32-bit libraries) and @file{/@-usr/@-lib64/@-}
(64-bit libraries):

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following internationalization catalogues in
the internationalization directory, @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-locale/}:

@table @file
@item de/LC_MESSAGES/@value{PACKAGE}.mo
@end table
@end ignore

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following init scripts in the system init directory,
@file{/@-etc/@-rc.d/@-init.d/@-} (non-Debian) or @file{/@-etc/@-init.d/@-} (Debian):

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}
This is the name of the system init script on non-Debian based systems.
@item @value{PACKAGE}.sh
This is the name of the system init script on Debian based systems.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following system configuration files in the configuration
directory, @file{/@-etc/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.conf
This file provided configuration information for any system controls affected by the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.
@item modutils/@-@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides module definitions and demand loading aliases for the @file{@value{PACKAGE}}
package.  This file is really only applicable to older 2.4 kernels.
@ignore
@item netconfig.d/@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides the @manpage{netconfig(5)} definitions for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
drivers.
@manpage{netconfig(5)} definitions are used by the @file{strnsl} package and the @file{libxnsl}
library.
@item sock2path.d/@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides the @manpage{sock2path(5)} definitions for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
drivers.
@manpage{sock2path(5)} definitions are used by the @file{strsock} package and the @file{libsocket}
library.
@end ignore
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following system configuration file in the system
configuration directory, @file{/@-etc/@-sysconfig/@-} (non-Debian) or @file{/@-etc/@-default/@-}
(Debian):

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}
This file provides system configuration information used by init scripts for the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.  Some options of init script execution can be controlled by
this file.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following info files in the system info directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-info/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.info
@itemx @value{PACKAGE}.info-1
@itemx @value{PACKAGE}.info-2
These files contain this manual in @cite{GNU info} format.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manpage macros and reference database files in
the system man directory, @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-}:@footnote{Note that macro and reference
databse files are not installed if the package is configured for cooked manpages.}

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.macros
This file contains manual page macro definitions included by the manual pages included in the
package.
@item @value{PACKAGE}.refs
This file contains a reference database referenced by the manual pages included in the package.
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man1/@-}:

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man2/@-}:

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man3/@-}:

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man4/@-}:

@table @file
@end table
@end ignore

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man5/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.5
manual page for the @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(5)} package.
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man7/@-}:

@table @file
@end table
@end ignore

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man8/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod.8
Documentation for the @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}_mknod(8)} utility program.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man9/@-}:

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package installs several hundred manual pages that are too many to
list here.  Following are just the primary manual pages.  Begin with any of these manual pages to
obtain references to the remaining pages.

@table @file
@item man9/os7compat.9
@manref{os7compat(9)}
@item man9/svr3compat.9
@manref{svr3compat(9)}
@item man9/svr4compat.9
@manref{svr4compat(9)}
@item man9/mpscompat.9
@manref{mpscompat(9)}
@item man9/suncompat.9
@manref{suncompat(9)}
@item man9/uw7compat.9
@manref{uw7compat(9)}
@item man9/osfcompat.9
@manref{osfcompat(9)}
@item man9/aixcompat.9
@manref{aixcompat(9)}
@item man9/hpuxcompat.9
@manref{hpuxcompat(9)}
@item man9/irixcompat.9
@manref{irixcompat(9)}
@item man9/liscompat.9
@manref{liscompat(9)}
@item man9/maccompat.9
@manref{maccompat(9)}
@end table

@ignore
@table @file

@item man5/strcompat.5
@manref{strcompat(5)}

@item man8/strcompat_mknod.8
@manref{strcompat_mknod(8)}

@item man9/alloc_proto.9
@manref{alloc_proto(9)}
@item man9/mkiocb.9
@manref{mkiocb(9)}

@item man9/os7compat.9
@manref{os7compat(9)}

@item man9/bufq_append.9
@manref{bufq_append(9)}
@item man9/bufq_dequeue.9
@manref{bufq_dequeue(9)}
@item man9/bufq_dequeue_tail.9
@manref{bufq_dequeue_tail(9)}
@item man9/bufq_freehead.9
@manref{bufq_freehead(9)}
@item man9/bufq_head.9
@manref{bufq_head(9)}
@item man9/bufq_init.9
@manref{bufq_init(9)}
@item man9/bufq_insert.9
@manref{bufq_insert(9)}
@item man9/bufq_length.9
@manref{bufq_length(9)}
@item man9/bufq_lock.9
@manref{bufq_lock(9)}
@item man9/bufq_purge.9
@manref{bufq_purge(9)}
@item man9/bufq_queue.9
@manref{bufq_queue(9)}
@item man9/bufq_queue_head.9
@manref{bufq_queue_head(9)}
@item man9/bufq_resupply.9
@manref{bufq_resupply(9)}
@item man9/bufq_size.9
@manref{bufq_size(9)}
@item man9/bufq_splice_head.9
@manref{bufq_splice_head(9)}
@item man9/bufq_splice_tail.9
@manref{bufq_splice_tail(9)}
@item man9/bufq_supply.9
@manref{bufq_supply(9)}
@item man9/bufq_tail.9
@manref{bufq_tail(9)}
@item man9/bufq_unlink.9
@manref{bufq_unlink(9)}
@item man9/bufq_unlock.9
@manref{bufq_unlock(9)}
@item man9/freechunks.9
@manref{freechunks(9)}
@item man9/ss7_allocb.9
@manref{ss7_allocb(9)}
@item man9/ss7_bufcall.9
@manref{ss7_bufcall(9)}
@item man9/ss7_bufpool_init.9
@manref{ss7_bufpool_init(9)}
@item man9/ss7_bufpool_release.9
@manref{ss7_bufpool_release(9)}
@item man9/ss7_bufpool_reserve.9
@manref{ss7_bufpool_reserve(9)}
@item man9/ss7_bufpool_term.9
@manref{ss7_bufpool_term(9)}
@item man9/ss7_bufsrv.9
@manref{ss7_bufsrv(9)}
@item man9/ss7_copyb.9
@manref{ss7_copyb(9)}
@item man9/ss7_copymsg.9
@manref{ss7_copymsg(9)}
@item man9/ss7_do_timeout.9
@manref{ss7_do_timeout(9)}
@item man9/ss7_dupb.9
@manref{ss7_dupb(9)}
@item man9/ss7_dupmsg.9
@manref{ss7_dupmsg(9)}
@item man9/ss7_esballoc.9
@manref{ss7_esballoc(9)}
@item man9/ss7_esbbcall.9
@manref{ss7_sebbcall(9)}
@item man9/ss7_fast_allocb.9
@manref{ss7_fast_allocb(9)}
@item man9/ss7_fast_freeb.9
@manref{ss7_fast_freeb(9)}
@item man9/ss7_fast_freemsg.9
@manref{ss7_fast_freemsg(9)}
@item man9/ss7_iput.9
@manref{ss7_iput(9)}
@item man9/ss7_isrv.9
@manref{ss7_isrv(9)}
@item man9/ss7_oput.9
@manref{ss7_oput(9)}
@item man9/ss7_osrv.9
@manref{ss7_osrv(9)}
@item man9/ss7_pullupmsg.9
@manref{ss7_pullupmsg(9)}
@item man9/ss7_putq.9
@manref{ss7_putq(9)}
@item man9/ss7_r_flush.9
@manref{ss7_r_flush(9)}
@item man9/ss7_srvq.9
@manref{ss7_srvq(9)}
@item man9/ss7_start_timer.9
@manref{ss7_start_timer(9)}
@item man9/ss7_stop_timer.9
@manref{ss7_stop_timer(9)}
@item man9/ss7_trylockq.9
@manref{ss7_trylockq(9)}
@item man9/ss7_unbufcall.9
@manref{ss7_unbufcall(9)}
@item man9/ss7_unlockq.9
@manref{ss7_unlockq(9)}
@item man9/ss7_w_flush.9
@manref{ss7_w_flush(9)}

@item man9/svr3compat.9
@manref{svr3compat(9)}

@item man9/emajor.9
@manref{emajor(9)}
@item man9/eminor.9
@manref{eminor(9)}

@item man9/svr4compat.9
@manref{svr4compat(9)}

@item man9/dtimeout.9
@manref{dtimeout(9)}
@item man9/etoimajor.9
@manref{etoimajor(9)}
@item man9/getemajor.9
@manref{getemajor(9)}
@item man9/geteminor.9
@manref{geteminor(9)}
@item man9/itimeout.9
@manref{itimeout(9)}
@item man9/itoemajor.9
@manref{itoemajor(9)}
@item man9/LOCK.9
@manref{LOCK(9)}
@item man9/LOCK_ALLOC.9
@manref{LOCK_ALLOC(9)}
@item man9/LOCK_DEALLOC.9
@manref{LOCK_DEALLOC(9)}
@item man9/LOCK_OWNED.9
@manref{LOCK_OWNED(9)}
@item man9/MPSTR_QLOCK.9
@manref{MPSTR_QLOCK(9)}
@item man9/MPSTR_QRELE.9
@manref{MPSTR_QRELE(9)}
@item man9/MPSTR_STPLOCK.9
@manref{MPSTR_STPLOCK(9)}
@item man9/MPSTR_STPRELE.9
@manref{MTPSTR_STPRELE(9)}
@item man9/RW_ALLOC.9
@manref{RW_ALLOC(9)}
@item man9/RW_DEALLOC.9
@manref{RW_DEALLOC(9)}
@item man9/RW_RDLOCK.9
@manref{RW_RDLOCK(9)}
@item man9/RW_TRYRDLOCK.9
@manref{RW_TRYRDLOCK(9)}
@item man9/RW_TRYWRLOCK.9
@manref{RW_TRYWRLOCK(9)}
@item man9/RW_UNLOCK.9
@manref{RW_UNLOCK(9)}
@item man9/RW_WRLOCK.9
@manref{RW_WRLOCK(9)}
@item man9/sleep.9
@manref{sleep(9)}
@item man9/SLEEP_ALLOC.9
@manref{SLEEP_ALLOC(9)}
@item man9/SLEEP_DEALLOC.9
@manref{SLEEP_DEALLOC(9)}
@item man9/SLEEP_LOCK.9
@manref{SLEEP_LOCK(9)}
@item man9/SLEEP_LOCKAVAIL.9
@manref{SLEEP_LOCKAVAIL(9)}
@item man9/SLEEP_LOCKOWNED.9
@manref{SLEEP_LOCKOWNED(9)}
@item man9/SLEEP_LOCK_SIG.9
@manref{SLEEP_LOCK_SIG(9)}
@item man9/SLEEP_TRYLOCK.9
@manref{SLEEP_TRYLOCK(9)}
@item man9/SLEEP_UNLOCK.9
@manref{SLEEP_UNLOCK(9)}
@item man9/spl0.9
@manref{spl0(9)}
@item man9/spl1.9
@manref{spl1(9)}
@item man9/spl2.9
@manref{spl2(9)}
@item man9/spl3.9
@manref{spl3(9)}
@item man9/spl4.9
@manref{spl4(9)}
@item man9/spl5.9
@manref{spl5(9)}
@item man9/spl6.9
@manref{spl6(9)}
@item man9/spl7.9
@manref{spl7(9)}
@item man9/spl.9
@manref{splbase(9)}
@item man9/splbase.9
@manref{spldisk(9)}
@item man9/spldisk.9
@manref{splhi(9)}
@item man9/splhi.9
@manref{splstr(9)}
@item man9/splstr.9
@manref{spltimeout(9)}
@item man9/spltimeout.9
@manref{spltty(9)}
@item man9/spltty.9
@manref{splx(9)}
@item man9/splx.9
@manref{SV_ALLOC(9)}
@item man9/SV_ALLOC.9
@manref{SV_BROADCAST(9)}
@item man9/SV_BROADCAST.9
@manref{SV_DEALLOC(9)}
@item man9/SV_DEALLOC.9
@manref{SV_SIGNAL(9)}
@item man9/SV_SIGNAL.9
@manref{SV_WAIT(9)}
@item man9/SV_WAIT.9
@manref{SV_WAIT_SIG(9)}
@item man9/SV_WAIT_SIG.9
@manref{TRYLOCK(9)}
@item man9/TRYLOCK.9
@manref{UNLOCK(9)}
@item man9/UNLOCK.9
@manref{wakeup(9)}
@item man9/wakeup.9

@manref{mpscompat(9)}
@item man9/mpscompat.9

@manref{mi_alloc(9)}
@item man9/mi_alloc.9
@manref{mi_allocq(9)}
@item man9/mi_allocq.9
@manref{mi_alloc_sleep(9)}
@item man9/mi_alloc_sleep.9
@manref{mi_attach(9)}
@item man9/mi_attach.9
@manref{mi_bcmp(9)}
@item man9/mi_bcmp.9
@manref{mi_bufcall(9)}
@item man9/mi_bufcall.9
@manref{mi_close_comm(9)}
@item man9/mi_close_comm.9
@manref{mi_close_detached(9)}
@item man9/mi_close_detached.9
@manref{mi_close_free(9)}
@item man9/mi_close_free.9
@manref{mi_close_unlink(9)}
@item man9/mi_close_unlink.9
@manref{mi_copy_done(9)}
@item man9/mi_copy_done.9
@manref{mi_copyin(9)}
@item man9/mi_copyin.9
@manref{mi_copyin_n(9)}
@item man9/mi_copyin_n.9
@manref{mi_copyout(9)}
@item man9/mi_copyout.9
@manref{mi_copyout_alloc(9)}
@item man9/mi_copyout_alloc.9
@manref{mi_copy_set_rval(9)}
@item man9/mi_copy_set_rval.9
@manref{mi_copy_state(9)}
@item man9/mi_copy_state.9
@manref{mi_detach(9)}
@item man9/mi_detach.9
@manref{mi_first_dev_ptr(9)}
@item man9/mi_first_dev_ptr.9
@manref{mi_first_ptr(9)}
@item man9/mi_first_ptr.9
@manref{mi_free(9)}
@item man9/mi_free.9
@manref{mi_freeq(9)}
@item man9/mi_freeq.9
@manref{mi_mpprintf(9)}
@item man9/mi_mpprintf.9
@manref{mi_mpprintf_nr(9)}
@item man9/mi_mpprintf_nr.9
@manref{mi_next_dev_ptr(9)}
@item man9/mi_next_dev_ptr.9
@manref{mi_next_ptr(9)}
@item man9/mi_next_ptr.9
@manref{mi_offset_param(9)}
@item man9/mi_offset_param.9
@manref{mi_offset_paramc(9)}
@item man9/mi_offset_paramc.9
@manref{mi_open_alloc(9)}
@item man9/mi_open_alloc.9
@manref{mi_open_alloc_sleep(9)}
@item man9/mi_open_alloc_sleep.9
@manref{mi_open_comm(9)}
@item man9/mi_open_comm.9
@manref{mi_open_detached(9)}
@item man9/mi_open_detached.9
@manref{mi_open_link(9)}
@item man9/mi_open_link.9
@manref{mi_prev_ptr(9)}
@item man9/mi_prev_ptr.9
@manref{mi_reallocb(9)}
@item man9/mi_reallocb.9
@manref{mi_reuse_proto(9)}
@item man9/mi_reuse_proto.9
@manref{mi_set_sth_copyopt(9)}
@item man9/mi_set_sth_copyopt.9
@manref{mi_set_sth_hiwat(9)}
@item man9/mi_set_sth_hiwat.9
@manref{mi_set_sth_lowat(9)}
@item man9/mi_set_sth_lowat.9
@manref{mi_set_sth_maxblk(9)}
@item man9/mi_set_sth_maxblk.9
@manref{mi_set_sth_wroff(9)}
@item man9/mi_set_sth_wroff.9
@manref{mi_sprintf(9)}
@item man9/mi_sprintf.9
@manref{mi_sprintf(9)}
@item man9/mi_strcmp.9
@manref{mi_strcmp(9)}
@item man9/mi_strlen.9
@manref{mi_strlen(9)}
@item man9/mi_strlog.9
@manref{mi_strlog(9)}
@item man9/mi_strtol.9
@manref{mi_strtol(9)}
@item man9/mi_timer.9
@manref{mi_timer(9)}
@item man9/mi_timer_MAC.9
@manref{mi_timer_MAC(9)}
@item man9/mi_timer_SUN.9
@manref{mi_timer_SUN(9)}
@item man9/mi_timer_alloc.9
@manref{mi_timer_alloc(9)}
@item man9/mi_timer_alloc_MAC.9
@manref{mi_timer_alloc_MAC(9)}
@item man9/mi_timer_alloc_SUN.9
@manref{mi_timer_alloc_SUN(9)}
@item man9/mi_timer_cancel.9
@manref{mi_timer_cancel(9)}
@item man9/mi_timer_free.9
@manref{mi_timer_fre(9)}
@item man9/mi_timer_move.9
@manref{mi_timer_move(9)}
@item man9/mi_timer_q_switch.9
@manref{mi_timer_q_switch(9)}
@item man9/mi_timer_stop.9
@manref{mi_timer_stop(9)}
@item man9/mi_timer_valid.9
@manref{mi_timer_valid(9)}
@item man9/mi_zalloc.9
@manref{mi_zalloc(9)}
@item man9/mi_zalloc_sleep.9
@manref{mi_zalloc_sleep(9)}
@item man9/mps_become_writer.9
@manref{mps_become_writer(9)}
@item man9/mps_intr_disable.9
@manref{mps_intr_disable(9)}
@item man9/mps_intr_enable.9
@manref{mps_intr_enable(9)}
@item man9/mi_sprintf_putc.9
@manref{mi_sprintf_putc(9)}

@item man9/suncompat.9
@manref{suncompat(9)}

@item man9/mi_tpi_ack_alloc.9
@manref{mi_tpi_ack_alloc(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_conn_con.9
@manref{mi_tpi_ack_alloc(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_conn_ind.9
@manref{mi_tpi_conn_con(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_conn_req.9
@manref{mi_tpi_conn_ind(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_data_ind.9
@manref{mp_tpi_conn_req(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_data_req.9
@manref{mi_tpi_data_ind(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_discon_ind.9
@manref{mi_tpi_data_req(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_discon_req.9
@manref{mi_tpi_discon_req(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_err_ack_alloc.9
@manref{mi_tpi_err_ack_alloc(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_exdata_ind.9
@manref{mi_tpi_exdata_ind(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_exdata_req.9
@manref{mi_tpi_exdata_req(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_info_req.9
@manref{mi_tpi_info_req(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_ok_ack_alloc.9
@manref{mi_tpi_ok_ack_alloc(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_ordrel_ind.9
@manref{mi_tpi_ordrel_ind(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_ordrel_req.9
@manref{mi_tpi_ordrel_req(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_uderror_ind.9
@manref{mi_tpi_uderror_ind(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_unitdata_ind.9
@manref{mi_tpi_unitdata_ind(9)}
@item man9/mi_tpi_unitdata_req.9
@manref{mi_tpi_unitdata_req(9)}

@item man9/DB_BASE.9
@manref{DB_BASE(9)}
@item man9/DB_LIM.9
@manref{DB_LIM(9)}
@item man9/DB_REF.9
@manref{DB_REF(9)}
@item man9/DB_TYPE.9
@manref{DB_TYPE(9)}

@item man9/ddi_get_cred.9
@manref{ddi_get_cred(9)}
@item man9/ddi_getiminor.9
@manref{ddi_getiminor(9)}
@item man9/ddi_get_lbolt.9
@manref{ddi_get_lbolt(9)}
@item man9/ddi_get_pid.9
@manref{ddi_get_pid(9)}
@item man9/ddi_get_time.9
@manref{ddi_get_time(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_op.9
@manref{ddi_prop_op(9)}
@item man9/ddi_umem_alloc.9
@manref{ddi_umem_alloc(9)}
@item man9/ddi_umem_free.9
@manref{ddi_umem_free(9)}
@item man9/freezestr_SUN.9
@manref{freezestr_SUN(9)}
@item man9/MBLKHEAD.9
@manref{MBLKHEAD(9)}
@item man9/MBLKIN.9
@manref{MBLKIN(9)}
@item man9/MBLKL.9
@manref{MBLKL(9)}
@item man9/MBLKSIZE.9
@manref{MBLKSIZE(9)}
@item man9/MBLKTAIL.9
@manref{MBLKTAIL(9)}
@item man9/mcopyin.9
@manref{mcopyin(9)}
@item man9/mcopymsg.9
@manref{mcopymsg(9)}
@item man9/mcopyout.9
@manref{mcopyout(9)}
@item man9/merror.9
@manref{merror(9)}
@item man9/mexchange.9
@manref{mexchange(9)}
@item man9/mexpandb.9
@manref{mexpandb(9)}
@item man9/mioc2ack.9
@manref{mioc2ack(9)}
@item man9/miocack.9
@manref{miocack(9)}
@item man9/miocnak.9
@manref{miocnak(9)}
@item man9/miocpullup.9
@manref{miocpullup(9)}
@item man9/mod_info.9
@manref{mod_info(9)}
@item man9/mod_install.9
@manref{mod_install(9)}
@item man9/mod_remove.9
@manref{mod_remove(9)}
@item man9/mod_strmops.9
@manref{mod_strmops(9)}
@item man9/nochpoll.9
@manref{nochpoll(9)}
@item man9/nodev.9
@manref{nodev(9)}
@item man9/nulldev.9
@manref{nulldev(9)}
@item man9/OFFSET.9
@manref{OFFSET(9)}
@item man9/qbufcall.9
@manref{qbufcall(9)}
@item man9/qtimeout.9
@manref{qtimeout(9)}
@item man9/queclass.9
@manref{queuclass(9)}
@item man9/qunbufcall.9
@manref{qunbufcall(9)}
@item man9/quntimeout.9
@manref{quntimeout(9)}
@item man9/qwait.9
@manref{qwait(9)}
@item man9/qwait_sig.9
@manref{qwait_sig(9)}
@item man9/qwriter.9
@manref{qwriter(9)}
@item man9/unfreezestr_SUN.9
@manref{unfreezestr(9)}
@item man9/ddi_add_intr.9
@manref{ddi_add_intr(9)}
@item man9/ddi_add_softintr.9
@manref{ddi_add_softintr(9)}
@item man9/ddi_binding_name.9
@manref{ddi_binding_name(9)}
@item man9/ddi_btop.9
@manref{ddi_btop(9)}
@item man9/ddi_btopr.9
@manref{ddi_btopr(9)}
@item man9/ddi_check_acc_handle.9
@manref{ddi_check_acc_handle(9)}
@item man9/ddi_check_dma_handle.9
@manref{ddi_check_dma_handle(9)}
@item man9/ddi_copyin.9
@manref{ddi_copyin(9)}
@item man9/ddi_copyout.9
@manref{ddi_copyout(9)}
@item man9/ddi_create_minor_node.9
@manref{ddi_create_minor_node(9)}
@item man9/ddi_device_copy.9
@manref{ddi_device_copy(9)}
@item man9/ddi_device_zero.9
@manref{ddi_device_zero(9)}
@item man9/ddi_devid_compare.9
@manref{ddi_devid_compare(9)}
@item man9/ddi_devid_free.9
@manref{ddi_devid_free(9)}
@item man9/ddi_devid_init.9
@manref{ddi_devid_init(9)}
@item man9/ddi_devid_register.9
@manref{ddi_devid_register(9)}
@item man9/ddi_devid_sizeof.9
@manref{ddi_devid_sizeof(9)}
@item man9/ddi_devid_str_decode.9
@manref{ddi_devid_str_decode(9)}
@item man9/ddi_devid_str_encode.9
@manref{ddi_devid_str_encond(9)}
@item man9/ddi_devid_str_free.9
@manref{ddi_devid_str_free(9)}
@item man9/ddi_devid_unregister.9
@manref{ddi_devid_unregister(9)}
@item man9/ddi_devid_valid.9
@manref{ddi_devid_valid(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dev_is_needed.9
@manref{dddi_dev_is_needed(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dev_is_sid.9
@manref{ddi_dev_is_sid(9)}
@item man9/ddi_devmap_segmap.9
@manref{ddi_devmap_segmap(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dev_nintrs.9
@manref{ddi_dev_nintrs(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dev_nregs.9
@manref{ddi_dev_nregs(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dev_regsize.9
@manref{ddi_dev_regsize(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dev_report_fault.9
@manref{ddi_dev_report_fault(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_addr_bind_handle.9
@manref{ddi_dma_addr_bind_handle(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_addr_setup.9
@manref{ddi_dma_addr_setup(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_alloc_handle.9
@manref{ddi_dma_alloc_handle(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_buf_bind_handle.9
@manref{ddi_dma_buf_bind_handle(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_buf_setup.9
@manref{ddi_dma_buf_setup(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_burstsizes.9
@manref{ddi_dma_burstsizes(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_coff.9
@manref{ddi_dma_coff(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_curwin.9
@manref{ddi_dma_curwin(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_devalign.9
@manref{ddi_dma_devalign(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dmae_1stparty.9
@manref{ddi_dmae_1stparty(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dmae.9
@manref{ddi_dmae(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dmae_alloc.9
@manref{ddi_dmae_alloc(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dmae_disable.9
@manref{ddi_dmae_disable(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dmae_enable.9
@manref{ddi_dmae_enable(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dmae_getattr.9
@manref{ddi_dmae_getattr(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dmae_getcnt.9
@manref{ddi_dmae_getcnt(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dmae_getlim.9
@manref{ddi_dmae_getlim(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dmae_prog.9
@manref{ddi_dmae_prog(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dmae_release.9
@manref{ddi_dmae_release(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dmae_stop.9
@manref{ddi_dmae_stop(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_free.9
@manref{ddi_dma_free(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_free_handle.9
@manref{ddi_dma_free_handle(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_get_attr.9
@manref{ddi_dma_get_attr(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_getwin.9
@manref{ddi_dma_getwin(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_htoc.9
@manref{ddi_dma_htoc(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_mem_alloc.9
@manref{ddi_dma_mem_alloc(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_mem_free.9
@manref{ddi_dma_mem_free(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_movwin.9
@manref{ddi_dma_movwin(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_nextcookie.9
@manref{ddi_dma_nextcookie(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_nextseg.9
@manref{ddi_dma_nextseg(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_nextwin.9
@manref{ddi_dma_nextwin(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_numwin.9
@manref{ddi_dma_numwin(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_segtocookie.9
@manref{ddi_dma_segtocookie(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_set_sbus64.9
@manref{ddi_dma_set_sbus64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_setup.9
@manref{ddi_dma_setup(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_sync.9
@manref{ddi_dma_sync(9)}
@item man9/ddi_dma_unbind_handle.9
@manref{ddi_dma_unbind_handle(9)}
@item man9/ddi_driver_major.9
@manref{ddi_driver_major(9)}
@item man9/ddi_driver_name.9
@manref{ddi_driver_name(9)}
@item man9/ddi_enter_critical.9
@manref{ddi_enter_critical(9)}
@item man9/ddi_exit_critical.9
@manref{ddi_exit_critical(9)}
@item man9/ddi_ffs.9
@manref{ddi_ffs(9)}
@item man9/ddi_fls.9
@manref{ddi_fls(9)}
@item man9/ddi_get16.9
@manref{ddi_get16(9)}
@item man9/ddi_get32.9
@manref{ddi_get32(9)}
@item man9/ddi_get64.9
@manref{ddi_get64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_get8.9
@manref{ddi_get8(9)}
@item man9/ddi_getb.9
@manref{ddi_getb(9)}
@item man9/ddi_get_devstate.9
@manref{ddi_get_devstate(9)}
@item man9/ddi_get_driver_private.9
@manref{ddi_get_driver_private(9)}
@item man9/ddi_get_iblock_cookie.9
@manref{ddi_get_iblock_cookie(9)}
@item man9/ddi_get_instance.9
@manref{ddi_get_instance(9)}
@item man9/ddi_get_kt_did.9
@manref{ddi_get_kt_did(9)}
@item man9/ddi_getl.9
@manref{ddi_getl(9)}
@item man9/ddi_getll.9
@manref{ddi_getll(9)}
@item man9/ddi_getlongprop.9
@manref{ddi_getlongprop(9)}
@item man9/ddi_getlongprop_buf.9
@manref{ddi_getlongprop_buf(9)}
@item man9/ddi_get_name.9
@manref{ddi_get_name(9)}
@item man9/ddi_get_parent.9
@manref{ddi_get_parent(9)}
@item man9/ddi_getprop.9
@manref{ddi_getprop(9)}
@item man9/ddi_getproplen.9
@manref{ddi_getproplen(9)}
@item man9/ddi_get_soft_iblock_cookie.9
@manref{ddi_get_soft_iblock_cookie(9)}
@item man9/ddi_get_soft_state.9
@manref{ddi_get_soft_state(9)}
@item man9/ddi_getw.9
@manref{ddi_getw(9)}
@item man9/ddi_in_panic.9
@manref{ddi_in_panic(9)}
@item man9/ddi_intr_hilevel.9
@manref{ddi_intr_hilevel(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_get16.9
@manref{ddi_io_get16(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_get32.9
@manref{ddi_io_get32(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_get64.9
@manref{ddi_io_get64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_get8.9
@manref{ddi_io_get8(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_getb.9
@manref{ddi_io_getb(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_getl.9
@manref{ddi_io_getl(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_getw.9
@manref{ddi_io_getw(9)}
@item man9/ddi_iomin.9
@manref{ddi_iomin(9)}
@item man9/ddi_iopb_alloc.9
@manref{ddi_iopb_alloc(9)}
@item man9/ddi_iopb_free.9
@manref{ddi_iopb_free(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_put16.9
@manref{ddi_io_put16(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_put32.9
@manref{ddi_io_put32(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_put64.9
@manref{ddi_io_put64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_put8.9
@manref{ddi_io_put8(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_putb.9
@manref{ddi_io_putb(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_putl.9
@manref{ddi_io_putl(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_putw.9
@manref{ddi_io_putw(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_rep_get16.9
@manref{ddi_io_rep_get16(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_rep_get32.9
@manref{ddi_io_rep_get32(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_rep_get64.9
@manref{ddi_io_rep_get64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_rep_get8.9
@manref{ddi_io_rep_get8(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_rep_getb.9
@manref{ddi_io_rep_getb(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_rep_getl.9
@manref{ddi_io_rep_getl(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_rep_getw.9
@manref{ddi_io_rep_getw(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_rep_put16.9
@manref{ddi_io_rep_put16(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_rep_put32.9
@manref{ddi_io_rep_put32(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_rep_put64.9
@manref{ddi_io_rep_put64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_rep_put8.9
@manref{ddi_io_rep_put8(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_rep_putb.9
@manref{ddi_io_rep_putb(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_rep_putl.9
@manref{ddi_io_rep_putl(9)}
@item man9/ddi_io_rep_putw.9
@manref{ddi_io_rep_putw(9)}
@item man9/ddi_log_sysevent.9
@manref{ddi_log_sysevent(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mapdev.9
@manref{ddi_mapdev(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mapdev_intercept.9
@manref{ddi_mapdev_intercept(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mapdev_nointercept.9
@manref{ddi_mapdev_nointercept(9)}
@item man9/ddi_map_regs.9
@manref{ddi_map_regs(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_alloc.9
@manref{ddi_mem_alloc(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_free.9
@manref{ddi_mem_free(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_get16.9
@manref{ddi_mem_get16(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_get32.9
@manref{ddi_mem_get32(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_get64.9
@manref{ddi_mem_get64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_get8.9
@manref{ddi_mem_get8(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_getb.9
@manref{ddi_mem_getb(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_getl.9
@manref{ddi_mem_getl(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_getll.9
@manref{ddi_mem_getll(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_getw.9
@manref{ddi_mem_getw(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_put16.9
@manref{ddi_mem_put16(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_put32.9
@manref{ddi_mem_put32(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_put64.9
@manref{ddi_mem_put64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_put8.9
@manref{ddi_mem_put8(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_putb.9
@manref{ddi_mem_putb(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_putl.9
@manref{ddi_mem_putl(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_putll.9
@manref{ddi_mem_putll(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_putw.9
@manref{ddi_mem_putw(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_rep_get16.9
@manref{ddi_mem_rep_get16(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_rep_get32.9
@manref{ddi_mem_rep_get32(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_rep_get64.9
@manref{ddi_mem_rep_get64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_rep_get8.9
@manref{ddi_mem_rep_get8(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_rep_getb.9
@manref{ddi_mem_rep_getb(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_rep_getl.9
@manref{ddi_mem_rep_getl(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_rep_getll.9
@manref{ddi_mem_rep_getll(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_rep_getw.9
@manref{ddi_mem_rep_getw(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_rep_put16.9
@manref{ddi_mem_rep_put16(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_rep_put32.9
@manref{ddi_mem_rep_put32(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_rep_put64.9
@manref{ddi_mem_rep_put64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_rep_put8.9
@manref{ddi_mem_rep_put8(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_rep_putb.9
@manref{ddi_mem_rep_putb(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_rep_putl.9
@manref{ddi_mem_rep_putl(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_rep_putll.9
@manref{ddi_mem_rep_putll(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mem_rep_putw.9
@manref{ddi_mem_rep_putw(9)}
@item man9/ddi_mmap_get_model.9
@manref{ddi_mmap_get_model(9)}
@item man9/ddi_model_convert_from.9
@manref{ddi_model_convert_from(9)}
@item man9/ddi_node_name.9
@manref{ddi_node_name(9)}
@item man9/ddi_peek16.9
@manref{ddi_peek16(9)}
@item man9/ddi_peek32.9
@manref{ddi_peek32(9)}
@item man9/ddi_peek64.9
@manref{ddi_peek64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_peek8.9
@manref{ddi_peek8(9)}
@item man9/ddi_peek.9
@manref{ddi_peek(9)}
@item man9/ddi_peekc.9
@manref{ddi_peekc(9)}
@item man9/ddi_peekd.9
@manref{ddi_peekd(9)}
@item man9/ddi_peekl.9
@manref{ddi_peekl(9)}
@item man9/ddi_peeks.9
@manref{ddi_peeks(9)}
@item man9/ddi_poke16.9
@manref{ddi_poke16(9)}
@item man9/ddi_poke32.9
@manref{ddi_poke32(9)}
@item man9/ddi_poke64.9
@manref{ddi_poke64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_poke8.9
@manref{ddi_poke8(9)}
@item man9/ddi_poke.9
@manref{ddi_poke(9)}
@item man9/ddi_pokec.9
@manref{ddi_pokec(9)}
@item man9/ddi_poked.9
@manref{ddi_poked(9)}
@item man9/ddi_pokel.9
@manref{ddi_pokel(9)}
@item man9/ddi_pokes.9
@manref{ddi_pokes(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_create.9
@manref{ddi_prop_create(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_exists.9
@manref{ddi_prop_exists(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_free.9
@manref{ddi_prop_free(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_get_int64.9
@manref{ddi_prop_get_int64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_get_int.9
@manref{ddi_prop_get_int(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_lookup.9
@manref{ddi_prop_lookup(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_lookup_byte_array.9
@manref{ddi_prop_lookup_byte_array(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_lookup_int64_array.9
@manref{ddi_prop_lookup_int64_array(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_lookup_int_array.9
@manref{ddi_prop_lookup_in_array(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_lookup_string.9
@manref{ddi_prop_lookup_string(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_lookup_string_array.9
@manref{ddi_prop_lookup_string_array(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_modify.9
@manref{ddi_prop_modify(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_remove.9
@manref{ddi_prop_remove(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_remove_all.9
@manref{ddi_prop_remove_all(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_undefine.9
@manref{ddi_prop_undefine(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_update.9
@manref{ddi_prop_update(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_update_byte_array.9
@manref{ddi_prop_update_byte_array(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_update_int64.9
@manref{ddi_prop_update_int64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_update_int64_array.9
@manref{ddi_prop_update_int64_array(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_update_int.9
@manref{ddi_prop_update_int(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_update_string.9
@manref{ddi_prop_update_string(9)}
@item man9/ddi_prop_update_string_array.9
@manref{ddi_prop_update_string_array(9)}
@item man9/ddi_ptob.9
@manref{ddi_ptob(9)}
@item man9/ddi_put16.9
@manref{ddi_put16(9)}
@item man9/ddi_put32.9
@manref{ddi_put32(9)}
@item man9/ddi_put64.9
@manref{ddi_put64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_put8.9
@manref{ddi_put8(9)}
@item man9/ddi_putb.9
@manref{ddi_putb(9)}
@item man9/ddi_putl.9
@manref{ddi_putl(9)}
@item man9/ddi_putll.9
@manref{ddi_putll(9)}
@item man9/ddi_putw.9
@manref{ddi_putw(9)}
@item man9/ddi_regs_map_free.9
@manref{ddi_regs_map_free(9)}
@item man9/ddi_regs_map_setup.9
@manref{ddi_regs_map_setup(9)}
@item man9/ddi_remove_intr.9
@manref{ddi_remove_intr(9)}
@item man9/ddi_remove_minor_node.9
@manref{ddi_remove_minor_node(9)}
@item man9/ddi_remove_softintr.9
@manref{ddi_remove_softintr(9)}
@item man9/ddi_removing_power.9
@manref{ddi_removing_power(9)}
@item man9/ddi_rep_get16.9
@manref{ddi_rep_get16(9)}
@item man9/ddi_rep_get32.9
@manref{ddi_rep_get32(9)}
@item man9/ddi_rep_get64.9
@manref{ddi_rep_get64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_rep_get8.9
@manref{ddi_rep_get8(9)}
@item man9/ddi_rep_getb.9
@manref{ddi_rep_getb(9)}
@item man9/ddi_rep_getl.9
@manref{ddi_rep_getl(9)}
@item man9/ddi_rep_getll.9
@manref{ddi_rep_getll(9)}
@item man9/ddi_rep_getw.9
@manref{ddi_rep_getw(9)}
@item man9/ddi_report_dev.9
@manref{ddi_report_dev(9)}
@item man9/ddi_rep_put16.9
@manref{ddi_rep_put16(9)}
@item man9/ddi_rep_put32.9
@manref{ddi_rep_put32(9)}
@item man9/ddi_rep_put64.9
@manref{ddi_rep_put64(9)}
@item man9/ddi_rep_put8.9
@manref{ddi_rep_put8(9)}
@item man9/ddi_rep_putb.9
@manref{ddi_rep_putb(9)}
@item man9/ddi_rep_putl.9
@manref{ddi_rep_putl(9)}
@item man9/ddi_rep_putll.9
@manref{ddi_rep_putll(9)}
@item man9/ddi_rep_putw.9
@manref{ddi_rep_putw(9)}
@item man9/ddi_root_node.9
@manref{ddi_root_node(9)}
@item man9/ddi_segmap.9
@manref{ddi_segmap(9)}
@item man9/ddi_segmap_setup.9
@manref{ddi_segmap_setup(9)}
@item man9/ddi_set_driver_private.9
@manref{ddi_set_driver_private(9)}
@item man9/ddi_slaveonly.9
@manref{ddi_slaveonly(9)}
@item man9/ddi_soft_state.9
@manref{ddi_soft_state(9)}
@item man9/ddi_soft_state_fini.9
@manref{ddi_soft_state_fini(9)}
@item man9/ddi_soft_state_free.9
@manref{ddi_soft_state_free(9)}
@item man9/ddi_soft_state_init.9
@manref{ddi_soft_state_init(9)}
@item man9/ddi_soft_state_zalloc.9
@manref{ddi_soft_state_zalloc(9)}
@item man9/ddi_trigger_softintr.9
@manref{ddi_trigger_softintr(9)}
@item man9/ddi_umem_lock.9
@manref{ddi_umem_lock(9)}
@item man9/ddi_umem_unlock.9
@manref{ddi_umem_unlock(9)}
@item man9/ddi_unmap_regs.9
@manref{ddi_unmap_regs(9)}

@item man9/uw7compat.9
@manref{uw7compat(9)}

@item man9/allocb_physreq.9
@manref{allocb_physreq(9)}
@item man9/ATOMIC_INT_ADD.9
@manref{ATOMIC_INT_ADD(9)}
@item man9/ATOMIC_INT_ALLOC.9
@manref{ATOMIC_INT_ALLOC(9)}
@item man9/ATOMIC_INT_DEALLOC.9
@manref{ATOMIC_INT_DEALLOC(9)}
@item man9/ATOMIC_INT_DECR.9
@manref{ATOMIC_INT_DECR(9)}
@item man9/ATOMIC_INT_INCR.9
@manref{ATOMIC_INT_INCR(9)}
@item man9/ATOMIC_INT_INIT.9
@manref{ATOMIC_INT_INIT(9)}
@item man9/ATOMIC_INT_READ.9
@manref{ATOMIC_INT_READ(9)}
@item man9/ATOMIC_INT_SUB.9
@manref{ATOMIC_INT_SUB(9)}
@item man9/ATOMIC_INT_WRITE.9
@manref{ATOMIC_INT_WRITE(9)}
@item man9/msgphysreq.9
@manref{msgphysreq(9)}
@item man9/msgpullup_physreq.9
@manref{msgpullup_physreq(9)}
@item man9/msgscgth.9
@manref{msgscgth(9)}
@item man9/printf_UW7.9
@manref{printf_UW7(9)}
@item man9/strioccall.9
@manref{strioccall(9)}

@item man9/osfcompat.9
@manref{osfcompat(9)}

@item man9/DELAY.9
@manref{DELAY(9)}
@item man9/lbolt.9
@manref{lbolt(9)}
@item man9/puthere.9
@manref{puthere(9)}
@item man9/streams_close_comm.9
@manref{streams_close_comm(9)}
@item man9/streams_open_comm.9
@manref{streams_open_comm(9)}
@item man9/streams_open_ocomm.9
@manref{streams_open_ocomm(9)}
@item man9/strmod_add.9
@manref{strmod_add(9)}
@item man9/strmod_del.9
@manref{strmod_del(9)}
@item man9/time.9
@manref{time(9)}
@item man9/uprintf.9
@manref{uprintf(9)}

@item man9/aixcompat.9
@manref{aixcompat(9)}

@item man9/str_install_AIX.9
@manref{str_install_AIX(9)}
@item man9/wantio.9
@manref{wantio(9)}
@item man9/wantmsg.9
@manref{wantmsg(9)}

@item man9/hpuxcompat.9
@manref{hpuxcompat(9)}

@item man9/get_sleep_lock.9
@manref{get_sleep_lock(9)}
@item man9/str_install_HPUX.9
@manref{str_install_HPUX(9)}
@item man9/str_uninstall.9
@manref{str_uninstall(9)}
@item man9/streams_get_sleep_lock.9
@manref{streams_get_sleep_lock(9)}
@item man9/streams_put.9
@manref{streams_put(9)}
@item man9/mpsleep.9
@manref{mpsleep(9)}
@item man9/streams_mpsleep.9
@manref{streams_mpsleep(9)}

@item man9/irixcompat.9
@manref{irixcompat(9)}

@item man9/cmn_err_tag.9
@manref{cmn_err_tag(9)}
@item man9/icmn_err.9
@manref{icmn_err(9)}

@item man9/liscompat.9
@manref{liscompat(9)}

@item man9/lisdeprec.9
@manref{lisdeprec(9)}
@item man9/lis_adjmsg.9
@manref{lis_adjmsg(9)}
@item man9/lis_alloc_atomic_fcn.9
@manref{lis_alloc_atomic_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_allocb.9
@manref{lis_allocb(9)}
@item man9/lis_allocb_physreq.9
@manref{lis_allocb_physreq(9)}
@item man9/lis_alloc_dma_fcn.9
@manref{lis_alloc_dma_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_alloc_kernel_fcn.9
@manref{lis_alloc_kernel_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_appq.9
@manref{lis_appq(9)}
@item man9/lis_apush_get.9
@manref{lis_apush_get(9)}
@item man9/lis_apush_set.9
@manref{lis_apush_set(9)}
@item man9/lis_apush_vml.9
@manref{lis_apush_vml(9)}
@item man9/lis_assert_fail.9
@manref{lis_assert_fail(9)}
@item man9/lis_atomic_add.9
@manref{lis_atomic_add(9)}
@item man9/lis_atomic_dec.9
@manref{lis_atomic_dec(9)}
@item man9/lis_atomic_dec_and_test.9
@manref{lis_atomic_dec_and_test(9)}
@item man9/lis_atomic_inc.9
@manref{lis_atomic_inc(9)}
@item man9/lis_atomic_read.9
@manref{lis_atomic_read(9)}
@item man9/lis_atomic_set.9
@manref{lis_atomic_set(9)}
@item man9/lis_atomic_sub.9
@manref{lis_atomic_sub(9)}
@item man9/lis_backq.9
@manref{lis_backq(9)}
@item man9/lis_backq_fcn.9
@manref{lis_backq_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_bcanput.9
@manref{lis_bcanput(9)}
@item man9/lis_bcanputnext.9
@manref{lis_bcanputnext(9)}
@item man9/lis_bcanputnext_anyband.9
@manref{lis_bcanputnext_anyband(9)}
@item man9/lis_bufcall.9
@manref{lis_bufcall(9)}
@item man9/lis_clone_major.9
@manref{lis_clone_major(9)}
@item man9/lis_cmn_err.9
@manref{lis_cmn_err(9)}
@item man9/lis_copyb.9
@manref{lis_copyb(9)}
@item man9/lis_copymsg.9
@manref{lis_copymsg(9)}
@item man9/lis_date.9
@manref{lis_date(9)}
@item man9/lis_debug_mask2.9
@manref{lis_debug_mask2(9)}
@item man9/lis_debug_mask.9
@manref{lis_debug_mask(9)}
@item man9/lis_disable_irq.9
@manref{lis_disable_irq(9)}
@item man9/lis_down_fcn.9
@manref{lis_down_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_dsecs.9
@manref{lis_dsecs(9)}
@item man9/lis_dupb.9
@manref{lis_dupb(9)}
@item man9/lis_dupmsg.9
@manref{lis_dupmsg(9)}
@item man9/lis_enable_irq.9
@manref{lis_enable_irq(9)}
@item man9/lis_esballoc.9
@manref{lis_esballoc(9)}
@item man9/lis_esbbcall.9
@manref{lis_esbbcall(9)}
@item man9/lis_flushband.9
@manref{lis_flushband(9)}
@item man9/lis_flushq.9
@manref{lis_flushq(9)}
@item man9/lis_free.9
@manref{lis_free(9)}
@item man9/lis_freeb.9
@manref{lis_freeb(9)}
@item man9/lis_free_dma.9
@manref{lis_free_dma(9)}
@item man9/lis_free_irq.9
@manref{lis_free_ireq(9)}
@item man9/lis_free_mem_fcn.9
@manref{lis_free_mem_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_freemsg.9
@manref{lis_freemsg(9)}
@item man9/lis_free_pages_fcn.9
@manref{lis_free_pages_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_freezestr.9
@manref{lis_freezestr(9)}
@item man9/lis_get_free_pages_atomic_fcn.9
@manref{lis_get_free_pages_atomic_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_get_free_pages_fcn.9
@manref{lis_get_free_pages_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_get_free_pages_kernel_fcn.9
@manref{lis_get_free_pages_kernel_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_getint.9
@manref{lis_getint(9)}
@item man9/lis_getq.9
@manref{lis_getq(9)}
@item man9/lis_gettimeofday.9
@manref{lis_gettimeofday(9)}
@item man9/lis_hitime.9
@manref{lis_hitime(9)}
@item man9/lis_insq.9
@manref{lis_insq(9)}
@item man9/lis_interruptible_sleep_on.9
@manref{lis_interruptible_sleep_on(9)}
@item man9/lis_ioremap.9
@manref{lis_ioremap(9)}
@item man9/lis_ioremap_nocache.9
@manref{lis_ioremap_nocache(9)}
@item man9/lis_iounmap.9
@manref{lis_iounmap(9)}
@item man9/lis_jiffies.9
@manref{lis_jiffies(9)}
@item man9/lis_kernel_down.9
@manref{lis_kernel_down(9)}
@item man9/lis_kernel_up.9
@manref{lis_kernel_up(9)}
@item man9/lis_kernel_version.9
@manref{lis_kernel_version(9)}
@item man9/lis_linkb.9
@manref{lis_linkb(9)}
@item man9/lis_major.9
@manref{lis_major(9)}
@item man9/lis_malloc.9
@manref{lis_malloc(9)}
@item man9/lis_max.9
@manref{lis_max(9)}
@item man9/lis_milli_to_ticks.9
@manref{lis_milli_to_ticks(9)}
@item man9/lis_min.9
@manref{lis_min(9)}
@item man9/lis_mknod.9
@manref{lis_mknod(9)}
@item man9/lis_mount.9
@manref{lis_mount(9)}
@item man9/lis_msecs.9
@manref{lis_msecs(9)}
@item man9/lis_msgdsize.9
@manref{lis_msgdsize(9)}
@item man9/lis_msgpullup.9
@manref{lis_msgpullup(9)}
@item man9/lis_msgsize.9
@manref{lis_msgsize(9)}
@item man9/lis_msg_type_name.9
@manref{lis_msg_type_name(9)}
@item man9/lis_num_cpus.9
@manref{lis_num_cpus(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_cli.9
@manref{lis_osif_cli(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_do_gettimeofday.9
@manref{lis_osif_do_gettimeofday(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_do_settimeofday.9
@manref{lis_osif_do_settimeofday(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_alloc_consistent.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_alloc_consistent(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_supported.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_supported(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_sync_single.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_sync_single(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_sync_single_for_cpu.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_sync_single_for_cpu(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_sync_single_for_device.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_sync_single_for_device(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_to_offset.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_to_offset(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_to_page.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_to_page(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_dac_page_to_dma.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_dac_page_to_dma(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_dac_set_dma_mask.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_dac_set_dma_mask(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_disable_device.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_disable_device(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_dma_supported.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_dma_supported(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_dma_sync_sg.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_dma_sync_sg(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_dma_sync_single.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_dma_sync_single(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_enable_device.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_enable_device(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_find_class.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_find_class(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_find_device.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_find_device(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_find_slot.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_find_slot(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_free_consistent.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_free_consistent(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_map_page.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_map_page(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_map_sg.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_map_sg(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_map_single.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_map_single(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_module_init.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_module_init(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_read_config_byte.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_read_config_byte(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_read_config_dword.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_read_config_dword(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_read_config_word.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_read_config_word(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_set_dma_mask.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_set_dma_mask(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_set_master.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_set_master(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_unmap_page.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_unmap_page(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_unmap_sg.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_unmap_sg(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_unmap_single.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_unmap_single(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_unregister_driver.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_unregister_driver(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_write_config_byte.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_write_config_byte(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_write_config_dword.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_write_config_dword(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_pci_write_config_word.9
@manref{lis_osif_pci_write_config_word(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_sg_dma_address.9
@manref{lis_osif_sg_dma_address(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_sg_dma_len.9
@manref{lis_osif_sg_dma_len(9)}
@item man9/lis_osif_sti.9
@manref{lis_osif_sti(9)}
@item man9/lis_OTHER.9
@manref{lis_OTHER(9)}
@item man9/lis_own_spl.9
@manref{lis_own_spl(9)}
@item man9/lis_pcibios_find_class.9
@manref{lis_pcibios_find_class(9)}
@item man9/lis_pcibios_find_device.9
@manref{lis_pcibios_find_device(9)}
@item man9/lis_pcibios_init.9
@manref{lis_pcibios_init(9)}
@item man9/lis_pcibios_present.9
@manref{lis_pcibios_present(9)}
@item man9/lis_pcibios_read_config_byte.9
@manref{lis_pcibios_read_config_byte(9)}
@item man9/lis_pcibios_read_config_dword.9
@manref{lis_pcibios_read_config_dword(9)}
@item man9/lis_pcibios_read_config_word.9
@manref{lis_pcibios_read_config_word(9)}
@item man9/lis_pcibios_strerror.9
@manref{lis_pcibios_strerror(9)}
@item man9/lis_pcibios_write_config_byte.9
@manref{lis_pcibios_write_config_byte(9)}
@item man9/lis_pcibios_write_config_dword.9
@manref{lis_pcibios_write_config_dword(9)}
@item man9/lis_pcibios_write_config_word.9
@manref{lis_pcibios_write_config_word(9)}
@item man9/lis_pci_disable_device.9
@manref{lis_pci_disable_device(9)}
@item man9/lis_pci_enable_device.9
@manref{lis_pci_enable_device(9)}
@item man9/lis_pci_find_class.9
@manref{lis_pci_find_class(9)}
@item man9/lis_pci_find_device.9
@manref{lis_pci_find_device(9)}
@item man9/lis_pci_find_slot.9
@manref{lis_pci_find_slot(9)}
@item man9/lis_pci_read_config_byte.9
@manref{lis_pci_read_config_byte(9)}
@item man9/lis_pci_read_config_dword.9
@manref{lis_pci_read_config_dword(9)}
@item man9/lis_pci_read_config_word.9
@manref{lis_pci_read_config_word(9)}
@item man9/lis_pci_set_master.9
@manref{lis_pci_set_master(9)}
@item man9/lis_pci_write_config_byte.9
@manref{lis_pci_write_config_byte(9)}
@item man9/lis_pci_write_config_dword.9
@manref{lis_pci_write_config_dword(9)}
@item man9/lis_pci_write_config_word.9
@manref{lis_pci_write_config_word(9)}
@item man9/lis_phys_to_virt.9
@manref{lis_phys_to_virt(9)}
@item man9/lis_print_block.9
@manref{lis_print_block(9)}
@item man9/lis_print_data.9
@manref{lis_print_data(9)}
@item man9/lis_printk.9
@manref{lis_printk(9)}
@item man9/lis_print_mem.9
@manref{lis_print_mem(9)}
@item man9/lis_print_msg.9
@manref{lis_print_msg(9)}
@item man9/lis_print_queue.9
@manref{lis_print_queue(9)}
@item man9/lis_pullupmsg.9
@manref{lis_pullupmsg(9)}
@item man9/lis_putbq.9
@manref{lis_putbq(9)}
@item man9/lis_putbyte.9
@manref{lis_putbyte(9)}
@item man9/lis_putctl1.9
@manref{lis_putctl1(9)}
@item man9/lis_putctl.9
@manref{lis_putctl(9)}
@item man9/lis_putnextctl1.9
@manref{lis_putnextctl1(9)}
@item man9/lis_putnextctl.9
@manref{lis_putnextctl(9)}
@item man9/lis_putq.9
@manref{lis_putq(9)}
@item man9/lis_qcountstrm.9
@manref{lis_qcountstrm(9)}
@item man9/lis_qenable.9
@manref{lis_qenable(9)}
@item man9/lis_qprocsoff.9
@manref{lis_qprocsoff(9)}
@item man9/lis_qprocson.9
@manref{lis_qprocson(9)}
@item man9/lis_qsize.9
@manref{lis_qsize(9)}
@item man9/lis_queue_name.9
@manref{lis_queue_name(9)}
@item man9/lis_register_strdev.9
@manref{lis_register_strdev(9)}
@item man9/lis_register_strmod.9
@manref{lis_register_strmod(9)}
@item man9/lis_release_region.9
@manref{lis_release_region(9)}
@item man9/lis_request_dma.9
@manref{lis_request_dma(9)}
@item man9/lis_request_irq.9
@manref{lis_request_irq(9)}
@item man9/lis_request_region.9
@manref{lis_request_region(9)}
@item man9/lis_rmvb.9
@manref{lis_rmvb(9)}
@item man9/lis_rmvq.9
@manref{lis_rmvq(9)}
@item man9/lis_rw_lock_alloc_fcn.9
@manref{lis_rw_lock_alloc_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_rw_lock_free_fcn.9
@manref{lis_rw_lock_free_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_rw_lock_init_fcn.9
@manref{lis_rw_lock_init_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_rw_read_lock_fcn.9
@manref{lis_rc_read_lock_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_rw_read_lock_irq_fcn.9
@manref{lis_rw_read_lock_irq_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_rw_read_lock_irqsave_fcn.9
@manref{lis_rw_read_lock_irqsave_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_rw_read_unlock_fcn.9
@manref{lis_rw_read_unlock_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_rw_read_unlock_irq_fcn.9
@manref{lis_rw_read_unlock_irq_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_rw_read_unlock_irqrestore_fcn.9
@manref{lis_rw_read_unlock_irqrestore_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_rw_write_lock_fcn.9
@manref{lis_rw_write_lock_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_rw_write_lock_irq_fcn.9
@manref{lis_rw_write_lock_irq_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_rw_write_lock_irqsave_fcn.9
@manref{lis_rw_write_lock_irqsave_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_rw_write_unlock_fcn.9
@manref{lis_rw_write_unlock_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_rw_write_unlock_irq_fcn.9
@manref{lis_rw_write_unlock_irq_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_rw_write_unlock_irqrestore_fcn.9
@manref{lis_rw_write_unlock_irqrestore_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_safe_canenable.9
@manref{lis_safe_canenable(9)}
@item man9/lis_safe_enableok.9
@manref{lis_safe_enableok(9)}
@item man9/lis_safe_noenable.9
@manref{lis_safe_noenable(9)}
@item man9/lis_safe_OTHERQ.9
@manref{lis_safe_OTHERQ(9)}
@item man9/lis_safe_putmsg.9
@manref{lis_safe_putmsg(9)}
@item man9/lis_safe_putnext.9
@manref{lis_safe_putnext(9)}
@item man9/lis_safe_qreply.9
@manref{lis_safe_qreply(9)}
@item man9/lis_safe_RD.9
@manref{lis_safe_RD(9)}
@item man9/lis_safe_SAMESTR.9
@manref{lis_safe_SAMESTR(9)}
@item man9/lis_safe_WR.9
@manref{lis_safe_WR(9)}
@item man9/lis_secs.9
@manref{lis_secs(9)}
@item man9/lis_sem_alloc.9
@manref{lis_sem_alloc(9)}
@item man9/lis_sem_destroy.9
@manref{lis_sem_destroy(9)}
@item man9/lis_sem_init.9
@manref{lis_sem_init(9)}
@item man9/lis_sleep_on.9
@manref{lis_sleep_on(9)}
@item man9/lis_spin_is_locked_fcn.9
@manref{lis_spin_is_locked_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_spin_lock_alloc_fcn.9
@manref{lis_spin_lock_alloc_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_spin_lock_fcn.9
@manref{lis_spin_lock_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_spin_lock_free_fcn.9
@manref{lis_spin_lock_free_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_spin_lock_init_fcn.9
@manref{lis_spin_lock_init_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_spin_lock_irq_fcn.9
@manref{lis_spin_lock_irq_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_spin_lock_irqsave_fcn.9
@manref{lis_spin_lock_irqsave_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_spin_trylock_fcn.9
@manref{lis_spin_trylock_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_spin_unlock_fcn.9
@manref{lis_spin_unlock_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_spin_unlock_irq_fcn.9
@manref{lis_spin_unlock_irq_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_spin_unlock_irqrestore_fcn.9
@manref{lis_spin_unlock_irqrestore_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_spl0_fcn.9
@manref{lis_spl0_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_splstr_fcn.9
@manref{lis_splstr_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_splx_fcn.9
@manref{lis_splx_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_sprintf.9
@manref{lis_sprintf(9)}
@item man9/lis_strm_name.9
@manref{lis_strm_name(9)}
@item man9/lis_strm_name_from_queue.9
@manref{lis_strm_name_from_queue(9)}
@item man9/lis_stropts_file.9
@manref{lis_stropts_file(9)}
@item man9/lis_strqget.9
@manref{lis_strqget(9)}
@item man9/lis_strqset.9
@manref{lis_strqset(9)}
@item man9/lis_testb.9
@manref{lis_testb(9)}
@item man9/lis_thread_start.9
@manref{lis_thread_start(9)}
@item man9/lis_thread_stop.9
@manref{lis_thread_stop(9)}
@item man9/lis_timeout_fcn.9
@manref{lis_timeout_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_udelay.9
@manref{lis_udelay(9)}
@item man9/lis_unbufcall.9
@manref{lis_unbufcall(9)}
@item man9/lis_unfreezestr.9
@manref{lis_unfreezestr(9)}
@item man9/lis_unlink.9
@manref{lis_unlink(9)}
@item man9/lis_unlinkb.9
@manref{lis_unlinkb(9)}
@item man9/lis_unregister_strdev.9
@manref{lis_unregister_strdev(9)}
@item man9/lis_unregister_strmod.9
@manref{lis_unregister_strmod(9)}
@item man9/lis_untimeout.9
@manref{lis_untimeout(9)}
@item man9/lis_up_fcn.9
@manref{lis_up_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_usecs.9
@manref{lis_usecs(9)}
@item man9/lis_usectohz.9
@manref{lis_usectohz(9)}
@item man9/lis_version.9
@manref{lis_version(9)}
@item man9/lis_vfree.9
@manref{lis_vfree(9)}
@item man9/lis_virt_to_phys.9
@manref{lis_virt_to_phys(9)}
@item man9/lis_vmalloc.9
@manref{lis_vmalloc(9)}
@item man9/lis_vremap.9
@manref{lis_vremap(9)}
@item man9/lis_vsprintf.9
@manref{lis_vsprintf(9)}
@item man9/lis_wake_up.9
@manref{lis_wake_up(9)}
@item man9/lis_wake_up_interruptible.9
@manref{lis_wake_up_interruptible(9)}
@item man9/lis_xmsgsize.9
@manref{lis_xmsgsize(9)}
@item man9/lis_zmalloc.9
@manref{lis_zmalloc(9)}
@item man9/lis_add_timer.9
@manref{lis_add_timer(9)}
@item man9/lis_allocq.9
@manref{lis_allocq(9)}
@item man9/lis_apushm.9
@manref{lis_apushm(9)}
@item man9/lis_basename.9
@manref{lis_basename(9)}
@item man9/lis_bprintf.9
@manref{lis_bprintf(9)}
@item man9/lis_can_unload.9
@manref{lis_can_unload(9)}
@item man9/lis_check_guard.9
@manref{lis_check_guard(9)}
@item man9/lis_check_mem.9
@manref{lis_check_mem(9)}
@item man9/lis_check_mem_region.9
@manref{lis_check_mem_region(9)}
@item man9/lis_check_q_magic.9
@manref{lis_check_q_magic(9)}
@item man9/lis_check_region.9
@manref{lis_check_region(9)}
@item man9/lis_check_umem.9
@manref{lis_check_umem(9)}
@item man9/lis_copyin.9
@manref{lis_copyin(9)}
@item man9/lis_copyout.9
@manref{lis_copyout(9)}
@item man9/lis_dec_mod_cnt_fcn.9
@manref{lis_dec_mod_cnt_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_del_timer.9
@manref{lis_del_timer(9)}
@item man9/lis_dobufcall.9
@manref{lis_dobufcall(9)}
@item man9/lis_doclose.9
@manref{lis_doclose(9)}
@item man9/lis_enable_intr.9
@manref{lis_enable_intr(9)}
@item man9/lis_fattach.9
@manref{lis_fattach(9)}
@item man9/lis_fdetach.9
@manref{lis_fdetach(9)}
@item man9/lis_fdetach_all.9
@manref{lis_fdetach_all(9)}
@item man9/lis_fdetach_stream.9
@manref{lis_fdetach_stream(9)}
@item man9/lis_fifo_close_sync.9
@manref{lis_fifo_close_sync(9)}
@item man9/lis_fifo_open_sync.9
@manref{lis_fifo_open_sync(9)}
@item man9/lis_fifo_write_sync.9
@manref{lis_fifo_write_sync(9)}
@item man9/lis_file_inode.9
@manref{lis_file_inode(9)}
@item man9/lis_file_str.9
@manref{lis_file_str(9)}
@item man9/lis_find_strdev.9
@manref{lis_find_strdev(9)}
@item man9/lis_flush_print_buffer.9
@manref{lis_flush_print_buffer(9)}
@item man9/lis_fmod_sw.9
@manref{lis_fmod_sw(9)}
@item man9/lis_freedb.9
@manref{lis_freedb(9)}
@item man9/lis_free_passfp.9
@manref{lis_free_passfp(9)}
@item man9/lis_freeq.9
@manref{lis_freeq(9)}
@item man9/lis_fstr_sw.9
@manref{lis_fstr_sw(9)}
@item man9/lis_get_fifo.9
@manref{lis_get_fifo(9)}
@item man9/lis_get_passfp.9
@manref{lis_get_passfp(9)}
@item man9/lis_get_pipe.9
@manref{lis_get_pipe(9)}
@item man9/lis_inc_mod_cnt_fcn.9
@manref{lis_inc_mod_cnt_fcn(9)}
@item man9/lis_init_bufcall.9
@manref{lis_init_bufcall(9)}
@item man9/lis_in_syscall.9
@manref{lis_in_syscall(9)}
@item man9/lis_ioc_fattach.9
@manref{lis_ioc_fattach(9)}
@item man9/lis_ioc_fdetach.9
@manref{lis_ioc_fdetach(9)}
@item man9/lis_ioc_pipe.9
@manref{lis_ioc_pipe(9)}
@item man9/lis__kfree.9
@manref{lis__kfree(9)}
@item man9/lis_kfree.9
@manref{lis_kfree(9)}
@item man9/lis_kmalloc.9
@manref{lis_kmalloc(9)}
@item man9/lis_kill_pg.9
@manref{lis_kill_pg(9)}
@item man9/lis_kill_proc.9
@manref{lis_kill_proc(9)}
@item man9/lis__kmalloc.9
@manref{lis__kmalloc(9)}
@item man9/lis_loadable_load.9
@manref{lis_loadable_load(9)}
@item man9/lis_maj_min_name.9
@manref{lis_maj_min_name(9)}
@item man9/lis_mark_mem.9
@manref{lis_mark_mem(9)}
@item man9/lis_max_mem.9
@manref{lis_max_mem(9)}
@item man9/lis_old_inode.9
@manref{lis_old_inode(9)}
@item man9/lis_open_cnt.9
@manref{lis_open_cnt(9)}
@item man9/lis_pci_cleanup.9
@manref{lis_pci_cleanup(9)}
@item man9/lis_pipe.9
@manref{lis_pipe(9)}
@item man9/lis_poll_2_1.9
@manref{lis_poll_2_1(9)}
@item man9/lis_poll_bits.9
@manref{lis_poll_bits(9)}
@item man9/lis_poll_events.9
@manref{lis_poll_events(9)}
@item man9/lis_poll_file.9
@manref{lis_poll_file(9)}
@item man9/lis_print_queues.9
@manref{lis_print_queues(9)}
@item man9/lis_print_spl_track.9
@manref{lis_print_spl_track(9)}
@item man9/lis_print_stream.9
@manref{lis_print_stream(9)}
@item man9/lis_qattach.9
@manref{lis_qattach(9)}
@item man9/lis_qdetach.9
@manref{lis_qdetach(9)}
@item man9/lis_queuerun_cnts.9
@manref{lis_queuerun_cnts(9)}
@item man9/lis_queues_running.9
@manref{lis_queue_running(9)}
@item man9/lis_recvfd.9
@manref{lis_recvfd(9)}
@item man9/lis_release_mem_region.9
@manref{lis_release_mem_region(9)}
@item man9/lis_request_mem_region.9
@manref{lis_request_mem_region(9)}
@item man9/lis_runq_cnts.9
@manref{lis_runq_cnt(9)}
@item man9/lis_runq_req_cnt.9
@manref{lis_runq_req_cnt(9)}
@item man9/lis_sendfd.9
@manref{lis_sendfd(9)}
@item man9/lis_set_file_str.9
@manref{lis_set_file_str(9)}
@item man9/lis_setq.9
@manref{lis_setq(9)}
@item man9/lis_setqsched.9
@manref{lis_setqsched(9)}
@item man9/lis_setqsched_cnts.9
@manref{lis_setqsched_cnts(9)}
@item man9/lis_setqsched_isr_cnts.9
@manref{lis_setqsched_isr_cnts(9)}
@item man9/lis_stdata_cnt.9
@manref{lis_stdata_cnt(9)}
@item man9/lis_strclose.9
@manref{lis_strclose(9)}
@item man9/lis_strcount.9
@manref{lis_strcount(9)}
@item man9/lis_strgetpmsg.9
@manref{lis_strgetpmsg(9)}
@item man9/lis_strioctl.9
@manref{lis_strioctl(9)}
@item man9/lis_stropen.9
@manref{lis_stropen(9)}
@item man9/lis_strputpmsg.9
@manref{lis_strputpmsg(9)}
@item man9/lis_strread.9
@manref{lis_strread(9)}
@item man9/lis_strstats.9
@manref{lis_strstats(9)}
@item man9/lis_strwrite.9
@manref{lis_strwrite(9)}
@item man9/lis_umount2.9
@manref{lis_umount2(9)}
@item man9/lis_valid_mod_list.9
@manref{lis_valid_mod_list(9)}

@item man9/maccompat.9
@manref{maccompat(9)}

@item man9/allocbi.9
@manref{allocbi(9)}
@item man9/esballoca.9
@manref{esballoca(9)}
@item man9/mpnotify.9
@manref{mpnotify(9)}

@end table
@end ignore

@ignore
/usr
/usr/include
/usr/include/strcompat
/usr/include/strcompat/sys
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/strcompat
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/strcompat/config.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/strcompat/version.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/os7
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/os7/allocb.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/os7/bufpool.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/os7/bufq.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/os7/compat.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/os7/debug.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/os7/lock.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/os7/priv.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/os7/queue.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/os7/timer.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/os7/ddi.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/os7/strconf.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/os7/stream.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/ddi.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/strconf.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/stream.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/aix
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/aix/ddi.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/aix/strconf.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/aix/stream.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/hpux
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/hpux/ddi.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/hpux/strconf.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/hpux/stream.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/irix
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/irix/ddi.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/irix/strconf.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/irix/stream.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/lis
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/lis/ddi.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/lis/strconf.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/lis/stream.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/mac
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/mac/ddi.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/mac/strconf.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/mac/stream.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/mps
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/mps/ddi.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/mps/strconf.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/mps/stream.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/osf
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/osf/ddi.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/osf/strconf.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/osf/stream.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/sun
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/sun/ddi.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/sun/strconf.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/sun/strsun.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/sun/stream.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/sunddi.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/strsun.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/svr3
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/svr3/ddi.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/svr3/strconf.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/svr3/stream.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/svr4
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/svr4/ddi.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/svr4/strconf.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/svr4/stream.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/uw7
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/uw7/ddi.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/uw7/strconf.h
/usr/include/strcompat/sys/uw7/stream.h
/usr/libexec
/usr/libexec/strcompat
/usr/libexec/strcompat/send-pr
/usr/libexec/strcompat/send-pr.config
/usr/libexec/strcompat/testsuite
/usr/libexec/strcompat/atlocal
/usr/lib
/usr/sbin
/usr/sbin/strcompat_mknod
/usr/share
/usr/share/man
/usr/share/man/strcompat.macros
/usr/share/man/strcompat.refs
/usr/share/man/man5
/usr/share/man/man5/strcompat.5
/usr/share/man/man8
/usr/share/man/man8/strcompat_mknod.8
/usr/share/man/man9
/usr/share/man/man9/alloc_proto.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mkiocb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/os7compat.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_append.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_dequeue.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_dequeue_tail.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_freehead.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_head.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_init.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_insert.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_length.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_lock.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_purge.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_queue.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_queue_head.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_resupply.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_size.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_splice_head.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_splice_tail.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_supply.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_tail.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_unlink.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufq_unlock.9
/usr/share/man/man9/freechunks.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_allocb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_bufcall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_bufpool_init.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_bufpool_release.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_bufpool_reserve.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_bufpool_term.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_bufsrv.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_copyb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_copymsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_do_timeout.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_dupb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_dupmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_esballoc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_esbbcall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_fast_allocb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_fast_freeb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_fast_freemsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_iput.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_isrv.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_oput.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_osrv.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_pullupmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_putq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_r_flush.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_srvq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_start_timer.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_stop_timer.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_trylockq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_unbufcall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_unlockq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ss7_w_flush.9
/usr/share/man/man9/svr3compat.9
/usr/share/man/man9/emajor.9
/usr/share/man/man9/eminor.9
/usr/share/man/man9/svr4compat.9
/usr/share/man/man9/dtimeout.9
/usr/share/man/man9/etoimajor.9
/usr/share/man/man9/getemajor.9
/usr/share/man/man9/geteminor.9
/usr/share/man/man9/itimeout.9
/usr/share/man/man9/itoemajor.9
/usr/share/man/man9/LOCK.9
/usr/share/man/man9/LOCK_ALLOC.9
/usr/share/man/man9/LOCK_DEALLOC.9
/usr/share/man/man9/LOCK_OWNED.9
/usr/share/man/man9/MPSTR_QLOCK.9
/usr/share/man/man9/MPSTR_QRELE.9
/usr/share/man/man9/MPSTR_STPLOCK.9
/usr/share/man/man9/MPSTR_STPRELE.9
/usr/share/man/man9/RW_ALLOC.9
/usr/share/man/man9/RW_DEALLOC.9
/usr/share/man/man9/RW_RDLOCK.9
/usr/share/man/man9/RW_TRYRDLOCK.9
/usr/share/man/man9/RW_TRYWRLOCK.9
/usr/share/man/man9/RW_UNLOCK.9
/usr/share/man/man9/RW_WRLOCK.9
/usr/share/man/man9/sleep.9
/usr/share/man/man9/SLEEP_ALLOC.9
/usr/share/man/man9/SLEEP_DEALLOC.9
/usr/share/man/man9/SLEEP_LOCK.9
/usr/share/man/man9/SLEEP_LOCKAVAIL.9
/usr/share/man/man9/SLEEP_LOCKOWNED.9
/usr/share/man/man9/SLEEP_LOCK_SIG.9
/usr/share/man/man9/SLEEP_TRYLOCK.9
/usr/share/man/man9/SLEEP_UNLOCK.9
/usr/share/man/man9/spl0.9
/usr/share/man/man9/spl1.9
/usr/share/man/man9/spl2.9
/usr/share/man/man9/spl3.9
/usr/share/man/man9/spl4.9
/usr/share/man/man9/spl5.9
/usr/share/man/man9/spl6.9
/usr/share/man/man9/spl7.9
/usr/share/man/man9/spl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/splbase.9
/usr/share/man/man9/spldisk.9
/usr/share/man/man9/splhi.9
/usr/share/man/man9/splstr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/spltimeout.9
/usr/share/man/man9/spltty.9
/usr/share/man/man9/splx.9
/usr/share/man/man9/SV_ALLOC.9
/usr/share/man/man9/SV_BROADCAST.9
/usr/share/man/man9/SV_DEALLOC.9
/usr/share/man/man9/SV_SIGNAL.9
/usr/share/man/man9/SV_WAIT.9
/usr/share/man/man9/SV_WAIT_SIG.9
/usr/share/man/man9/TRYLOCK.9
/usr/share/man/man9/UNLOCK.9
/usr/share/man/man9/wakeup.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mpscompat.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_alloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_allocq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_alloc_sleep.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_attach.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_bcmp.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_bufcall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_close_comm.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_close_detached.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_close_free.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_close_unlink.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_copy_done.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_copyin.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_copyin_n.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_copyout.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_copyout_alloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_copy_set_rval.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_copy_state.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_detach.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_first_dev_ptr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_first_ptr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_free.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_freeq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_mpprintf.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_mpprintf_nr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_next_dev_ptr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_next_ptr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_offset_param.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_offset_paramc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_open_alloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_open_alloc_sleep.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_open_comm.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_open_detached.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_open_link.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_prev_ptr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_reallocb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_reuse_proto.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_set_sth_copyopt.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_set_sth_hiwat.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_set_sth_lowat.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_set_sth_maxblk.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_set_sth_wroff.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_sprintf.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_strcmp.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_strlen.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_strlog.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_strtol.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_timer.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_timer_MAC.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_timer_SUN.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_timer_alloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_timer_alloc_MAC.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_timer_alloc_SUN.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_timer_cancel.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_timer_free.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_timer_move.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_timer_q_switch.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_timer_stop.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_timer_valid.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_zalloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_zalloc_sleep.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mps_become_writer.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mps_intr_disable.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mps_intr_enable.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_sprintf_putc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/suncompat.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_ack_alloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_conn_con.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_conn_ind.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_conn_req.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_data_ind.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_data_req.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_discon_ind.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_discon_req.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_err_ack_alloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_exdata_ind.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_exdata_req.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_info_req.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_ok_ack_alloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_ordrel_ind.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_ordrel_req.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_uderror_ind.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_unitdata_ind.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mi_tpi_unitdata_req.9
/usr/share/man/man9/DB_BASE.9
/usr/share/man/man9/DB_LIM.9
/usr/share/man/man9/DB_REF.9
/usr/share/man/man9/DB_TYPE.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get_cred.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_getiminor.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get_lbolt.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get_pid.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get_time.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_op.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_umem_alloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_umem_free.9
/usr/share/man/man9/freezestr_SUN.9
/usr/share/man/man9/MBLKHEAD.9
/usr/share/man/man9/MBLKIN.9
/usr/share/man/man9/MBLKL.9
/usr/share/man/man9/MBLKSIZE.9
/usr/share/man/man9/MBLKTAIL.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mcopyin.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mcopymsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mcopyout.9
/usr/share/man/man9/merror.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mexchange.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mexpandb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mioc2ack.9
/usr/share/man/man9/miocack.9
/usr/share/man/man9/miocnak.9
/usr/share/man/man9/miocpullup.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mod_info.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mod_install.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mod_remove.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mod_strmops.9
/usr/share/man/man9/nochpoll.9
/usr/share/man/man9/nodev.9
/usr/share/man/man9/nulldev.9
/usr/share/man/man9/OFFSET.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qbufcall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qtimeout.9
/usr/share/man/man9/queclass.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qunbufcall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/quntimeout.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qwait.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qwait_sig.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qwriter.9
/usr/share/man/man9/unfreezestr_SUN.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_add_intr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_add_softintr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_binding_name.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_btop.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_btopr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_check_acc_handle.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_check_dma_handle.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_copyin.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_copyout.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_create_minor_node.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_device_copy.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_device_zero.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_devid_compare.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_devid_free.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_devid_init.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_devid_register.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_devid_sizeof.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_devid_str_decode.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_devid_str_encode.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_devid_str_free.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_devid_unregister.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_devid_valid.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dev_is_needed.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dev_is_sid.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_devmap_segmap.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dev_nintrs.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dev_nregs.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dev_regsize.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dev_report_fault.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_addr_bind_handle.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_addr_setup.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_alloc_handle.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_buf_bind_handle.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_buf_setup.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_burstsizes.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_coff.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_curwin.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_devalign.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dmae_1stparty.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dmae.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dmae_alloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dmae_disable.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dmae_enable.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dmae_getattr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dmae_getcnt.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dmae_getlim.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dmae_prog.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dmae_release.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dmae_stop.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_free.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_free_handle.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_get_attr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_getwin.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_htoc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_mem_alloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_mem_free.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_movwin.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_nextcookie.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_nextseg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_nextwin.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_numwin.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_segtocookie.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_set_sbus64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_setup.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_sync.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_dma_unbind_handle.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_driver_major.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_driver_name.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_enter_critical.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_exit_critical.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_ffs.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_fls.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get16.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get32.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get8.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_getb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get_devstate.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get_driver_private.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get_iblock_cookie.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get_instance.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get_kt_did.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_getl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_getll.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_getlongprop.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_getlongprop_buf.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get_name.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get_parent.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_getprop.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_getproplen.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get_soft_iblock_cookie.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_get_soft_state.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_getw.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_in_panic.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_intr_hilevel.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_get16.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_get32.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_get64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_get8.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_getb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_getl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_getw.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_iomin.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_iopb_alloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_iopb_free.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_put16.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_put32.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_put64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_put8.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_putb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_putl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_putw.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_rep_get16.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_rep_get32.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_rep_get64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_rep_get8.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_rep_getb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_rep_getl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_rep_getw.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_rep_put16.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_rep_put32.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_rep_put64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_rep_put8.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_rep_putb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_rep_putl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_io_rep_putw.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_log_sysevent.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mapdev.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mapdev_intercept.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mapdev_nointercept.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_map_regs.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_alloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_free.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_get16.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_get32.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_get64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_get8.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_getb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_getl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_getll.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_getw.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_put16.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_put32.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_put64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_put8.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_putb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_putl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_putll.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_putw.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_rep_get16.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_rep_get32.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_rep_get64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_rep_get8.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_rep_getb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_rep_getl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_rep_getll.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_rep_getw.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_rep_put16.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_rep_put32.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_rep_put64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_rep_put8.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_rep_putb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_rep_putl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_rep_putll.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mem_rep_putw.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_mmap_get_model.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_model_convert_from.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_node_name.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_peek16.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_peek32.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_peek64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_peek8.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_peek.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_peekc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_peekd.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_peekl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_peeks.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_poke16.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_poke32.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_poke64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_poke8.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_poke.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_pokec.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_poked.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_pokel.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_pokes.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_create.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_exists.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_free.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_get_int64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_get_int.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_lookup.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_lookup_byte_array.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_lookup_int64_array.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_lookup_int_array.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_lookup_string.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_lookup_string_array.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_modify.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_remove.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_remove_all.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_undefine.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_update.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_update_byte_array.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_update_int64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_update_int64_array.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_update_int.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_update_string.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_prop_update_string_array.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_ptob.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_put16.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_put32.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_put64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_put8.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_putb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_putl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_putll.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_putw.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_regs_map_free.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_regs_map_setup.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_remove_intr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_remove_minor_node.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_remove_softintr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_removing_power.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_rep_get16.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_rep_get32.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_rep_get64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_rep_get8.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_rep_getb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_rep_getl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_rep_getll.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_rep_getw.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_report_dev.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_rep_put16.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_rep_put32.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_rep_put64.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_rep_put8.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_rep_putb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_rep_putl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_rep_putll.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_rep_putw.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_root_node.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_segmap.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_segmap_setup.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_set_driver_private.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_slaveonly.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_soft_state.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_soft_state_fini.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_soft_state_free.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_soft_state_init.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_soft_state_zalloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_trigger_softintr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_umem_lock.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_umem_unlock.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ddi_unmap_regs.9
/usr/share/man/man9/uw7compat.9
/usr/share/man/man9/allocb_physreq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ATOMIC_INT_ADD.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ATOMIC_INT_ALLOC.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ATOMIC_INT_DEALLOC.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ATOMIC_INT_DECR.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ATOMIC_INT_INCR.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ATOMIC_INT_INIT.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ATOMIC_INT_READ.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ATOMIC_INT_SUB.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ATOMIC_INT_WRITE.9
/usr/share/man/man9/msgphysreq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/msgpullup_physreq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/msgscgth.9
/usr/share/man/man9/printf_UW7.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strioccall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/osfcompat.9
/usr/share/man/man9/DELAY.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lbolt.9
/usr/share/man/man9/puthere.9
/usr/share/man/man9/streams_close_comm.9
/usr/share/man/man9/streams_open_comm.9
/usr/share/man/man9/streams_open_ocomm.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strmod_add.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strmod_del.9
/usr/share/man/man9/time.9
/usr/share/man/man9/uprintf.9
/usr/share/man/man9/aixcompat.9
/usr/share/man/man9/str_install_AIX.9
/usr/share/man/man9/wantio.9
/usr/share/man/man9/wantmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/hpuxcompat.9
/usr/share/man/man9/get_sleep_lock.9
/usr/share/man/man9/str_install_HPUX.9
/usr/share/man/man9/str_uninstall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/streams_get_sleep_lock.9
/usr/share/man/man9/streams_put.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mpsleep.9
/usr/share/man/man9/streams_mpsleep.9
/usr/share/man/man9/irixcompat.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cmn_err_tag.9
/usr/share/man/man9/icmn_err.9
/usr/share/man/man9/liscompat.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lisdeprec.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_adjmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_alloc_atomic_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_allocb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_allocb_physreq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_alloc_dma_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_alloc_kernel_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_appq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_apush_get.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_apush_set.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_apush_vml.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_assert_fail.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_atomic_add.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_atomic_dec.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_atomic_dec_and_test.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_atomic_inc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_atomic_read.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_atomic_set.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_atomic_sub.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_backq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_backq_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_bcanput.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_bcanputnext.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_bcanputnext_anyband.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_bufcall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_clone_major.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_cmn_err.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_copyb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_copymsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_date.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_debug_mask2.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_debug_mask.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_disable_irq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_down_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_dsecs.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_dupb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_dupmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_enable_irq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_esballoc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_esbbcall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_flushband.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_flushq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_free.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_freeb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_free_dma.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_free_irq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_free_mem_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_freemsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_free_pages_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_freezestr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_get_free_pages_atomic_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_get_free_pages_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_get_free_pages_kernel_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_getint.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_getq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_gettimeofday.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_hitime.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_insq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_interruptible_sleep_on.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_ioremap.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_ioremap_nocache.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_iounmap.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_jiffies.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_kernel_down.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_kernel_up.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_kernel_version.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_linkb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_major.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_malloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_max.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_milli_to_ticks.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_min.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_mknod.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_mount.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_msecs.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_msgdsize.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_msgpullup.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_msgsize.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_msg_type_name.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_num_cpus.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_cli.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_do_gettimeofday.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_do_settimeofday.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_alloc_consistent.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_supported.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_sync_single.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_sync_single_for_cpu.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_sync_single_for_device.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_to_offset.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_dac_dma_to_page.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_dac_page_to_dma.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_dac_set_dma_mask.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_disable_device.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_dma_supported.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_dma_sync_sg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_dma_sync_single.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_enable_device.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_find_class.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_find_device.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_find_slot.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_free_consistent.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_map_page.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_map_sg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_map_single.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_module_init.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_read_config_byte.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_read_config_dword.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_read_config_word.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_set_dma_mask.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_set_master.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_unmap_page.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_unmap_sg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_unmap_single.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_unregister_driver.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_write_config_byte.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_write_config_dword.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_pci_write_config_word.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_sg_dma_address.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_sg_dma_len.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_osif_sti.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_OTHER.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_own_spl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pcibios_find_class.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pcibios_find_device.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pcibios_init.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pcibios_present.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pcibios_read_config_byte.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pcibios_read_config_dword.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pcibios_read_config_word.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pcibios_strerror.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pcibios_write_config_byte.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pcibios_write_config_dword.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pcibios_write_config_word.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pci_disable_device.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pci_enable_device.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pci_find_class.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pci_find_device.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pci_find_slot.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pci_read_config_byte.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pci_read_config_dword.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pci_read_config_word.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pci_set_master.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pci_write_config_byte.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pci_write_config_dword.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pci_write_config_word.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_phys_to_virt.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_print_block.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_print_data.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_printk.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_print_mem.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_print_msg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_print_queue.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pullupmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_putbq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_putbyte.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_putctl1.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_putctl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_putnextctl1.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_putnextctl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_putq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_qcountstrm.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_qenable.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_qprocsoff.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_qprocson.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_qsize.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_queue_name.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_register_strdev.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_register_strmod.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_release_region.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_request_dma.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_request_irq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_request_region.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rmvb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rmvq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rw_lock_alloc_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rw_lock_free_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rw_lock_init_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rw_read_lock_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rw_read_lock_irq_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rw_read_lock_irqsave_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rw_read_unlock_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rw_read_unlock_irq_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rw_read_unlock_irqrestore_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rw_write_lock_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rw_write_lock_irq_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rw_write_lock_irqsave_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rw_write_unlock_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rw_write_unlock_irq_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_rw_write_unlock_irqrestore_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_safe_canenable.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_safe_enableok.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_safe_noenable.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_safe_OTHERQ.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_safe_putmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_safe_putnext.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_safe_qreply.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_safe_RD.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_safe_SAMESTR.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_safe_WR.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_secs.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_sem_alloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_sem_destroy.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_sem_init.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_sleep_on.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_spin_is_locked_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_spin_lock_alloc_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_spin_lock_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_spin_lock_free_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_spin_lock_init_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_spin_lock_irq_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_spin_lock_irqsave_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_spin_trylock_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_spin_unlock_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_spin_unlock_irq_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_spin_unlock_irqrestore_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_spl0_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_splstr_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_splx_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_sprintf.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_strm_name.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_strm_name_from_queue.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_stropts_file.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_strqget.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_strqset.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_testb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_thread_start.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_thread_stop.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_timeout_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_udelay.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_unbufcall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_unfreezestr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_unlink.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_unlinkb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_unregister_strdev.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_unregister_strmod.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_untimeout.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_up_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_usecs.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_usectohz.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_version.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_vfree.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_virt_to_phys.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_vmalloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_vremap.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_vsprintf.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_wake_up.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_wake_up_interruptible.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_xmsgsize.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_zmalloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_add_timer.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_allocq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_apushm.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_basename.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_bprintf.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_can_unload.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_check_guard.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_check_mem.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_check_mem_region.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_check_q_magic.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_check_region.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_check_umem.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_copyin.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_copyout.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_dec_mod_cnt_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_del_timer.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_dobufcall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_doclose.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_enable_intr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_fattach.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_fdetach.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_fdetach_all.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_fdetach_stream.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_fifo_close_sync.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_fifo_open_sync.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_fifo_write_sync.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_file_inode.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_file_str.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_find_strdev.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_flush_print_buffer.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_fmod_sw.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_freedb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_free_passfp.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_freeq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_fstr_sw.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_get_fifo.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_get_passfp.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_get_pipe.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_inc_mod_cnt_fcn.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_init_bufcall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_in_syscall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_ioc_fattach.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_ioc_fdetach.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_ioc_pipe.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis__kfree.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_kfree.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_kmalloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_kill_pg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_kill_proc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis__kmalloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_loadable_load.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_maj_min_name.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_mark_mem.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_max_mem.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_old_inode.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_open_cnt.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pci_cleanup.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_pipe.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_poll_2_1.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_poll_bits.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_poll_events.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_poll_file.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_print_queues.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_print_spl_track.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_print_stream.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_qattach.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_qdetach.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_queuerun_cnts.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_queues_running.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_recvfd.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_release_mem_region.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_request_mem_region.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_runq_cnts.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_runq_req_cnt.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_sendfd.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_set_file_str.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_setq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_setqsched.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_setqsched_cnts.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_setqsched_isr_cnts.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_stdata_cnt.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_strclose.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_strcount.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_strgetpmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_strioctl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_stropen.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_strputpmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_strread.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_strstats.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_strwrite.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_umount2.9
/usr/share/man/man9/lis_valid_mod_list.9
/usr/share/man/man9/maccompat.9
/usr/share/man/man9/allocbi.9
/usr/share/man/man9/esballoca.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mpnotify.9
/usr/share/info
/usr/share/info/strcompat.info
/usr/share/info/strcompat.info-1
/usr/share/info/strcompat.info-2
/etc
/etc/strcompat.conf
/etc/default
/etc/default/strcompat
/etc/init.d
/etc/init.d/strcompat.sh
/etc/modutils
/lib
/lib/modules
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strcompat
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strcompat/streams_os7compat.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strcompat/streams_svr3compat.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strcompat/streams_svr4compat.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strcompat/streams_mpscompat.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strcompat/streams_suncompat.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strcompat/streams_uw7compat.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strcompat/streams_osfcompat.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strcompat/streams_aixcompat.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strcompat/streams_hpuxcompat.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strcompat/streams_irixcompat.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strcompat/streams_liscompat.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strcompat/streams_maccompat.ko
@end ignore
