'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocindent noautoindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: alloc_proto.9.man,v 0.9.2.5 2005/04/28 11:36:36 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/04/28 11:36:36 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH ALLOC_PROTO 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B alloc_proto
\- allocate control and data message blocks
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SVR3_SOURCE
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *alloc_proto(size_t " psize ", size_t " dsize ", int " type ", " uint " bpri );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I psize
the size of the control part of the message.
.TP
.I dsize
the size of the data part of the message.
.TP
.I type
the message type of the control part of the message.
.TP
.I bpri
the priority of the requested message buffers.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR alloc_proto ()
allocates two message blocks, one to contain a control message and another to
contain a data message.  The control part of the message is of
type
.I type
and size
.IR psize .
The data part of the message is of
type
.BR M_DATA (9)
and of size
.IR dsize .
Both buffers are requested with priority
.IR bpri .
The data message will be linked after the control message using the
.I b_cont
member of the control (initial) message block.
.PP
The
.I bpri
can be one of the following values:
.sp
.TS
expand tab(:);
lb0ls.
BPRI_LO\ \ :requests low priority message buffers.
BPRI_MED\ \ :requests medium priority message buffers.
BPRI_HI\ \ :requests high priority message buffers.
BPRI_WAITOK\ \ :block for low priority message buffers.
.TE
.PP
If
.BR alloc_proto ()
is called with a
.I bpri
other than
.BR BPRI_LO ", " BPR_MED ", " BPRI_HI " or " BPRI_WAITOK ,
the request will be treated as
.BR BPRI_LO .
.PP
The
.I bpri
argument is ignored by many
.IR SVR 4
based implementations.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR alloc_proto ()
is an
.I SVR 3
function.
.B _SVR3_SOURCE
must be defined before including
.I STREAMS
header files to expose the prototype for this function.
Also,
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must have been compiled with kernel configuration parameter
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_SVR3_COMPAT
defined.
.PP
Priority
.B BPRI_WAITOK
is added for
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfdoc
.]
compatibility and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.
.PP
.BR alloc_proto ()
is an
.I SVR 3
.[
svr3
.]
remnant and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
.PP
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers should not rely on the behaviour of the implementation in
response to a particular setting of the
.I bpri
argument.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR alloc_proto ()
returnes a
.BR mblk_t (9)
pointer to the allocated message blocks.  The first allocated message block will have
a data block type of
.I type
and a size of
.IR psize ;
the second allocated message will have a data block type of
.BR M_DATA (9)
and a size of
.IR bsize .
All bands and flags will be cleared on both message and data blocks.
.IR b_rptr " and " b_wptr
will be set to the beginning of the data block buffer a read for both control
and data message blocks.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR alloc_proto ()
will return a
.B NULL
message pointer.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When an error occurs,
.BR alloc_proto ()
will fail and return a
.B NULL
message pointer.
.PP
.BR alloc_proto ()
will only fail if there is insufficient memory to allocate the necessary
data structures for the message blocks, data blocks or data buffers, for the
given values of
.IR psize ", " bsize " and " bpri .
.PP
Failure to allocate a message block is typically followed by a call to
.BR bufcall (9),
or a related callback.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR alloc_proto ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.PP
The priority
.B BPRI_WAITOK
must only be used in a call from a blocking context (i.e. user context).
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR alloc_proto ()
is MP-safe.  The caller has exclusive access to the returned message.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR alloc_proto ()
is a
.IR "SVR 3" -specific
function:
.B _SVR3_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR3
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR3_MODULE
defined.
.PP
.BR alloc_proto ()
performs two separate calls to 
.BR allocb (9)
to acquire the necessary buffers.  If the second call to
.BR allocb (9)
fails, the first buffer is freed.
.PP
See
.BR allocb (9)
for a discussion on the use and implementation of
.IR bpri .
.PP
.BR alloc_proto ()
will fail to allocate a combined message data block
under the same circumstances as
.BR allocb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mblk_t (9),
.BR allocb (9),
.BR freeb (9),
.BR freemsg (9),
.BR bufcall (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR alloc_proto ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR alloc_proto ()
is compatible with
.I SVR 3 STREAMS
.[
svr3spg
.]
and
systems based on
.IR "SVR 3" ,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
This is not a
.I SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI
.[
usldk
.]
function.
.IP \(em
.IR xSTRa \(rg
.[
xstra
.]
provides this function, but initializes
.I b_wptr
to point to the end of each data buffer.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.IR "SVR 3" ;
.[
svr3spg
.]
.IR xSTRa \(rg
documentation.
.[
xstra
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
