'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: apush_vml.9.man,v 0.9.2.14 2008-04-28 16:47:02 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 16:47:02 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: apush_vml.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.14  2008-04-28 16:47:02  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.13  2006/10/10 10:40:50  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.12  2006/10/05 12:15:41  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.11  2006/04/05 09:43:30  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH APUSH_VML 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.BR apush_vml
\- verify a module list
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/sad.h>
.HP
.B int apush_vml(struct str_list
.BI * slp
.B )
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I slp
a pointer to a 
.B str_list
structure containing the list and number of module names.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR apush_vml ()
verifies the module list in the passed in with the
.BR str_list (5)
structure pointer,
.IR slp .
.PP
.I slp
is a pointer to a
.B str_list
structure as follows:
.nf
\fC\s-2
struct str_list {
	int sl_nmods;
	struct str_mlist *sl_modlist;
};
\s+2\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR apush_vml ()
is functionally equivalent to the
.BR SAD_VML
input-output control to the
.BR sad (4)
driver.
The
.BR apush_vml ()
function is a useful way for a driver or module to manipulate the autopush
list associated with a \fISTREAMS\fP driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR apush_vml ()
returns the list of module names and number of names in the
.B str_list
structure.
.PP
Upon failure, 
.BR apush_vml ()
returns
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR apush_vml ()
fails
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR apush_vml ()
can be called from any blocking context, including user context and queue
.IR qi_qopen (9)
and
.IR qi_qclose (9)
routines.
.\"can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures, callouts, callbacks, soft
.\"interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR apush_vml ()
is MP-safe.
The caller must ensure exclusive access to the passed in
.B str_list
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR apush_vml ()
is an
.IR LiS -specific
function.
This symbol is exported primarily in support of the
.I STREAMS Compatibiltiy Modules
package,
.BR strcompat (5).
.\"The macro definition
.\".B _LIS_SOURCE
.\"must be defined before including
.\".I STREAMS
.\"header files to expose the prototype for this function.
.\"Also,
.\".B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.\".[
.\"@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.\".]
.\"must have been compiled with
.\"kernel configuration parameter
.\".BR CONFIG_STREAMS_LIS_COMPAT
.\"defined.
.\".PP
.\".BR apush_vml ()
.\"should not be used by portable
.\".I STREAMS
.\"drivers and modules.
.PP
.BR apush_vml ()
is an internal implementation specific function, and will not be used directly by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
.PP
Calling
.BR apush_vml ()
has the kernel module side-effect that if a \fISTREAMS\fP driver or module associated
with
.I slp
does not currently exists in the system, an attempt will be made to load the
driver or module associated with the driver or module name in
.I slp
before return.
No attempt, however, is made to load any kernel modules associated with the
autopush modules in the list.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sad (4),
.BR str_list (5),
.BR apush_set (9),
.BR apush_get (9),
.BR autopush (9),
.BR autopush_add (9),
.BR autopush_del (9),
.BR autopush_find (9),
.BR autopush_search (9),
.BR autopush_vml (9),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR apush_vml ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR apush_vml ()
is compatible with
.IR LiS ,
.[
lis
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.\"Symbol
.\".BR lis_apush_vml ()
.\"is provided for compatibility with LiS.  See
.\".BR liscompat (9).
.\".BR lis_apush_vml ()
.\"simply calls
.\".BR apush_vml ()
.\"directly.
.\".IP \(em
.I SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.I SVR 4
do not export this function.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
.I SAD
.RI ( STREAMS
Administrative Driver).  See
.BR sad (4).
.BR apush_vml ()
is provided only for compatibility with
.IR LiS ,
and is not subject to standardization.
For the
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
specific function, see
.BR autopush_vml (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.\".PP
.\".BR lis_apush_vml ()
.\"is an LiS-specific function.
.PP
.BR apush_vml ()
is specific to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
