'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: apush_set.9.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/19 07:35:24 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/01/19 07:35:24 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH APUSH_SET 9 "$Date: 2005/01/19 07:35:24 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B apush_set
\- set the autopush list associated with a \fISTREAMS\fP driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _LIS_SOURCE
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/sad.h>
.HP
.BI "int apush_set(struct strapush *" sap );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I sap
a pointer to a
.B strapush
structure describing the \fISTREAMS\fP driver and the autopush list to set.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR apush_set ()
sets the autopush list associated with the \fISTREAMS\fP character device
specified in
.IR sap->sap_major " and " sap->sap_minor
into the module list in the passed in
.B strapush
structure,
.IR sap .
.PP
.I sap
is a pointer to a
.B strapush
structure as follows:
.nf
\fC\s-2
struct strapush {
        unsigned long sap_cmd;
        major_t sap_major;
        minor_t sap_minor;
        minor_t sap_lastminor;
        size_t sap_npush;
        char sap_list[MAXAPUSH][FMNAMESZ + 1];
};
\s+2\fP
.fi
.TP
.I sap_cmd
specifies on call the command to execute when setting the autopush list.
.I sap_cmd
can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B SAP_CLEAR
requests that the autopush list for the \fISTREAMS\fP driver specified by
.I sap_major
and
.I sap_minor
be cleared.
.TP
.B SAP_ONE
requests that the autopush list for the \fISTREAMS\fP driver specified by
.I sap_major
and
.I sap_minor
be set to the modules named in the
.I sap_npush
and
.I sap_list
members.
.TP
.B SAP_RANGE
request that the autopush list for the \fISTREAMS\fP driver specified by the
.I sap_major
and range of minor devices from
.I sap_minor
to
.I sap_lastminor
(inclusive)
be set to the modules named in the
.I sap_npush
and
.I sap_list
members.
.TP
.B SAP_ALL
requests that the autopush list for all minor device of the \fISTREAMS\fP
driver specified by
.I sap_major
be set to the modules named in the
.I sap_npush
and
.I sap_list
members.
.RE
.TP
.I sap_major
on call specifies the major device number of the \fISTREAMS\fP device for
which to set the list of autopush modules; unchanged on return.
.TP
.I sap_minor
on call specifies the minor device number, or initial minor device number in a
range, of the \fISTREAMS\fP device for which to set the list of autopush
modules; unchanged on return.
.I sap_minor
is ignored when
.I sap_cmd
is
.BR SAP_ALL .
.TP
.I sap_lastminor
on call specifies the minor device number, or last minor device in a range for
the \fISTREAMS\fP device for which to set the list of autopush modules;
unchanged on return.
.TP
.I sap_npush
specifies the number of module names in the
.I sap_list
member array; unchanged on return.
.I sap_npush
is ignored when
.I sap_cmd
is
.BR SAP_CLEAR .
.TP
.I sap_list
specifies an array containing
.I sap_npush
module names; unchanged on return.
.I sap_list
is ignored when
.I sap_cmd
is
.BR SAP_CLEAR .
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR apush_set ()
is an
.IR LiS -specific
function.
The macro definition
.B _LIS_SOURCE
must be defined before including
.I STREAMS
header files to expose the prototype for this function.
Also,
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must have been compiled with
kernel configuration parameter
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_LIS_COMPAT
defined.
.PP
.BR apush_set ()
should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR apush_set ()
returns zero (0) and the requested function is performed.
Upon failure,
.BR apush_set ()
leaves the autopush list for the device unchanged and returns a negative error
number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR apush_set ()
returns one of the following negative error numbers:
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I sap->sap_cmd ", " sap->sap_major ", " sap->sap_minor " or " sap->sap_lasminor
were invalid.
.TP
.RB [ ENODEV ]
a \fISTREAMS\fP character special device did not exist for the specified
.I sap->sap_major " and " sap->sap_minor
combination and a kernel module associated with the device was not
successfully loaded.
.TP
.RB [ EEXIST ]
a device was specified that already has an autopush list and the
.I sap_cmd
was not
.BR SAP_CLEAR .
.TP
.RB [ ENOSTR ]
the device specified is not a \fISTREAMS\fP device.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
resources (an autopush list structure) could not be allocated to complete the call.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR apush_set ()
can be called from any context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR apush_set ()
is MP-safe.
The caller is responsible for ensuring exclusive access to the passed in
.B strapush
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR apush_set ()
is functionally equivalent to the
.BR SAD_SAP
ioctl to the
.BR sad (4)
driver.
The
.BR apush_set ()
function is a useful way for a driver or module to manipulate the autopush
list associated with a \fISTREAMS\fP driver.
.PP
Calling
.BR apush_set ()
has the kernel module side-effect that if a \fISTREAMS\fP device associated
with
.I sap->sap_major
and
.I sap->sap_minor
does not currently exist in the system, an attempt will be made to load the
character driver associated with
.I sap->sap_major
before return.
No attempt, however, is made to load any kernel modules associated with the
autopush modules in the list.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR apush_get (9),
.BR sad (4),
.BR autopush_add (9),
.BR autopush_del (9),
.BR autopush_find (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR apush_set ()
is compatible with
.IR LiS ,
.[
lis
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Symbol
.BR lis_apush_set ()
is provided for compatibility with LiS.  See
.BR lisbcm (9).
.BR lis_apush_set ()
simply calls
.BR apush_set ()
directly.
.IP \(em
.I SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.I SVR 4
do not export this function.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
SAD (STREAMS Administrative Driver).  See
.BR sad (4).
.BR apush_set ()
is provided only for compatibility with
.IR LiS .
For the
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
specific function, see
.BR autopush_add (9)
and
.BR autopush_del (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR lis_apush_set ()
is an LiS-specific function.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
