'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: bcanget.9.man,v 0.9.2.12 2006/10/05 12:15:41 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/05 12:15:41 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: bcanget.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.12  2006/10/05 12:15:41  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.11  2006/04/05 09:43:30  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH BCANGET 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B bcanget
\- test for message arrival on a band on a stream
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.BI "int bcanget(queue_t *" q ", int " band ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
The queue to test for message arrival.
.PD 0
.TP
.I band
The queue band within which to test for message arrival.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
implementation extension.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR bcanget ()
tests whether it is possible to retrieve messages from the specified
.I q
for the specified
.IR band .
That is,
.BR bcanget ()
tests whether there exists a message of band number
.I band
on the queue
.IR q .
.PP
.BR bcanget ()
is an internal interface used to support the
.B I_CKBAND
I/O control described under
.BR streamio (7),
and in support of the
.BR poll (2s)
system call.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR bcanget ()
returns true (non-zero) if there is a message waiting for retrieval with
.BR getq (9)
within the band specified by
.IR band .
.BR bcanget ()
returns false (zero) if there is not message waiting within the
.IR band .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR bcanget ()
encounters an error, it fails and returns false (zero).
.BR bcanget ()
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR bcanget ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures, callouts, callbacks, soft
interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR bcanget ()
is MP-safe.  The caller is responsible to determine whether the status of the
queue has changed since the last call to
.BR bcanget ().
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although this function is documented as an internal function of
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4
.]
.BR bcanget ()
is not normally called directly by
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.  It is not part of any
.IR DDI/DKI .
This function is normally internal to the
.I STREAMS
executive, yet,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
provides an exported version of this function for use by driver and modules in
support of direct IO.
.PP
This function should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR streamio (7),
.BR poll (2s),
.BR getq (9),
.BR canget (9),
.BR bcanput (9),
.BR canput (9),
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR liscompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR bcanget ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR bcanget ()
is compatible with
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.\".BR bcanget ()
.\"and the symbol
.\".BR lis_bcanget ()
.\"are provided for compatibility with
.\".IR LiS .
.\".[
.\"lis
.\".]
.\"See
.\".BR liscompat (9).
.\".BR lis_bcanget ()
.\"simply calls
.\".BR bcanget ()
.\"directly.
.\".IP \(em
.BR bcanget ()
should not be called by normal
.I STREAMS
driver or modules and is implementation specific.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR bcanget ()
is compliant with the description of the internal
.BR bcanget ()
function in
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
as described in
.RI \(lq "The Magic Garden Explained"
.[ [\fB
magic
.] \fR].\(rq
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR bcanget ()
is an internal
.I SVR 4
.I STREAMS
function described in
.RI \(lq "The Magic Garden Explained"
.[ [\fB
magic
.] \fR].\(rq
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
