'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: datab.9.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/08/24 08:42:42 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/08/24 08:42:42 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DATAB 9 "$Date: 2004/08/24 08:42:42 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B datab, dblk_t
\- \fISTREAMS\fP data block structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.nf
\fC\s-1
typedef struct free_rtn {
    void (*free_func) (caddr_t);
    caddr_t free_arg;
} frtn_t;

typedef struct datab {
    union {
        struct datab *freep;
        struct free_rtn *frtnp;
    } db_f;
#define         db_freep db_f.freep
#define         db_frtnp db_f.frtnp
    unsigned char *db_base;
    unsigned char *db_lim;
    unsigned char db_ref;       /* shadow reference count */
    unsigned char db_type;
    unsigned char db_iswhat;    /* Mac OT */
    unsigned char db_filler2;   /* Mac OT */
    uint db_size;               /* Mac OT */
    unsigned char *db_msgaddr;  /* Mac OT */
    long db_filler;             /* Mac OT */
    /* Linux Fast-STREAMS specific members */
    atomic_t db_users;          /* actual reference count */
} dblk_t;
/* 18 bytes on 32 bit, 30 on 64 bit */

#define DBLK_REFMIN     0x01    /* Solaris */

#define DB_WASDUPED     0x01    /* UnixWare */
#define DB_2PIECE       0x02    /* UnixWare */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The following members correspond to
.I SVR 4.2 EFT
members:
.TP \w'\ db_msgaddr\ 'u
.I db_freep
When the data block was allocated with
.BR allocb (9),
then this member points to the data buffer that was allocated.
For allocations of data blocks with message sizes less than
.BR FASTBUF ,
this is a pointer to the internal data buffer following the data block.
.TP
.I db_frtnp
When the data block was allocated with
.BR esballoc (9),
then this member points to the internal data buffer where the
.B free_rtn
structure containing the 
.BR free_func ()
and
.B free_arg
are located.
.TP
.I db_base
A pointer to the data buffer, whether internal or external.
.TP
.I db_lim
A pointer one past the end of the data buffer, whether internal or external.
.TP
.I db_ref
The number of references to this data block (from message blocks).
.TP
.I db_type
The type of data block.  The type can be one of the following values:
.RS
.PP
The following are normal messages:
.TP \w'\ M_PCSETOPTS\ 'u
.B QNORM
normal message start
.PD 0
.TP
.B M_DATA
data message
.TP
.B M_PROTO
normal protocol message
.TP
.B M_BREAK
break message
.TP
.B M_PASSFP
pass file pointer message
.TP
.B M_EVENT
event message
.TP
.B M_SIG
signal message
.TP
.B M_DELAY
delay message
.TP
.B M_CTL
control message
.TP
.B M_IOCTL
IO control message
.TP
.B M_SETOPTS
set stream head options message
.TP
.B M_RSE
normal reserved message
.TP
.B M_TRAIL
trail message
.TP
.B M_BACKWASH
backwash direct I/O message
.PD
.PP
The following are priority messages:
.TP \w'\ M_PCSETOPTS\ 'u
.B QPCTL
priority message start
.PD 0
.TP
.B M_IOCACK
IO control acknowledgement message
.TP
.B M_IOCNAK
IO control negative acknowledgement message
.TP
.B M_PCPROTO
priority protocol message
.TP
.B M_PCSIG
priority signal message
.TP
.B M_READ
read message
.TP
.B M_FLUSH
flush message
.TP
.B M_STOP
stop output message
.TP
.B M_START
start output message
.TP
.B M_HANGUP
hangup message
.TP
.B M_ERROR
error message
.TP
.B M_COPYIN
copyin message
.TP
.B M_COPYOUT
copyout message
.TP
.B M_IOCDATA
IO control data message
.TP
.B M_PCRSE
priority reserved message
.TP
.B M_STOPI
stop input message
.TP
.B M_STARTI
start input message
.TP
.B M_PCCTL
priority control message
.TP
.B M_PCSETOPTS
prioirity stream head set options message
.TP
.B M_PCEVENT
prioirity event
.TP
.B M_UNHANGUP
undo hangup message
.TP
.B M_NOTIFY
notification message
.TP
.B M_HPDATA
high priority data message
.TP
.B M_LETSPLAY
let's play direct I/O message
.TP
.B M_DONTPLAY
don't play direct I/O message
.TP
.B M_BACKDONE
backwash done direct I/O message
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I db_iswhat
Indicates whether the message is a normal or priority message.
.TP
.I db_filler2
Padding.
.TP
.I db_size
The size of the data buffer.  This should be the same as the difference
between the
.I db_lim
and
.I db_base
members.
.TP
.I db_msgaddr
.TP
.I db_filler
Padding.
.PP
The following members are
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
specific members:
.TP \w'\ db_msgaddr\ 'u
.I db_users
Because
.B Linux
does not have character sized atomic types, this is an integer atomic type
count equivalent to the
.I db_ref
member.  This private member is used for atomic operations on the reference
count, and then it is copied from here to
.IR db_ref .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
Functions that operate on a message or data block can be called from any
context.  However, it is the caller's responsibility to ensure that the
calling thread has exclusive access to the message block.  When the message
block and associated data block have just been removed from a
.BR queue (9)
in a
.BR put (9)
or
.BR srv (9)
procedure of the queue, message exclusivity is normally guaranteed.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
Functions that access the
.B datab
structure are MP-safe.  However, it is the caller's responsibility to ensure
that exclusive access to the structure before altering any of the members of
the structure.
.PP
Data blocks allocated with
.BR esballoc (9)
may also require the caller to ensure exclusive access to the external data
buffer supplied to the
.BR esballoc (9)
call.
.PP
Duplication of message blocks without copying the data block with functions
such as
.BR dupb (9)
or
.BR dupmsg (9),
may result in multiple threads of execution holding a reference to the same
data block.
To ensure that this condition does not exist, the
.I db_refs
member can be examined to determine whether the reference count is one (1)
indicating that no duplication has occurred, or greater, indicating that
duplication has occurred.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Members of the
.B datab
structure should not be accessed directly by
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers.  Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers should, where possible, use the facilities provided for
implementation and architectural independence.
.PP
The
.I db_ref
member is unreliable and should not be read or written by portable
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers.
The
.IR db_base ", " db_lim " and " db_size
fields should be treated as read-only, and should not be read or written by
portable
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBLITY
.PP
The
.B datab
structure is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP EFT" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
solspg
.]
documents the
.BR M_EVENT " and " M_PCEVENT
data block types.
These data block types are provided for source compatibility with drivers
written for
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc
.]
and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
It might be necessary to define
.B _SUN_SOURCE
before including
.B sys/stream.h
to expose these symbols.
.IP \(em
Only
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
documents the
.BR M_TRAIL ", " M_PCCTL " and " M_PCSETOPTS
data block types.
These data block types are provided for source compatibility with drivers
written for
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
It might be necessary to defined
.B _UW7_SOURCE
before including
.B sys/stream.h
to expose these symbols.
.IP \(em
Only
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
documents the
.BR M_BACKWASH ", " M_LETSPLAY ", " M_DONTPLAY " and " M_BACKDONE
data block types.
These data block types are provided for source compatibility with drivers
written for
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdoc
.]
and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
It might be necessary to define
.B _AIX_SOURCE
before including
.B sys/stream.h
to expose these symbols.
.IP \(em
Only
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfspg
.]
and
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
document the
.B M_NOTIFY
data block type.
This data block type is provided for source compatibility with drivers written
for
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfdoc
.]
or
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
It might be necessary to define
.B _OSF/1
or
.B _HPUX_SOURCE
before including
.B sys/stream.h
to expose this symbol.
.IP \(em
Only
.IR HP-UX \(rg
and
.IR "Mac OT" \(rg
document the
.B M_HPDATA
data block type.
This data block type is provided for source compatibility with drivers written
for
.IR HP-UX \(rg
and
.IR "Mac OT" \(rg,
and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
It might be necessary to define
.B _HPUX_SOURCE
before including
.B sys/stream.h
to expose this symbol.
.IP \(em
Only
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
document the
.B M_UNHANGUP
data block type.
This data block type is provided for source compatibility with drivers written
for
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
and
.IR Solaris \(rg,
and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
It might be necessary to define
.B _OSF_SOURCE
or
.B _SUN_SOURCE
before including
.B sys/stream.h
to expose this symbol.
.IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 EFT" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B datab
structure was introduced in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
