'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: emajor.9.man,v 0.9.2.6 2005/04/23 07:30:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/04/23 07:30:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH EMAJOR 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B emajor
\- get the external (real) major device number from the device number
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _UW7_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "int emajor(dev_t " dev );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I dev
The device number to convert to an external (real) major device number.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR emajor (9),
.BR eminor (9)
and
.BR mkdev (9)
are a group of architectural specific macros intended to supplement the
architectural independent
.I SVR 3
.[
svr3
.]
functions
.BR major (9),
.BR minor (9)
and
.BR makedev (9).
.PP
.BR emajor ()
is an architectural specific macro that obtains the external (real) major
device number associated with device
.IR dev .
.BR major (9),
on the other hand,
will return the external
.I base
major device number associated with device
.IR dev .
.PP
.BR major (9)
supports the concept of extended minor device numbers.
Under extended minor device numbers, a device has a single base major device
number and an extended range of minor device numbers (exceeding 255).
Real device numbers consist of a number of major device numbers and a range of
minor device numbers associated with each major device number from 0 to 255.
.PP
Following is an example contrasting the mapping of external major and minor
device numbers to a base major device number and an extended minor device
number:
.TS
center tab(:);
nn|nn.
_
\fBemajor\fR():\fBeminor\fR():\fBmajor\fR():\fBminor\fR()
_
32:0:32:0
":255:":255
35:0:":256
":255:":511
37:0:":512
":255:":766
_
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR emajor ()
is used by drivers that require knowledge of the external (real) major device
number and for use internal to the
.I STREAMS
executive.
.PP
Normally, a
.I STREAMS
module or driver
.BR qopen (9)
procedure will use the
.BR major (9)
function to obtain the external
.I base
major device number and deal with the assignment of extended minor device
numbers using the
.BR minor (9)
and
.BR makedevice (9)
functions.
.PP
The
.BR emajor ()
.IR "SVR 3" -style
architecture dependent macro is obsolete and should be replaced in
portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules with a call to the
.I "SVR 4"
architecture independent
.I getemajor ()
function call.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR emajor ()
returns the external (real) base major device number associated with device
.IR dev .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR emajor ()
is always successful.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR emajor ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR emajor ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR emajor ()
is a
.I SVR 3
specific macro:
.BR _UW7_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_UW7
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_UW7_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR major (9),
.BR minor (9),
.BR makedev (9),
.BR emajor (9),
.BR eminor (9),
.BR mkdev (9),
.BR getmajor (9),
.BR getminor (9),
.BR makedevice (9),
.BR getemajor (9),
.BR geteminor (9),
.BR etoimajor (9),
.BR itoemajor (9),
.BR ddi_driver_major (9),
.BR ddi_getiminor (9),
.BR ddi_create_minor_node (9),
.BR ddi_remove_minor_node (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR emajor ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR emajor ()
is compatible with
.I SVR 4.2 DDI/DKI
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR emajor ()
is an
.B extern inline
function call.
.I SVR 3
implements
.BR emajor ()
as a system dependent macro.
.IP \(em
.I SVR 3
includes
.B sys/sysmacros.h
instead of
.BR sys/ddi.h .
.IP \(em
.BR emajor ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.I SVR 3
for the purpose of porting
.I SVR 3
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR "SVR 4" ,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR emajor ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.I SVR 3
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.  Any and all functionality provided by
.BR emajor ()
in support of
.RB non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR SCO \(rg
ODDI documentation.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.[
uw7spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR emajor ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
