'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: getadmin.9.man,v 0.9.2.8 2005/07/04 19:28:44 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/07/04 19:28:44 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strcompat.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH GETADMIN 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B getadmin
\- get the administration function pointer for a \fISTREAMS\fR module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
int (*\fBgetadmin\fR(modID_t \fImid\fR))();
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I mid
Module ID.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR getadmin ()
returns a pointer to the administration function as indicated by the
.I qi_qadmin
member of the
.BR qinit (9)
structure for the module.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Returns a pointer to the administration function for that module, or
.B NULL
if no driver or module has the given identifier.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR getadmin ()
fails it returns
.BR NULL .
.BR getadmin ()
fails when there is no module or driver for the given module Id.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR getadmin ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
When called from a blocking context,
.BR getadmin ()
has the side-effect that the identified module may be loaded by module
identifier.  The kernel module demand loaded will have the module name or
alias
.RB \*(lq streams-modid-\fI%u\fP \*(rq,
where
.RI \*(lq %u \*(rq
is the identifier of the
.I STREAMS
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR getadmin ()
is MP-save; however, it is the caller's responsibility to ensure that the
module or driver has not unloaded before dereferencing the resulting function
pointer.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR getadmin ()
first searches the character device table
.RB ( cdevsw )
for a
.I STREAMS
device with the same module identifier, then the pushable
.I STREAMS
module table
.RB ( fmodsw ).
.PP
The module identifier is held in the
.I mi_idnum
member of the
.BR module_info (9)
structure pointed to by the
.I qi_minfo
of the
.B qinit (9)
structure, which is usually hard coded for each driver or module.  The module
identifier should be a unique number for each device or module.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR getmid (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR getadmin ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR getadmin ()
is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr4spg
.]
and systems based on
.I "SVR 4.2"
such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR UnixWare \(rg
show the
.I mid
argument of type
.BR ushort_t .
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
document this function with
.I mid
of type
.BR ushort .
.IP \(em
.IR LiS \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
do not document this function.
.IP \(em
Under
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
.I mid
is of type
.BR modID_t ,
which reduces to
.BR ushort .
.IP \(em
.BR getadmin ()
is provided for source compatibility with older versions of
.IR STREAMS .
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42spg
.]
and
.IR AIX \(rg ,
.IR HP-UX \(rg ,
.IR UnixWare \(rg 
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
documentation.
.[
aixspg
.]
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.[
uw7spg
.]
.[
uxpdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR getadmin ()
appears as part of
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR getadmin ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
