'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: getmid.9.man,v 0.9.2.5 2005/04/28 01:25:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/04/28 01:25:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH GETMID 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B getmid
\- get the \fISTREAMS\fR module id for a name
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
modID_t \fBgetmid\fR(const char *\fIname\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I name
The name of the module.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR getmid ()
returns the module identifier for the named driver or module.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR getmid ()
returns the module identifier of the driver or module corresponding to
.I name 
or, if no driver or module corresponds to
.IR name ,
.BR getmid ()
returns zero (0).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR getmid ()
returns the module identifier of the module corresponding to
.IR name ,
or zero (0)
if
.I name
does not correspond to a module.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR getmid ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
When called from a blocking context,
.BR getmid ()
has the side-effect that the named module may be loaded by module name.  The
kernel module demand loaded will have the module name or alias
.RB \*(lq streams-\fI%s\fP \*(rq,
where
.RI \*(lq %s \*(rq
is the name of the
.I STREAMS
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR getmid ()
is MP-safe; however, it is the caller's responsibility to ensure that the
module is not unloaded and reloaded with a different module id.  Normally
.I STREAMS
modules have statically assigned module identifiers, so this should not
present a problem.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.PP
.BR getmid ()
first searches the character device table
.RB ( cdevsw )
for a
.I STREAMS
device with the same name, then the pushable
.I STREAMS
module table
.RB ( fmodsw ).
.PP
The module name is held in the
.I mi_idname
member of the
.BR module_info (9)
structure pointed to by the
.I qi_minfo
of the
.B qinit (9)
structure, which is usually hard coded for each driver or module.  The module
name should be unique across drivers and modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR getadmin (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR getmid ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.PP
.BR getmid ()
is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr4spg
.]
and systems based on
.I "SVR 4.2"
such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR UnixWare \(rg
show the return value of type
.BR ushort_t ,
and the type of
.I name
as
.RB ( "char *" ).
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
document this function with return value
of type
.BR ushort .
.IP \(em
.IR LiS \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
do not document this function.
.IP \(em
Under
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
the return value is of type
.BR modID_t ,
which reduces to
.BR ushort ,
and a
.I name
type of
.RB ( "const char *" ).
.IP \(em
.BR getmid ()
is provided for source compatibility with older versions of
.IR STREAMS .
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42spg
.]
and
.IR AIX \(rg ,
.IR HP-UX \(rg ,
.IR UnixWare \(rg 
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
documentation.
.[
aixspg
.]
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.[
uw7spg
.]
.[
uxpdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR getmid ()
appears as part of
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR getmid ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
