'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: GetOTInstallInfo.9.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/03/30 11:57:07 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/30 11:57:07 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: GetOTInstallInfo.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/03/30 11:57:07  brian
.\" - new manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/10/06 12:13:05  brian
.\" - updated manual pages to pass make check and for release
.\" - updated release files for release
.\" - added missing MacOT OSF/1 and MPS compatibility functions
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/10/05 12:15:44  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:33  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH GetOTInstallInfo 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B GetOTInstallInfo
\- \fISTREAMS\fR Open Transport Install Information
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _MAC_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/macddi.h>
.HP
.B struct install_info *GetOTInstallInfo(void);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B GetOTInstallInfo
returns a pointer to the module's or driver's
.B install_info
structure.  The
.B install_info
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct install_info {
    struct streamtab *install_str;
    uint32_t install_flags;
    uint32_t install_sqlvl;
    char *install_buddy;
    void *ref_load;
    uint32_t ref_count;
};
\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B install_info
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I install_str
A pointer to the
.BR streamtab (9)
structure definining the
.I STREAMS
driver or module.
.TP
.I install_flags
Provides a means for the module or driver to specify flags given specifics
aboud the module or driver.  The defined flags are as follows:
.sp
.RS
.TP
.B kOTModIsDriver
Specifies that the
.I STREAMS
module is (pseudo-)device driver.
.PD 0
.TP
.B kOTModIsModule
Sepcifies taht the
.I STREAMS
module is a pushable module.
.TP
.B kOTModUpperIsTPI
Specifies that the upper service interface supports the Transport Provider Interface
(TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7).
.TP
.B kOTModUpperIsDLPI
Specifies that the upper service interface supports the Data Link Provider Interface
(DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7).
.TP
.B kOTModLowerIsTPI
Specifies that the lower service interface supports the Transport Provider Interface
(TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7).
.TP
.B kOTModLowerIsDLPI
Specifies that the lower service interface supports the Data Link Provider Interface
(DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7).
.TP
.B kOTModGlobalContext
Specifies that the module requires that variables global within the module be
exported outside the module (to other modules, for example).
.TP
.B kOTModUsesInterrupts
Only valid if
.B kOTModISDriver
is also set, this flag indicates that the driver uses interrupts.
.TP
.B kOTModIsComplexDriver
Only valid if
.B kOTModISDriver
is also set, this flag indicates that the driver follows a complex model.
.TP
.B kOTModIsFilter
Only valid if
.B kOTModISModule
is also set, this flag indicates that the module simply filters messages.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I install_sqlvl
The syncrhonization level applicable to the driver or module.  The
syncrhoniation level can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B SQLVL_QUEUE
Each Stream that is an instance of the module can only have one execution
thread associated with the read queue (executing a queue put or service
procedure) and one execution thread associated with the write queue (executing
a queue put or service procedure).
.IP ""
Although the
.IR MacOT \(rg
documentation
.[
macspg
.]
says that
.BR mps_become_writer (9)
is very expensive at this level of syncrhonization,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implements a outer barrier that is entered shared by each thread and
.BR mps_become_writer (9)
simply enters this outer barrier exclusive, without hardly any expense at all.
.TP
.B SQLVL_QUEUEPAIR
.IP ""
Although the
.IR MacOT \(rg
documentation
.[
macspg
.]
says that
.BR mps_become_writer (9)
is very expensive at this level of syncrhonization,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implements a outer barrier that is entered shared by each thread and
.BR mps_become_writer (9)
simply enters this outer barrier exclusive, without hardly any expense at all.
.TP
.B SQLVL_MODULE
The module can only be entered once by one thread of execution.
.IP ""
.BR mp_become_writer (9)
is not needed at this level.
.TP
.B SQLVL_GLOBAL
Only one thread of execution can exist within all modules specifying this
level of synchronization.  (This is in contrast with
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
that single threads all of streams if
.I any
module implements this level.)
.IP ""
.BR mp_become_writer (9)
is not needed at this level.
.TP
.B SQLVL_SPLITMODULE
Only one thread of execution is allowed to enter the entire module for the
read queue of any Stream in the module, and another thread of execution is
allowed to enter the entire module for the write queue of any Stream in the
modue.  The original purpose of this sycnrhonization mode was to simlulate
.B SQLVL_QUEUE
synchronization without the attendant limitations of the
.IR MacOT \(rg
.[
macspg
.]
inefficient
.BR mps_become_writer (9)
implementation.
.IP ""
Although the
.IR MacOT \(rg
documentation
.[
macspg
.]
says that
.BR mps_become_writer (9)
is less expensive at this level of syncrhonization,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implements a outer barrier that is entered shared by each thread and
.BR mps_become_writer (9)
simply enters this outer barrier exclusive, without hardly any expense at all.
.PP
Note that the syncrhonization levels of
.BR SQLVL_ELSEWHERE
are not fully supported: see
.IR install_buddy ,
below.
.RE
.TP
.I install_buddy
In a fashion similar to the
.BR SQLVL_ELSEWHERE
syncrhonization provided by other implementations,
.I MacOT
permits two or more modules to share syncrhonization.  The
.I install_sqlvl
is set to
.BR SQLVL_MODULE
and then each module specifies another of the modules in the group in a ring.
For example, if modules A, B and C are to be grouped together, A specifies B
as a buddy, B specifies C as a buddy and C specifies A as a buddy.  In this
fashion, arbitrary numbers of modules can be grouped into a group.
.TP
.I ref_load
Used by Open Transport, initialize to zero.
.TP
.I ref_count
Used by Open Transport, initialize to zero.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Registration of kernel modules or loadable
.I STREAMS
drivers an modules takes to distinct approaches:
.IP (a) \w'(m)\(em'u
When the module loads, the kernel calls a general purpose initialization
function provided by the module that then calls kernel registration functions
as necessary and returns success or failure.
When the module is to be unloaded, the kernel calls a general purpose
termination function provided by the module than then calls kernel
deregistration function as necessary and then returns.
.IP ""
This approach is characterized by the kernel providing specific purpose
registration and deregistration functions and the module only providing a
general purpose initialization and termination function.
This approach is also characterized by the fact that if a specific
registration function changes, in most cases every driver must also change.
.IP (b)
When the module loads, the kernel calls specific purpose functions to achieve
its purposes in loading the module.
When the module is to be unloaded, the kernel calls specific purpose functions
to achieve termination before unloading the module.
.IP ""
This approach is characterized by the kernel providing a general purpose
initialization and termination function and the module providing specific
functions invoked by the kernel to achieve the kernel's purposes in loading
modules of a specific type.
This approach is also characterized by the fact that if a specific
initialization function changes, in most cases only the kernel need change.
.PP
.IR MacOT \(rg,
similar to
.IR Solaris \(rg
in this respect,
follows approach "(b)" above.
The
.BR GetOTInstallInfo ()
or
.BI GetOT xxxxxxxx InstallInfo \fR()
function (where
.I xxxxxxxx
is the name of the module or driver) is provided by the
.I STREAMS
module or driver.  The
.I STREAMS
executive invokes this entry point into the module or driver when the object
associated with the module or driver is loaded, the result of which is used to
register the module or driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR GetOTInstallInfo ()
succeeds, it returns 
a pointer to the
.I STREAMS
module or driver
.BR install_info
structure; when it fails, it
returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR GetOTInstallInfo ()
fails when corresponding driver or module does not exist or resources could
not be allocated to initialize the module or driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR GetOTInstallInfo ()
can be called from any context, but is normally called when a kernel module is
loaded (i.e. at process context).
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR msp_become_writer ()
is MP-safe and was intended to support MP-safe operation in the SMP
environment.
.PP
Considerations should be given when writing the call-out function that the
function may execute in parallel with asynchronous entry points, callbacks,
call-outs and interrupt service procedures.
.PP
However, in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
the call-out function is scheduled on the same CPU and the CPU which called
.BR GetOTInstallInfo ().
This means that
.BR GetOTInstallInfo ()
will return before the call-out function executes when called on the ICS.
Also, when called on the ICS, the call-out function will not execute before
the calling function returns or the next preemption point is encountered.
.PP
When called from any other context, the call-out function will execute before
the call returns.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR GetOTInstallInfo ()
is a
.IR MacOT \(rg-specific
function:
.B _MAC_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
uses
a single mechanism,
.BR register_strdev (9)
and
.BR register_strmod (9),
for supporting all registration functions such as
.BR GetOTInstallInfo ().
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR register_strdev (9),
.BR register_strmod (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
.BR mp-streams (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR GetOTInstallInfo ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR GetOTInstallInfo ()
is compatible with
.IR MacOT \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR GetOTInstallInfo ()
is an
.IR MacOT \(rg-specific
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
.IP \(em
.BR GetOTInstallInfo ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR MacOT \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR MacOT \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
differ from that of
.IR MacOT \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR GetOTInstallInfo ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR MacOT \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR GetOTInstallInfo ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR maccompat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR MacOT \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
macotr
.]
.[
macspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR GetOTInstallInfo ()
first appeared in
.IR MacOT \(rg.
.BR GetOTInstallInfo ()
is probably a Mentat, Inc. function that goes all the way back to the
.RI pre- OSF/1
.I Mentat
implementations.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
