'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: lfscompat.9.man,v 0.9.2.4 2006/10/05 12:15:42 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/05 12:15:42 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: lfscompat.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/10/05 12:15:42  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/04/05 09:43:32  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH LFSCOMPAT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B lfscompat
\- \fBLinux Fast-STREAMS\fP LfS Compatibility Module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _LFS_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides a compatibility module,
.I streams-lfscompat
that provides compatibility functions that smooth porting of drivers from the
.I LiS-2.18.x
.I STREAMS
environment to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
The functions provided by this compatibility module are described here.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.I LfS Compatibility Module
is a
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
LfS
.]
The
.I LfS Compatibility Module
is provided for source compatibility with
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules compiled as
.B Linux
kernel modules.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Many of the symbols provided by
.I LiS
are inefficient wrappers for
.B Linux
kernel functions.
New
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should always be compiled against
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
and
.I Linux
symbols for performance and efficiency.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Many of the SVR 4.2
.I STREAMS
functions provided by
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
contain bugs.  The symbols provided by the
.I LfS Compatibility Module
are not bug-for-bug compatible with
.I LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
This means that incorrect
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules that appear to run
correctly under
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
may fail to operate with the
.IR "LfS Compatibility Module" .
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I LiS
can permit erroneous
.I STREAMS
functions to appear to run correctly.
Conversely,
.I LfS Compatibility Module
functions are unforgiving of being passed
.B NULL
pointers and out of range arguments.
This means that incorrect
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules that appear to run
correctly under
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
may fail to operate with the
.IR "LfS Compatibility Module" .
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
For usage an example of the various functions, see the individual manual pages.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH RETURN
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH "ERROR HANDLING"
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
These functions can be executed from various contexts as described in each separate manual page.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
Most of these functions are MP-safe; however, see the separate manual pages.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B _LFS_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose
.IR LFS \(rg-specific
symbols.
To use
.IR LFS \(rg-specific
functions,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_LFS
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_LFS_MODULE
defined.
When compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_LFS
defined,
.IR LFS \(rg
compatibility will become part of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.I streams
kernel module.
When compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_LFS_MODULE
defined,
.IR LFS \(rg
compatibility will be placed in a separate
.I streams-lfscompat
kernel module that will demand load when any
.I STREAMS
driver or module that uses the
.IR LFS \(rg-specific
functions loads.
.PP
The
.I streams-lfscompat
module is only built when building the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package with
.IR LiS ;
otherwise, these functions are provided by the core
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.I streams
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.IR LFS \(rg
compatibility suite has no known bugs.
.I LiS
has many known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
These functions are compatible with
.IR LFS \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
These functions are
.IR LFS \(rg-specific
and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The more common
.I SVR 4.2 MP
functions should be used in their stead.
.IP \(em
.IR LFS \(rg-specific
functions are provided for source level compatibility with
.IR LFS \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR LFS \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR LFS \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.IR LFS \(rg-specific
functions only provide functionality comparable to
.IR LFS \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.IR LFS \(rg-specific
functions in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
.IR LFS \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
These functions
first appeared in
.IR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
