'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: merror.9.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/10/05 12:15:42 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/05 12:15:42 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: merror.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/10/05 12:15:42  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:43:33  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MERROR 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B merror
\- pass a \fISTREAMS\fR \fBM_ERROR\fR message upstream
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strsun.h>
.HP
void \fBmerror\fR(queue_t *\fIq\fR, mblk_t *\fImp\fR, int \fIerror\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'error\ \ 'u
.I q
the write-side queue pointer passed to the write-side queue
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure from which
.BR merror ()
is called.
.TP
.I mp
a message pointer to a message block to be reused to generate a
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message upstream.
.TP
.I error
the error number to place in the generated
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR merror ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg
helper function that can be used to generate a
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message upstream.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR merror ()
is normally called from a
.I STREAMS
driver or module write-side
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure to generate a
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message upstream ot error out a stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR merror ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR merror ()
always succeeds; however, if passed an invalid pointer or argument,
.BR merror ()
could destabilize the kernel or result in a kernel panic.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example is a write-side queue
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure processing fragment:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1
switch (mp->b_datap->db_type) {
 ...
case M_PROTO:
{
    union T_primitives *p = (typeof(p)) mp->b_rptr;
    switch (p->type) {
    ...
    case T_DISCON_REQ:
        merror(q, mp, EPROTO);
        return 0;
    ...
    }
}
 ...
}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR merror ()
can be called from any non-interrupt context, but is normally called from a
.I STREAMS
driver or module write-side
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR merror ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller is responsible for ensuring exclusive access to the passed in
message block.  This is normally the case when
.BR merror ()
is called from a
.I STREAMS
driver or module write-side
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure and the passed in message pointer is that which
was passed into the procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR merror ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function:
.B _SUN_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
For the sake of speed,
.BR merror ()
does not check whether the passed in message block was allocated using
.BR esballoc (9).
.BR merror ()
must not be passed such a message block.  Message blocks passed to
.BR merror ()
should be normal message blocks allocated with
.BR allocb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mexchange (9),
.BR mexpandb (9),
.BR suncompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR merror ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR merror ()
is compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR merror ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function that should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Direct allocation and manipulation of the message blocks using standard
.I STREAMS
utility functions should be performed in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR merror ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR Solaris \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR Solaris \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR merror ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR Solaris \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR merror ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR suncompat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.[
soldoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR merror ()
first appeared in
.IR Solaris \(rg
2.5.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
