'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=100
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mi_allocb.9.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-28 16:47:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 16:47:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mi_allocb.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-28 16:47:03  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/03/04 21:20:45  brian
.\" - completed documentation
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/02/14 14:08:03  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MI_ALLOCB 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mi_allocb
\- reliably allocate a message block
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _MPS_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mpsddi.h>
.HP
.BI "int \fRmi_allocb(\fPqueue_t *" q ", size_t " size ", int " priority \fR)\fP;
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue to reschedule when a buffer becomes available (if one is not immediately available).
.TP
.I size
the size of the buffer to allocate, in the same manner as the
.I size
argument to
.BR allocb (9).
.TP
.I priority
the priority of the allocation request, in the same manner as the
.I priority
argument to
.BR allocb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
DDI.
.PP
.I "Linux Fast-STREAMS"
specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mi_allocb ()
is a reliable buffer allocation function that can be used with the functions from the
.BR mi_open_comm (9)
family.
.PP
In contrast to the DDI/DKI function,
.BR allocb (9),
.BR mi_allocb ()
takes an extra argument,
.IR q ,
a pointer to the queue to schedule (with
.BR qenable (9))
when a buffer of size,
.IR size ,
and priority,
.IR priority ,
becomes available.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR mi_allocb ()
is used to simplify and make more efficient the handling of buffer callbacks when allocating message
blocks within a
.I STREAMS
module or driver.
.BR mi_allocb ()
can be used throughout the driver or module from the
.I STREAMS
synchronous environment, whenever a message block would otherwise be allocated using
.BR allocb (9).
.BR mi_allocb ()
is called instead, an passed the queue,
.IR q ,
for which an active message is being processed by a put or service procedure.
.PP
When
.BR mi_allocb ()
fails to allocate a message block, it returns
.B NULL
and schedules a buffer callback that will enable queue,
.IR q ,
when a buffer becomes available.
The caller can then simply place the message being processed on its receiving queue,
.IR q ,
and return.  The queue,
.IR q ,
service procedure will be invoked when a buffer is available and the message taken off of the queue
for processing once again.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When the buffer allocation is successful,
.BR mi_allocb ()
functions identical to
.BR allocb (9),
and returns a pointer to the newly allocated buffer.
When the buffer allocation fails,
.BR mi_allocb ()
returns
.B NULL
and generates a buffer callback for the queue,
.IR q .
When the buffer callback is executed, the queue,
.IR q ,
is enabled using
.BR qenable (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR mi_allocb (9)
always succeeds; however, whether a buffer was immediately allocated depends on the return value.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
Following is an example of the use of
.BR mi_allocb ().
In the example, a zero-length
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is appended to all
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks received on a Stream.
.nf
\fC\s-2
  1  int streamscall
  2  xxx_rput(queue_t *q, mblk_t *mp)
  3  {
  4      mblk_t *pp;
  5  
  6      if (!pcmsg(DB_TYPE(mp)) && (q->q_first || (q->q_flag & QSVCBUSY))) {
  7          putq(q, mp);
  8          return (0);
  9      }
 10  
 11      switch (DB_TYPE(mp)) {
 12      case M_DATA:
 13          if (!(pp = mi_allocb(q, 0, BPRI_MED))) {
 14              putq(q, mp);
 15              break;
 16          }
 17          if (!canpuntext(q)) {
 18              freeb(pp);
 19              putq(q, mp);
 20              break;
 21          }
 22          DB_TYPE(pp) = M_PROTO;
 23          pp->b_cont = mp;
 24          putnext(q, pp);
 25          break;
 26      case...:
 27          ...;
 28      }
 29      return (0);
 30  }

 31  int streamscall
 32  xxx_rsrv(queue_t *q)
 33  {
 34      mblk_t *mp;
 35  
 36      while ((mp = getq(q))) {
 37          switch (DB_TYPE(mp)) {
 38          case M_DATA:
 39              if (!(pp = mi_allocb(q, 0, BPRI_MED))) {
 40                  putbq(q, mp);
 41                  break;
 42              }
 43              if (!canputnext(q)) {
 44                  freeb(pp);
 45                  putbq(q, mp);
 46                  break;
 47              }
 48              DB_TYPE(pp) = M_PROTO;
 49              pp->b_cont = mp;
 50              putnext(q, pp);
 51              break;
 52              case...;
 53              ...;
 54          }
 55          break;
 56      }
 57      return (0);
 58  }
\s+2\fP
.fi
.PP
In the example, when a buyffer cannot be immediately allocated with
.BR mi_allocb (),
the caller simply places the message to be processed on the queue,
.IR q ,
and returns.  The queue,
.IR q ,
will have its service procedured scheduled, using
.BR qenable (9),
when a buffer is available and processing of the message can continue.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mi_allocb ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and
interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR mi_allocb ()
is MP-safe, however, see
.BR allocb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mi_allocb ()
is an
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
function:
.BR _MPS_SOURCE ", " _AIX_SOURCE ", " _MAC_SOURCE " or _SUN_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS ", " CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS_MODULE ", "
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX ", " CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX_MODULE ", "
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC ", " CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC_MODULE ", "
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN " or " CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN_MODULE
defined.
.PP
Because
.BR mi_allocb ()
store a buffer callback identifier in the module private structure for queue,
.IR q ,
.BR mi_allocb ()
cannot be called for a queue pair that has not had its private structure allocated with one of the
.BR mi_open_comm (9)
family of functions.
.PP
Because
.BR mi_allocb ()
utilizes
.BR allocb (9)
and
.BR bufcall (9),
many of the caveats that apply to those functions also apply to
.BR mi_allocb ().
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The
.BR mi_allocb ()
function is implemented with a rather direct call to
.BR allocb (9)
and a call to
.BR bufcall (9)
with the queue pointer,
.IR q ,
upon failure of the call to
.BR allocb (9)
to immediately allocate a buffer.
Because the buffer callback must be cancelled before returning from the STREAM close procedure, the
buffer callback identifier is saved in the module private structure.  Because this is automatic,
.BR mi_allocb ()
can only be called on Streams that have their private data structures allocated with one of the
.BR mi_open_comm (9)
family of functions.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR allocb (9),
.BR bufcall (9),
.BR mi_bufcall (9),
.BR mi_open_comm (9),
.BR mpscompat (9),
.BR aixcompat (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mi_allocb ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR mi_allocb ()
is
compatible with
.IR MPS \(rg,
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR MacOT \(rg,
and
.IR Solaris \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR mi_allocb ()
is an OpenSS7 Project specific implemetnation of an
.IR MPS \(rg-compatible
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_allocb ()
is provided for use with SS7 drivers and modules that need some automatic handling of buffer
callbacks for speed and efficiency.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_allocb ()
does not exist in any other
.IR MPS \(rg
implementation other than
.IR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
See
.BR mpscompat (9),
.BR aixcompat (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
.BR suncompat (9),
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Conforms to
.B OpenSS7
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR mi_allocb ()
is new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
It is largely equivalent to the
.BR ss7_allocb (9)
SS7 common function that appeared in early releases of the
.B strss7
package and is also contained in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
