'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mi_first_dev_ptr.9.man,v 0.9.2.4 2006/10/05 12:15:43 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/05 12:15:43 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mi_first_dev_ptr.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/10/05 12:15:43  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/04/05 09:43:33  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MI_FIRST_DEV_PTR 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mi_first_dev_ptr
\- find the first \fISTREAMS\fR device private structure pointer
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _MPS_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mpsddi.h>
.HP
caddr_t \fBmi_first_dev_ptr\fR(caddr_t *\fIhead\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I head
a pointer to the statically allocated
.B caddr_t
pointer that was used to add instances to the list with convenience functions such as
.BR mi_open_comm (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
DDI.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
is a
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
convenience function that assists without housekeeping during
.I STREAMS
driver or module
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.BR I_LINK (7),
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
or
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
.BR I_PUNLINK (7),
operations.
The
.IR MPS \(rg
convenience functions, including
.BR mi_open_comm (9)
and
.BR mi_close_comm (9),
maintain a list of
.I STREAMS
driver or module instances in a list global to the driver or module.
Both pushable module instances as well as device driver instances can be maintained in the same list.
.PP
Pushable module instances are those instances that were added to the list with
.I sflag
equal to
.B MODOPEN
on a call to
.BR mi_open_comm (9).
Device driver instances are those instances that we added to the list with
.I sflag
equal to
.BR CLONEOPEN " or " DRVOPEN
on a call to
.BR mi_open_comm (9).
.PP
When both pushable module instances and device driver instances are maintained by the
.I STREAMS
driver in the same list,
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
can be used to find the first device driver instance in the list.
.BR mi_next_dev_ptr (9)
can then be used to iterate through the device driver instances in the list.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
is used when the caller wishes to iterate through only the device driver instances on a
.I STREAMS
driver or module global instance list.
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
is passed the same statically allocated
.I head
pointer that was passed to functions such as
.BR mi_open_comm (9)
that added instances to the list.
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
returns
.B NULL
if there is no device driver instance on the list, or returns a pointer to the private structure of
the first device instance on the list.
It is then possible to iterate throught the device instances on the list by passing the pointer
returned by
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
to
.BR mi_next_dev_ptr (9)
to obtain the next device driver instance on the list, or
.B NULL
if there is no subsequent device driver instance, and so on.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
succeeds, it returns a pointer to the private instance data
.RI ( q->q_ptr )
associated with first device driver instance on the global list;
when it fails, it returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
is always successful.  However, when passed an invalid pointer or a pointer to an invalid structure,
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
might destabilize the kernel or cause an immediate or delayed kernel panic.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Following is an example of the use of
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
and
.BR mi_next_dev_ptr ()
used to find a specific device instance on the instance list.
.RS 0.25i
.nf
\fC\s-1
typedef struct priv {
    ulong some_flag;
} priv_t;

static caddr_t xxx_head = NULL;

int
xxx_open(queue_t *q, dev_t *devp, int flag,
         int sflag, cred_t *crp)
{
    return mi_open_comm(&xxx_head, sizeof(priv_t),
                        q, devp, flag, sflag, crp);
}

int
xxx_close(queue_t *q, int oflag, cred_t *crp)
{
    return mi_close_comm(&xxx_head, q);
}

int
xxx_exit(void)
{
    caddr_t p;
    for (p = mi_first_dev_ptr(&xxx_head);
         p; p = mi_next_dev_ptr(p)) {
        priv_t *priv = (priv_t *) p;
        if (p->some_flag)
            do_some_thing(priv);
        kill_with_prejudice(priv);
    }
}

module_exit(xxx_exit);
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
can be called from any context, but is normally called from within a
.I STREAMS
driver
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
is not MP-safe; no protection is afforded to the list entry.  An iterator taken in this fashion can
be invalidated without the caller's knowledge.  It is the responsibility of the caller to protect
the validity of the instance while it is in use.  While there are some utilities in
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
that can provide assistance; there is little mention of their use in the
.IR MPS \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
is an
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
function:
.BR _MPS_SOURCE ,
.B _AIX_SOURCE
or
.B _MAC_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
must also have been compiled with
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS_MODULE ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX_MODULE ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
implementation of these functions maintain the module instances and the driver instances in the same
global list; however, list elements are sorted with respect to their device driver numbers.  Modules
are added to the list with a zero
.RB ( 0 )
major device number and the next available minor device number.  This places module instances ahead
of device driver instances in the list.
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
simply iterates down the list looking for the first instance with a non-zero major device number and
that is the first device driver instance in the list.
.PP
The
.IR MPS \(rg
open and close convenience functions can also be used when a stream is linked under (open) or
unlinked from (close) a multiplexing driver.  These instances should use the linkid as the device
number and should be maintained in a global (ilink) list separate from the primary (open) list.
Because multiplexing driver links lists use an arbitrary linkid,
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
will not work on those lists.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mi_open_comm (9),
.BR mi_close_comm (9),
.BR mi_first_ptr (9),
.BR mi_next_dev_ptr (9),
.BR mpscompat (9),
.BR aixcompat (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
is
compatible with
.IR MPS \(rg,
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR MacOT \(rg,
and
.IR Solaris \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Very little documentation exists on the proper use of
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
and
.BR mi_next_dev_ptr (9).
If the user really wishes to keep module instances and driver instances, they should be kept in
separate global open lists and the better documented
.BR mi_first_ptr (9)
and
.BR mi_next_ptr (9)
used instead.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
is an
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Standard
.I STREAMS
and system utility functions should be used in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR MPS \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR MPS \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR MPS \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR MPS \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR mpscompat (9),
.BR aixcompat (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR MPS \(rg
DDI documentation,
.IR MacOT \(rg
DDI documentation,
.[
macotr
.]
.[
macspg
.]
.IR AIX \(rg
documentation.
.[
aixcpc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
first appeared in
.IR MPS \(rg.
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
is a
Mentat, Inc. function that goes all the way back to the
.RI pre- OSF/1
.I Mentat
implementations.
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
appears in
.IR MacOT \(rg
.[
macspg
.]
and
.IR AIX \(rg.
.[
aixcpc
.]
An undocumented version of
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr ()
appears in
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
