'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mi_prev_ptr.9.man,v 0.9.2.7 2006/04/05 09:43:33 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:33 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mi_prev_ptr.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/05 09:43:33  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MI_PREV_PTR 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mi_prev_ptr
\- \fISTREAMS\fP minor device list traversal
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _AIX_SOURCE
.br
.B #define _MAC_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
caddr_t \fBmi_prev_ptr\fR(caddr_t \fIstate\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I state
The state pointer to the current list item.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
is used to traverse module's list of open streams.  The
.I state
argument specifies the address of a per-instance list item, and the return
value indicates the address of the previous item.  The first time
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
is called, the
.I state
argument should be initialized with the value of the static pointer that was
passed to the
.BR mi_open_comm (9)
utility.
Subsequent calls to
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
should pass the address which was returned by the previous call, until a
.B NULL
address is returned, indicating that the end of the list has been reached.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
succeeds, it returns a pointer to the previous state;
when it fails, it returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
fails when it hits the end of the list.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
is not safe from deletions.  A separate mutex or semaphore is required by the
caller to protect the list from deletions between calls to
.BR mi_prev_ptr ().
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
is a
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
and
.IR MacOT \(rg-specific
function:
.B _AIX_SOURCE
or
.B _MAC_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX_MODULE ,
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
Following is an example of an MP-safe use of
.BR mi_prev_ptr ():
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1
static caddr_t xxx_state = NULL;

spin_lock_t xxx_state_spinlock = SPIN_LOCK_UNLOCKED;

int
list_some_data(void)
{
    caddr_t item;
    unsigned long flags;

    spin_lock_irqsave(&xxx_state_spinlock, &flags);

    for (item = xxx_state; item; item = mi_prev_ptr(item)) {
	xxx_priv_t *priv = (xxx_priv_t *) item;
	cmd_err(CE_NOTE, "some_data is %ld", priv->some_data);
    }

    spin_unlock_irqrestore(&xxx_state_spinlock, &flags);

    return (0);
}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mi_next_ptr (9),
.BR mi_open_comm (9),
.BR mi_close_comm (9),
.BR ddi_get_soft_state (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
is compatible with
.IR AIX \(rg
and
.IR MacOT \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
is an
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
and
.IR MacOT \(rg-specific
function and it should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
.IP \(em
Use of
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
requires different include file sequences on
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
than on
.IR AIX \(rg.
.IR AIX \(rg
includes
.B <pse/mi.h>
and
.B <sys/stream.h>
only.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR AIX \(rg
and
.IR MacOT \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR AIX \(rg
and
.IR MacOT \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR AIX \(rg
and
.IR MacOT \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR AIX \(rg
and
.IR MacOT \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
is a
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
embellishment based on
.BR mi_next_ptr ().
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR mi_prev_ptr ()
first appeared in
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
