'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mi_reuse_proto.9.man,v 0.9.2.7 2006/10/06 12:13:04 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/06 12:13:04 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mi_reuse_proto.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/10/06 12:13:04  brian
.\" - updated manual pages to pass make check and for release
.\" - updated release files for release
.\" - added missing MacOT OSF/1 and MPS compatibility functions
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/10/05 12:15:43  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:33  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MI_REUSE_PROTO 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mi_reuse_proto
\- reuse a protocol message block
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _MAC_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/macddi.h>
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *mi_reuse_proto(mblk_t *" mp ", int " size ", int " keep_on_error );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fIkeep_on_error\fR\(em'u
.I mp
a pointer to the message to reuse.
.PD 0
.TP
.I size
the size required by the proto message block.
.TP
.I keep_on_error
do not discard message to reuse on error.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
is similar to
.BR mi_reallocb (9).
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
attempts to resize the passed in message block,
.IR mp ,
for use a message block of size,
.IR size .
If
.I mp
is
.BR NULL <
or it
.I mp
cannot be resized, the message block is freed
using
.BR freemsg (9),
unless
.I keep_on_error
indicates that it is to be kept.
.PP
The message block,
.IR mp ,
is deemed unresizable under the following conditions:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.I mp
is
.BR NULL .
.IP \(bu
.I size
is bigger than a
.BR FASTBUF ,
and the real size of the data block attached to
.IR mp ,
beginning at the
.IR b_rptr ,
is smaller than
.IR size .
.IP \(bu
If the number of references to the data block
.RI ( mp->b_datap->db_ref )
is greater than one.
.IP \(bu
If the data block is an external data buffer (\fImp->b_datap->db_frtnp\fR != \fBNULL\fP).
.PP
An unresizable message is freed unless
.I keep_on_error
is
.BR true .
.PP
When the message can be resized, its
.I b_wptr
and
.I b_rptr
members are adjusted and
.IR mp
is returned.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
can be used in many situations where an acknowledgement of typically smaller
size than a request is to be returned.  These situations occur often in
processing
.BR tpi (7)
primitives.  For example, generation of a
.BR T_BIND_ACK (7)
protocol message from a
.BR T_BIND_REQ (7)
message is straigthforward using
.BR mi_reuse_proto ().
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
succeeds, it returns a pointer to the resized message block,
.IR mp ;
when it fails, it returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
fails when the passed in message is unresizable.  The passed in message,
.IR mp ,
is only freed on error if
.I keep_on_error
is
.BR false .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
can be called from any context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
is MP-safe.  The caller is responsible for ensuring exclusive access to the
passed in message pointer (with the exception that if
.I db_ref
is greater than one, the passed in message will not be used).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
is an
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
function:
.BR _MPS_SOURCE ,
.B _AIX_SOURCE
or
.B _MAC_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
must also have been compiled with
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS_MODULE ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX_MODULE ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
simply checks the conditions listed, frees the passed in message block if it
is unusable and
.I keep_on_error
is
.BR false ,
or returns a resized initial passed in message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mi_reallocb (9),
.BR freemsg (9),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR T_BIND_ACK (7),
.BR T_BIND_REQ (7),
.BR mpscompat (9),
.BR aixcompat (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
is
compatible with
.IR MPS \(rg,
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR MacOT \(rg,
and
.IR Solaris \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
is an
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The more portable
.BR allocb ()
function should be used in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR MPS \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR MPS \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
differ from that of
.IR MPS \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR MPS \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR mpscompat (9),
.BR aixcompat (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR MPS \(rg
DDI documentation,
.IR MacOT \(rg
DDI documentation,
.[
macotr
.]
.[
macspg
.]
.IR AIX \(rg
documentation.
.[
aixcpc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
first appeared in
.IR MPS \(rg.
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
is a
Mentat, Inc. function that goes all the way back to the
.RI pre- OSF/1
.I Mentat
implementations.
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
appears in
.IR MacOT \(rg
.[
macspg
.]
and
.IR AIX \(rg.
.[
aixcpc
.]
An undocumented version of
.BR mi_reuse_proto ()
appears in
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
