'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mi_timer_remain.9.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-28 16:47:04 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 16:47:04 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mi_timer_remain.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-28 16:47:04  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/05/18 21:17:57  brian
.\" - updated manual pages for check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/05/17 22:50:30  brian
.\" - extensive rework of mi_timer functions
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/03/04 18:51:43  brian
.\" - added manpage
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MI_TIMER_REMAIN 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mi_timer_remain
\- remaining time before timer expiry
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _MPS_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mpsddi.h>
.HP
.BI "unsigned long mi_timer_remain(mblk_t *" mp );
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/sunddi.h>
.HP
.BI "unsigned long mi_timer_remain(mblk_t *" mp );
.PP
.B #define _MAC_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/macddi.h>
.HP
.BI "unsigned long mi_timer_remain(mblk_t *" mp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I mp
a pointer to the
.BR M_PCSIG (9)
message block that was previously allocated with
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR MPS \(rg-specific DDI.
.PP
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
returns the amount of time, in milliseconds, remaining on the timer whose
message block is specified,
.IR mp .
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
returns zero (0) if the timer is not currently, or has never been, running.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
is one of a set of timer functions including
.BR mi_timer (9),
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9),
.BR mi_timer_cancel (9),
.BR mi_timer_free (9),
.BR mi_timer_move (9),
.BR mi_timer_q_switch (9),
.BR mi_timer_stop (9),
.BR mi_timer_valid (9),
that are used to abstract the kernel timer functions and provide
synchronization with
.I STREAMS
message queues.
.PP
Timers are abstracted in the following way:
.PP
When a timer is first created, a message block is allocated and associated
with the timer.  In general, a large amount of information can be associated
with a timer by placing the information in the message block, see
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9).
When the timer is set, see
.BR mi_timer (),
normal kernel timeout functions are called.  When the timeout occurs, the
message block associated with the timer is placed on a specified queue with
.BR putq (9)
as a
.BR M_PCSIG (9)
message type.
When the timer is processed by the queue
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure,
.BR mi_timer_valid (9)
is called to ensure that the timer is still valid and the timeout action is
otherwise performed.
Timers can be freed,
.BR mi_timer_free (9),
moved between target queues,
.BR mi_timer_move (9),
.BR mi_timer_q_switch (9),
reset,
.BR mi_timer (),
or
stopped,
.BR mi_timer_cancel (9),
.BR mi_timer_stop (9).
.PP
One possible reason for this convoluted approach to timers could be that some
.I STREAMS
implementations place heavy restrictions upon which
.I STREAMS
utilities can be called from without a
.BR timeout (9)
callback function.
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
has no such restriction, and
.I STREAMS
.BR timeout (9)
callbacks can even be syncrhonized with queue procedures.
See
.BR mp-streams (9)
for more information.
.PP
Therefore, the
.BR mi_timer ()
functions are of limited utility on
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
returns
the amout of time, in milliseconds, remaining on the timer.  When the timer is
not running (or has never been started),
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
returns zero (0).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
always succeeds.  If
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
is passed a
.B NULL
or invalid message pointer, or a pointer that points to an invalid structure,
the kernel may destablize and a kernel panic may ensue.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
must not be called from a priority level higher than a timeout.  On
.B Linux
this means that
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
must not be called from an interrupt service routine.  To place the call at the same priority level,
schedule a tasklet to make the call.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.  When using the functions in the proscribed
fashion, the called need not guarantee exclusive access to the passed in message block or queue.
The
.IR MacOT \(rg
flavor of the functions use a double race-breaking state machine to provide MP safety.  The
.IR Solaris \(rg
flavor of the functions have a race condition only in
.BR mi_timer_move (9).
.PP
Note that the timer could exprire immediately after the
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
function returns with a non-zero (!0) value, or could be started immediately
after the
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
function returns with a zero (0) value.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
is an
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
function with
.IR MacOT \(rg
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
variants:
.BR _MPS_SOURCE ,
.B _SUN_SOURCE
or
.B _MAC_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
must also have been compiled with
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS_MODULE ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN_MODULE ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9),
.BR mi_timer_cancel (9),
.BR mi_timer_free (9),
.BR mi_timer_valid (9),
.BR mpscompat (9),
.BR suncompat (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.pp
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
is compatable with
.IR MPS "\(rg, " MacOT "\(rg, and " Solaris \(rg,
with the following portablity considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
is an OpenSS7 Project specific implementation of an
.IR MPS \(rg-compatible
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
is provided for use with SS7 drivers and modules that need to determine
whether a timer is running as part of the state machine functions.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
does not exist in any other
.IR MPS \(rg
implementation other than
.IR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
See
.BR mpscompat (9),
.BR suncompat (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.pp
.PP
.I OpenSS7
project documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.pp
.BR mi_timer_remain ()
first appeared in
.BR @PACKAGE@-0.9.2.5 .
The function was necessary for implementations of the SS7 protocol, where it
is often necessary to determine if a timer is running before taking an action.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
