'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mi_timer.9.man,v 0.9.2.5 2005/07/05 22:46:04 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/07/05 22:46:04 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strcompat.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MI_TIMER 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mi_timer
\- schedule a \fBM_PCSIG\fR(9) \fISTREAMS\fR message for a future time
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _MAC_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/macddi.h>
.HP
void \fBmi_timer\fR(mblk_t *\fImp\fR, ulong \fImsec\fR);
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/sunddi.h>
.HP
void \fBmi_timer\fR(queue_t *\fIq\fR, mblk_t *\fImp\fR, ulong \fImsec\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
a pointer to the
.I STREAMS
queue onto which to place the
.BR M_PCSIG (9)
message when the timer expires.
This pointer will be used as the argument to a
.BR put (9)
command when the timer expires.
In the
.IR MacOT \(rg
form of the function, this argument is provided in the previous call to
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9).  In the
.IR OpenSolaris \(rg
form of the function, this argument is present here, but not in the call to
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9).
.TP
.I mp
a pointer to the
.BR M_PCSIG (9)
message block that was allocated with
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9).
.TP
.I msec
the duration in milliseconds before timer expiry.
This message block can also contain additional user data.
The
.IR OpenSolaris \(rg
form of
.BR mi_timer ()
accept two special values of
.I msec
as follows:
.RS
.TP \w'(clock_t)(-1)00'u
.B (clock_t)(-1)
the special value (minus one) requests that the timer be cancelled instead of scheduled.
This is equivalent to calling
.BR mi_timer_stop (9).
.TP
.B (clock_t)(-2)
the special value (minus two) requests that the timer be moved to a new target queue instead of
rescheduled.
This is equivalent to calling
.BR mi_timer_move (9).
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mi_timer ()
will schedule the
.I mp
message pointer (which must be created using
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9))
to be placed on the target
.I STREAMS
queue at the specified future time.
.BR mi_timer_valid (9)
must be used in the target queue put or service procedure whenever a
.BR M_PCSIG (9)
message is dequeued.
.PP
If the
.BR M_PCSIG (9)
message block is freshly allocated with
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9)
then
.BR mi_timer ()
schedules a
.BR timeout (9)
that, upon expiry, will place the message block on the target queue.
.PP
If the message block already has a running timer associated with it,
.BR mi_timer ()
will cancel the previous
.RB timeout (9)
and reschedure the timer.
This occurs even if the
.BR timeout (9)
has just expired and the message block has already been placed on the target queue.
In this case
.BR mi_timer (9)
marks the message block for rescheduling that will be performed when the mesage is dequeued and
examined with
.BR mi_timer_valid (9)
the
.BR timeout (9)
will be rescheduled.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR mi_timer ()
succeeds, it returns 
.BR true  " (1);
when it fails, it returns
.BR false " (0).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR mi_timer ()
fails when 
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
Following is an example using the
.IR MacOT \(rg
variants of
.BR mi_timer ():
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1
#define NTIMERS 5
static caddr_t xxx_list = NULL;
typedef struct xxx_priv {
     ulong some_data;
     mblk_t *timers[NTIMERS];
} xxx_priv_t;
#define PRIVSZ (sizeof(xxx_priv_t))
int
xxx_open(queue_t *q, dev_t *devp, int flag, int sflag,
         cred_t *crp)
{
     int err;
     err = mi_open_comm(&xxx_list, PRIVSZ, devp,
                        flag, sflag, crp);
     if (err == 0) {
          xxx_priv_t *p = (typeof(p)) q->q_ptr;
          int i;
          for (i = 0; i < NTIMER; i++) {
               p->timers[i] =
                   mi_timer_alloc(q, sizeof(int));
               *(int *) (p->timers[i]->b_rptr) = i;
          }
          qprocson(q);
     }
     return (err);
}

int
xxx_close(queue_t *q, int oflag, cred_t *crp)
{
     xxx_priv_t *p = (xxx_priv_t *) q->q_ptr;
     int i;
     qprocsoff(q);
     mi_detach(q, (caddr_t) p);
     for (i = 0; i < NTIMER; i++)
          if (p->timers[i])
               mi_timer_free(p->timers[i]);
     mi_close_detached(&xxx_list, (caddr_t) p);
     return (0);

}

int
xxx_rput(queue_t *q, mblk_t *mp)
{
     xxx_priv_t *p = (xxx_priv_t *) q->q_ptr;
     switch (mp->b_datap->db_type) {
     case M_DATA:
          /* ... */
     case M_PROTO:
          /* ... */
     case M_PCSIG:
          if (mi_timer_valid(mp)) {
               int i = *(int *) (mp->b_rptr);
               switch (i) {
               case 0:
                    /* timeout action 1 */
                    mi_timer_cancel(p->timers[4]);
                    mi_timer(p->timers[3], 2000);
                    break;
               case 1:
                    /* timeout action 2 */
               case 2:
                    /* timeout action 3 */
               case 3:
                    /* timeout action 4 */
               case 4:
                    /* timeout action 5 */
               }
          }
          return (0);
          /* ... */
     case M_FLUSH:
          /* ... */
     }
}
\s+1\fC
.fi
.PP
Following is an example using the
.IR OpenSolaris \(rg
variants of
.BR mi_timer ():
.PP
For
.IR OpenSolaris \(rg,
in the open procedure we use: (Notice the lack of a
.I q
argument to
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9).)
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1
          for (i = 0; i < NTIMER; i++) {
               p->timers[i] =
                   mi_timer_alloc(sizeof(int));
               *(int *) (p->timers[i]->b_rptr) = i;
          }
\s+1\fC
.fi
.PP
and in the put procedure we use: (Notice the addition of a
.I q
argument to
.BR mi_timer ().)
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1
     case M_PCSIG:
          if (mi_timer_valid(mp)) {
               int i = *(int *) (mp->b_rptr);
               switch (i) {
               case 0:
                    /* timeout action 1 */
                    mi_timer_cancel(p->timers[4]);
                    mi_timer(q, p->timers[3], 2000);
                    break;
               case 1:
                    /* ... */
               }
          }
\s+1\fC
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mi_timer ()
must not be called from a priority level higher than a timeout.  On
.B Linux
this means that
.BR mi_timer ()
must not be called from an interrupt service routine.  To place the call at the same priority level,
schedule a tasklet to make the call.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR mi_timer ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.  When using the functions in the proscribed
fashion, the called need not guarnatee exclusive access to the passed in message block or queue.
The
.IR MacOT \(rg
flavor of the functions use a double race-breaking state machine to provide MP safety.  The
.IR OpenSolaris \(rg
flavor of the functions have a race condition only in
.BR mi_timer_move (9),
and this a call to
.BR mi_timer ()
with the special
.I msec
value of minus two
.RB ( -2 ).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mi_timer ()
is a
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
function with
.IR MacOT \(rg
and
.IR OpenSolaris \(rg
variants:
.BR _MAC_SOURCE " or " _SUN_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC_MODULE ,
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
Some versions of
.BR mi_timer ()
place the message block onto the target queue, bypassing the queue's put procedure.  These variants
only work for queues that have service procedures.
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.BR mi_timer ()
uses
.BR put (9)
to place the message block on the taret queue, thus invoking the target queue's put procedure.  (All
.I STREAMS
queues require put procedures, but not all require service procedures.)
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9),
.BR mi_timer_cancel (9),
.BR mi_timer_free (9),
.BR mi_timer_valid (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mi_timer ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR mi_timer ()
is compatible with
.IR MacOT \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.BR mi_timer ()
is an
.IR MacOT \(rg-specific
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The more common
.BR timeout (9)
function should be used in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_timer ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR MacOT \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR MacOT \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR MacOT \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_timer ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR MacOT \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR mi_timer ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR maccompat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR MacOT \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
macotr
.]
.[
macspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR mi_timer ()
first appeared in
.IR MacOT \(rg.
.BR mi_timer ()
is probably a Mentat, Inc. function that goes all the way back to the
.RI pre- OSF/1
.I Mentat
implementations.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
