'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mioc2ack.9.man,v 0.9.2.2 2005/07/04 19:28:47 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/07/04 19:28:47 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strcompat.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MIOC2ACK 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mioc2ack
\- acknowledge a \fISTREAMS\fR \fBioct\fR(2) call with data
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strsun.h>
.HP
void \fBmioc2ack\fR(mblk_t *\fImp\fR, mblk_t *\fIdb\fR, size_t \fIcount\fR, int \fIrval\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I mp
a pointer to a
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
or
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
message block from the input output control operation to be processed, normally passed into the
write-side queue put or service procedure.
.TP
.I db
a pointer to a message block containing
.I count
bytes of data to be attached to the message, or,
.BR NULL ,
if the message block representing the data is already attached to the message block passed in as
.IR mp .
.TP
.I count
the count of the number of bytes of data contained in the attached or passed in message block.
.TP
.I rval
the return value to return from the
.BR ioctl (2)
call.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mioc2ack ()
transforms the passed in
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
or
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
message block,
.IR mp ,
into a
.BR M_IOCACK (9)
message block to be passed upstream by the caller.  Also,
.BR mioc2ack ()
optionally attaches a message block,
.IR db ,
containing data to be attached to the message.  The count and return value set in the
resulting
.BR M_IOCACK (9)
message will be set to
.IR count " and " rval .
.PP
.BR mioc2ack ()
only transforms the passed in message block to a valid
.BR M_IOCACK (9)
message: it is the responsibility of the caller to place the message on the appropriate queue after
the function returns.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR mioc2ack ()
is used in processing of
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
and
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
messages when performing
.BR ioctl (2)
processing in a
.I STREAMS
module or driver write-side queue put or service procedures.  It is used to acknolwedge the
completion of a
.BR ioctl (2)
operation and return a value with data attached to the
.BR M_IOCACK (9)
message block.
.PP
It is not normal in the
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
implementation to even need to pass a
.BR M_IOCACK (9)
message with data back to the stream head.  Typically, the message would not include data and the
.BR miocack (9)
function could be used in its stead.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR mioc2ack ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR mioc2ack ()
always succeeds; however, when passed an invalid pointer or argument,
.BR mioc2ack ()
has indeterminate results and could destabilize the kernel or cause immediate or delayed panic.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mioc2ack ()
can be called from any context; however, it is normally called from a
.I STREAMS
module or driver write-side put or service procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR mioc2ack ()
is MP-safe; however, it is the responsibility of the caller to ensure exclusive access to the passed
in message blocks.  This is normally the case when
.BR mioc2ack ()
is called from a
.I STREAMS
module or driver write-side put or service procedure with a message block that was passed to those
procedures.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mioc2ack ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function:
.B _SUN_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR miocack (9),
.BR miocnak (9),
.BR mcopyin (9),
.BR mcopyout (9),
.BR miocpullup (9),
.BR suncompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mioc2ack ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR mioc2ack ()
is compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR mioc2ack ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function that should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
For maximum portability, the message blocks and structures should be manipulated directly using
standard
.I STREAMS
utilities in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR mioc2ack ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR Solaris \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR Solaris \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR mioc2ack ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR Solaris \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR mioc2ack ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR suncompat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Solaris \(rg
SUNDDI documentation.
.[
soldoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR mioc2ack ()
first appeared in
.IR Solaris \(rg
2.5.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
