'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mkiocb.9.man,v 0.9.2.2 2006/10/06 12:13:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/06 12:13:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mkiocb.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/06 12:13:05  brian
.\" - updated manual pages to pass make check and for release
.\" - updated release files for release
.\" - added missing MacOT OSF/1 and MPS compatibility functions
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/10/05 12:15:44  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:43:33  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MKIOCB 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mkiocb
\- generate a \fISTREAMS\fR \fBM_IOCTL\fR(9)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strsun.h>
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *mkiocb(unsigned int " command ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.PP
.TP \w'command\ \ 'u
.I command
the input-output control command to place in the
.I ioc_cmd
member of the
.BR iocblk (9)
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mkiocb ()
create an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message to be used internal to the kernel and simulate a input-output control command,
.I command ,
downstream.
.BR mkiocb ()
allocates and formats an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message block and populates the contained
.BR iocblk (9)
structure with appropriate values.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR mkiocb ()
can be used by a
.I STREAMS
driver or module to simulate a input-output control command operation downstream.  This is often
doen by the
.BR ldterm (4)
module.
The allocated block does not have any data blocks attached and it is the responsiblity of the caller
to allocate and attach any necessary data blocks representing the arguments of the input-output
control command.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When successful,
.BR mkiocb ()
returns a pointer to the allocated message block.
Upon failure, it returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR mkiocb ()
fails, it returns
.BR NULL .
.BR mkiocb ()
fails when it is unable to immediately allocated the necessary message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mkiocb ()
can be called from any context; however, it is normally called from a
.I STREAMS
driver or module
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR mkiocb ()
is MP-safe.  The caller has exclusive access to the returned message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mkiocb ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function:
.B _SUN_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR mkiocb ()
is implemented allocating and completing the necessary message block.  The
.I ioc_cmd
member will be populated with the
.I command
argument.  The
.I ioc_id
will be taken from an internal variable that is incremented with each call to
.BR mkiocb ().
When executed from process context, the
.I ioc_cr
member will be populated with a pointer to the credentials associated with the
current process.  When executed from a
.I STREAMS
procedure, the
.I ioc_cr
member will be populated with a pointer to the credentials associated with the
.I STREAMS
scheduler kernel thread (one with
.BR init ).
The
.IR ioc_count ", " ioc_rval " and " ioc_error
members will be set to zero.
The
.I ioc_flag
field will have the
.BR IOC_NATIVE
flag set indicating that the data model is from within the kernel.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR suncompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mkiocb ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR mkiocb ()
is compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR mkiocb ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function that should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
For maximum portability, the message blocks and structures should be manipulated directly using
standard
.I STREAMS
utilities in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR mkiocb ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR Solaris \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
differ from that of
.IR Solaris \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR mkiocb ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR Solaris \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR mkiocb ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR suncompat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Solaris \(rg
SUNDDI documentation.
.[
soldoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR mkiocb ()
first appeared in
.IR Solaris \(rg
2.5.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
