'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mpscompat.9.man,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-28 16:47:04 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 16:47:04 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mpscompat.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-04-28 16:47:04  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2007/03/30 11:59:21  brian
.\" - heavy rework of MP syncrhonization
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/10/06 12:13:05  brian
.\" - updated manual pages to pass make check and for release
.\" - updated release files for release
.\" - added missing MacOT OSF/1 and MPS compatibility functions
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/10/05 12:15:45  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/04/05 09:43:34  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MPSCOMPAT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mpscompat
\- MPS \fISTREAMS\fR Compatibility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _MPS_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides a compatibility module,
.BR streams-mpscompat.o ,
that provides compatibility functions that smooth porting of drivers from the
.I Mentat Portable STREAMS
environment to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.PP
Version of the
.I Mentat Portable STREAMS
environment, or at least
the MPS API for use by Mentat TCP/IP implementation,
appears in
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixspg
.]
.IR MacOT \(rg,
.[
macspg
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
.IR VxWorks \(rg,
.[
vxwspg
.]
and other
.I STREAMS
implementations containing
.I Mentat
TCP/IP implementation, either historically or currently.
Versions of these functions can also likely be found in
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfspg
.]
and
.IR HP-UX \(rg.
.[
hpuxspg
.]
Any
.I STREAMS
implementation still using
.I Lachman
TCP/IP implementation will likely not have these functions.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Many of the functions that are provided by
.IR MPS \(rg
are also provided by the core
.BR streams.o " and " streams-svr4compat.o
kernel modules of
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
Other
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
functions are provided by the
.BR streams-mpscompat.o
compatibility kernel module.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Core Functions"
.PP
Functions that are already available in
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
are as follows:
.PD 0
.PD
.\"
.SS "Specific Functions"
.PP
Functions that are available in the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.IR MPS \(rg
compatibility module,
.BR streams-mpscompat.o ,
are as follows:
.HP
.BR mi_alloc (9)\ \-\ \c
allocate and free kernel memory without later regard to size
.PD 0
.HP
.BR mi_allocq (9)\ \-\ \c
.BR allocq (9)
replacement
.HP
.BR mi_alloc_sleep (9)\ \-\ \c
.BR kmem_alloc (9)
replacement
.HP
.BR mi_attach (9)\ \-\ \c
associate instance data with a \fISTREAMS\fR queue
.HP
.BR mi_bcmp (9)\ \-\ \c
compate two binary memory extents
.HP
.BR mi_bufcall (9)\ \-\ \c
reliable alternative to \fBbufcall\fP(9)
.HP
.BR mi_close_comm (9)\ \-\ \c
\fISTREAMS\fP common minor device close utility
.HP
.BR mi_close_detached (9)\ \-\ \c
release instance data from the \fISTREAMS\fR queue and perform close cleanup
.HP
.BR mi_close_free (9)\ \-\ \c
free a \fISTREAMS\fR driver or module instance on close
.HP
.BR mi_close_unlink (9)\ \-\ \c
unlink a \fISTREAMS\fR driver or module instance from a Stream
.HP
.BR mi_copy_done (9)\ \-\ \c
\fBioctl\fR(2) complete
.HP
.BR mi_copyin (9)\ \-\ \c
copy data from a user buffer
.HP
.BR mi_copyin_n (9)\ \-\ \c
copy data from a user buffer
.HP
.BR mi_copyout (9)\ \-\ \c
copy data from a user buffer
.HP
.BR mi_copyout_alloc (9)\ \-\ \c
allocate a buffer to be copied out using \fBmi_copyout\fR(9)
.HP
.BR mi_copy_set_rval (9)\ \-\ \c
set return value for input-output control
.HP
.BR mi_copy_state (9)\ \-\ \c
current state of the input-output control process
.HP
.BR mi_detach (9)\ \-\ \c
disassociate instance data from the \fISTREAMS\fR queue
.HP
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr (9)\ \-\ \c
obtain first device instance pointer
.HP
.BR mi_first_ptr (9)\ \-\ \c
obtain first instance pointer
.HP
.BR mi_free (9)\ \-\ \c
.BR kmem_free (9)
replacement
.HP
.BR mi_freeq (9)\ \-\ \c
.BR freeq (9)
replacement
.HP
.BR mi_mpprintf (9)\ \-\ \c
print a formatted string to a message buffer
.HP
.BR mi_mpprintf_nr (9)\ \-\ \c
continue to print a formatted string to a message buffer
.HP
.BR mi_next_dev_ptr (9)\ \-\ \c
obtain next device instance pointer
.HP
.BR mi_next_ptr (9)\ \-\ \c
\fISTREAMS\fP minor device list traversal
.HP
.BR mi_offset_param (9)\ \-\ \c
obtain parameter location within \fISTREAMS\fR message block
.HP
.BR mi_offset_paramc (9)\ \-\ \c
obtain parameter location within \fISTREAMS\fR message block chain
.HP
.BR mi_open_alloc (9)\ \-\ \c
allocate a \fISTREAMS\fR driver or module instance
.HP
.BR mi_open_alloc_sleep (9)\ \-\ \c
allocate a \fISTREAMS\fR driver or module instance (may sleep)
.HP
.BR mi_open_comm (9)\ \-\ \c
\fISTREAMS\fP common minor device open utility
.HP
.BR mi_open_detached (9)\ \-\ \c
\fISTREAMS\fP create detached instance data
.HP
.BR mi_open_link (9)\ \-\ \c
link a \fISTREAMS\fR driver or modules instance on open
.HP
.BR mi_prev_ptr (9)\ \-\ \c
\fISTREAMS\fP minor device list traversal
.HP
.BR mi_timer_q_switch (9)\ \-\ \c
switch \fISTREAMS\fR queues for a timer message
.HP
.BR mi_reallocb (9)\ \-\ \c
reallocate a \fISTREAMS\fR message block
.HP
.BR mi_reuse_proto (9)\ \-\ \c
reuse a \fISTREAMS\fR protocol message block 
.HP
.BR mi_set_sth_copyopt (9)\ \-\ \c
set the \fISTREAMS\fR stream head copy options
.HP
.BR mi_set_sth_hiwat (9)\ \-\ \c
set the \fISTREAMS\fR stream head high water mark
.HP
.BR mi_set_sth_lowat (9)\ \-\ \c
set the \fISTREAMS\fR stream head low water mark
.HP
.BR mi_set_sth_maxblk (9)\ \-\ \c
set the \fISTREAMS\fR stream head maximum block size
.HP
.BR mi_set_sth_wroff (9)\ \-\ \c
set the \fISTREAMS\fR stream head write offset
.HP
.BR mi_sprintf (9)\ \-\ \c
.BR sprintf (3)
replacement.
.HP
.BR mi_sprintf_putc (9)\ \-\ \c
put a character in an sprintf buffer
.HP
.BR mi_strcmp (9)\ \-\ \c
.BR strcmp (3)
replacement
.HP
.BR mi_strlen (9)\ \-\ \c
.BR strlen (3)
replacement
.HP
.BR mi_strlog (9)\ \-\ \c
.BR strlog (9)
replacement
.HP
.BR mi_strtol (9)\ \-\ \c
.BR strtol (3)
replacement
.HP
.BR mi_timer (9)\ \-\ \c
process a \fISTREAMS\fR timer
.HP
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9)\ \-\ \c
allocate a \fISTREAMS\fR timer
.HP
.BR mi_timer_cancel (9)\ \-\ \c
cancel a \fISTREAMS\fR timer
.HP
.BR mi_timer_free (9)\ \-\ \c
free a \fISTREAMS\fR timer
.HP
.BR mi_timer_move (9)\ \-\ \c
move a \fISTREAMS\fR timer
.HP
.BR mi_timer_q_switch (9)\ \-\ \c
switch queues for \fISTREAMS\fR timer
.HP
.BR mi_timer_stop (9)\ \-\ \c
stop a \fISTREAMS\fR timer
.HP
.BR mi_timer_valid (9)\ \-\ \c
check a \fISTREAMS\fR timer
.HP
.BR mi_zalloc (9)\ \-\ \c
.BR kmem_zalloc (9)
replacement
.HP
.BR mi_zalloc_sleep (9)\ \-\ \c
.BR kmem_zalloc (9)
replacement
.PD
.\"
.SS "\fIMPS\fP\fR\(rg\fP Transport Functions"
.PP
.IR MPS \(rg
exposes a number of symbols from the underlying Mentat
.IR MPS \(rg
TCP/IP implementation that are also documented in the
.IR MPS \(rg
documentation.
These transport functions are
.B not
part of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package:
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_ack_alloc (9)\ \-\ \c
allocate a
.BR T_OK_ACK (7)
or
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7)
.PD 0
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_conn_con (9)\ \-\ \c
generate a
.BR T_CONN_CON (7)
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_conn_ind (9)\ \-\ \c
generate a
.BR T_CONN_IND (7)
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_conn_req (9)\ \-\ \c
generate a
.BR T_CONN_REQ (7)
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_data_ind (9)\ \-\ \c
generate a
.BR T_DATA_IND (7)
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_data_req (9)\ \-\ \c
generate a
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7)
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_discon_ind (9)\ \-\ \c
generate a
.BR T_DISCON_IND (7)
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_discon_req (9)\ \-\ \c
generate a
.BR T_DISCON_REQ (7)
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_err_ack_alloc (9)\ \-\ \c
allocate a
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7)
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_exdata_ind (9)\ \-\ \c
generate a
.BR T_EXDATA_IND (7)
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_exdata_req (9)\ \-\ \c
generate a
.BR T_EXDATA_REQ (7)
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_info_req (9)\ \-\ \c
generate a
.BR T_INFO_REQ (7)
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_ok_ack_alloc (9)\ \-\ \c
allocate a
.BR T_OK_ACK (7)
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_ordrel_ind (9)\ \-\ \c
generate a
.BR T_ORDREL_IND (7)
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_ordrel_req (9)\ \-\ \c
generate a
.BR T_ORDREL_REQ (7)
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_uderror_ind (9)\ \-\ \c
generate a
.BR T_UDERROR_IND (7)
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_unitdata_ind (9)\ \-\ \c
generate a
.BR T_UNITDATA_IND (7)
.HP
.BR mi_tpi_unitdata_req (9)\ \-\ \c
generate a
.BR T_UNITDATA_REQ (7)
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
For usage an example of the various functions, see the individual manual pages.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH RETURN
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH ERRORS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
These functions can be executed from various contexts as described in each separate manual page.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
Most of these functions are MP-safe; however,
see the separate manual pages for each specific function.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
These are
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
functions:
.B _MPS_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose these symbols.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS_MODULE
defined.
When compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS
defined,
.IR MPS \(rg
compatibility will become part of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.I streams
kernel module.
When compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS_MODULE
defined,
.IR MPS \(rg
compatibility will be placed in a separate
.I streams-mpscompat
kernel module that will demand load when any
.I STREAMS
driver or module that uses the
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
functions loads.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
Core functions are implemented within the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
framework.
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
functions are implemented as described in the separate manual pages describing each facility.
.PP
All
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
functions are implemented with the exception of the
.IR MPS \(rg
Transport Functions:
.BR mi_tpi_ack_alloc (9),
.BR mi_tpi_conn_con (9),
.BR mi_tpi_conn_ind (9),
.BR mi_tpi_conn_req (9),
.BR mi_tpi_data_ind (9),
.BR mi_tpi_data_req (9),
.BR mi_tpi_discon_ind (9),
.BR mi_tpi_discon_req (9),
.BR mi_tpi_err_ack_alloc (9),
.BR mi_tpi_exdata_ind (9),
.BR mi_tpi_exdata_req (9),
.BR mi_tpi_info_req (9),
.BR mi_tpi_ok_ack_alloc (9),
.BR mi_tpi_ordrel_ind (9),
.BR mi_tpi_ordrel_req (9),
.BR mi_tpi_uderror_ind (9),
.BR mi_tpi_unitdata_ind (9),
.BR mi_tpi_unitdata_req (9).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IOCTLS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH SYSCTLS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
Core functions:
.PP
Compatibility functions:
.BR mi_alloc (9),
.BR mi_allocq (9),
.BR mi_alloc_sleep (9),
.BR mi_attach (9),
.BR mi_bcmp (9),
.BR mi_bufcall (9),
.BR mi_close_comm (9),
.BR mi_close_detached (9),
.BR mi_close_free (9),
.BR mi_close_unlink (9),
.BR mi_copy_done (9),
.BR mi_copyin (9),
.BR mi_copyin_n (9),
.BR mi_copyout (9),
.BR mi_copyout_alloc (9),
.BR mi_copy_set_rval (9),
.BR mi_copy_state (9),
.BR mi_detach (9),
.BR mi_first_dev_ptr (9),
.BR mi_first_ptr (9),
.BR mi_free (9),
.BR mi_freeq (9),
.BR mi_mpprintf (9),
.BR mi_mpprintf_nr (9),
.BR mi_next_dev_ptr (9),
.BR mi_next_ptr (9),
.BR mi_offset_param (9),
.BR mi_offset_paramc (9),
.BR mi_open_alloc (9),
.BR mi_open_alloc_sleep (9),
.BR mi_open_comm (9),
.BR mi_open_detached (9),
.BR mi_open_link (9),
.BR mi_prev_ptr (9),
.BR mi_timer_q_switch (9),
.BR mi_reallocb (9),
.BR mi_reuse_proto (9),
.BR mi_set_sth_copyopt (9),
.BR mi_set_sth_hiwat (9),
.BR mi_set_sth_lowat (9),
.BR mi_set_sth_maxblk (9),
.BR mi_set_sth_wroff (9),
.BR mi_sprintf (9),
.BR mi_sprintf_putc (9),
.BR mi_strcmp (9),
.BR mi_strlen (9),
.BR mi_strlog (9),
.BR mi_strtol (9),
.BR mi_timer (9),
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9),
.BR mi_timer_cancel (9),
.BR mi_timer_free (9),
.BR mi_timer_move (9),
.BR mi_timer_stop (9),
.BR mi_timer_valid (9),
.BR mi_zalloc (9),
.BR mi_zalloc_sleep (9).
.PP
Transport Functions:
.BR mi_tpi_ack_alloc (9),
.BR mi_tpi_conn_con (9),
.BR mi_tpi_conn_ind (9),
.BR mi_tpi_conn_req (9),
.BR mi_tpi_data_ind (9),
.BR mi_tpi_data_req (9),
.BR mi_tpi_discon_ind (9),
.BR mi_tpi_discon_req (9),
.BR mi_tpi_err_ack_alloc (9),
.BR mi_tpi_exdata_ind (9),
.BR mi_tpi_exdata_req (9),
.BR mi_tpi_info_req (9),
.BR mi_tpi_ok_ack_alloc (9),
.BR mi_tpi_ordrel_ind (9),
.BR mi_tpi_ordrel_req (9),
.BR mi_tpi_uderror_ind (9),
.BR mi_tpi_unitdata_ind (9),
.BR mi_tpi_unitdata_req (9).
.PP
General:
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.IR MPS \(rg
compatibility suite has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
These functions are compatible with
.IR MPS \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
These are
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
functions and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The more common
.I SVR 4.2 MP
functions should be used in their stead.
.IP \(em
These functions
are provided for source level compatibility with
.IR MPS \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR MPS \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
differ from that of
.IR MPS \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
These functions
only provide functionality comparable to
.IR MPS \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
these functions
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR MPS \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
svr4dk
.]
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Most of these functions
first appeared in
.IR MPS \(rg.
Functions with name starting with
.I mi_
are Mentat, Inc. functions that goe all the way back to the
.RI pre- OSF/1
.I Mentat
implementations.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
