'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MPSTR_STPLOCK.9.man,v 0.9.2.11 2008-04-28 16:47:02 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 16:47:02 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MPSTR_STPLOCK.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.11  2008-04-28 16:47:02  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2006/10/06 12:12:59  brian
.\" - updated manual pages to pass make check and for release
.\" - updated release files for release
.\" - added missing MacOT OSF/1 and MPS compatibility functions
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/04/05 09:43:30  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MPSTR_STPLOCK 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B MPSTR_STPLOCK
\- acquire a stream head for exclusive access
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SVR4_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "pl_t MPSTR_STPLOCK(struct stdata *" stp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'priority\(em'u
.I stp
A pointer to the stream head
.B stdata (9)
structure to acquire for exclusive access.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
acquires an exclusive (write) lock on the
.BR stdata (9)
structure specified by the
.I stp
argument.  If the lock is held by a process on another processor, the calling
processor will spin until the lock is acquired.
.PP
.BR MPSTR_STPRELE (9)
is used to release the lock once it has been acquired.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
is used to gain exclusive access to a
.BR stdata (9)
structure for the purpose of manipulating members of the structure and related
.BR queue (9)
structures, in an atomic fashion.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
returns the interrupt priority level
.RB ( spl )
that was in effect at the time of the call.  For the duration of time that
the lock is helpd, interrupts are disabled.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
is always successful.  Calling
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
with invalid or uninitialized arguments will yield indeterminate results.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
can be called from any context, except interrupt service routines.  If a
process on another processor holds the lock, the calling processor will spin
awaiting release of the lock.  If acquired from a user or blocking context,
care should be taken that the calling process does not sleep before releasing
the lock with
.BR MPSTR_STPRELE (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
does not provide exclusive access to the
.I sd_flag
member of the
.BR stdata (9)
structure.  The
.I sd_flag
member is accessed separately with atomic bit operations.
.PP
Use of
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
.PP
Use of
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
has a direct impact on
.I STREAMS
performance.
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
takes a write lock on the
.BR stdata (9)
structure specified by
.IR stp ,
so all other read and write accesses to members of the
.BR stdata (9)
structure is blocked until the lock is released.  In addition, interrupts are
disabled for the duration that the lock is held.  Although this lock is less
severe than
.BR freezestr (9),
the period of time that a queue is locked with
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
should be kept to a bare minimum.
.PP
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
is a
.IR "SVR 4.2" -specific
function:
.B _SVR4_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR4
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR4_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
takes a write lock on the
.I sd_qlock
member of the
.BR stdata (9)
structure specified by
.IR stp ,
nested on the owning
.B task_struct
task structure as specified by the
.IR sd_owner " and " sd_nest
members.
In addtion,
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
returns the current interrupt mask and suppresses interrupts.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following is an example of using
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
to permit safe direct write access to members of the
.BR stdata (9)
structure:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1
pl_t pl;

pl = MPSTR_STPLOCK(stp);
{
    /* directly access some stdata members */
    stp->wrerr = 0;
    stp->rderr = 0;
}
MPSTR_STPRELE(stp, pl);
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MPSTR_STPRELE (9),
.BR MPSTR_QLOCK (9),
.BR MPSTR_QRELE (9),
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR unfreezestr (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B Linux
doe snot have interrupt priority levels in the same sense as
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
The
.B pl_t
return value of
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
corresponds to interrupt flags rather than
.BR spl .
See
.BR splx (9)
for more information.
.IP \(em
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
is implemented as an
.B extern inline
function.
.I "SVR 4.2 MP"
and systems based on
.I "SVR 4.2"
implement
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
as a C preprocessor macro.
.IP \(em
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
is implemented as a recursive (nesting) lock, meaning that it can be called on
a queue already locked by
.BR MPSTR_STRPLOCK ().
Some systems based on
.I SVR 4.2 MP
implement
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
as a non-recursive lock.
.IP \(em
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for the purpose of porting
.IR "SVR 4.2"
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
differ from that of
.IR "SVR 4.2"
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.[
uslspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.0 MP" .
.[
svr4dk
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
