'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: msgb.9.man,v 0.9.2.12 2008-04-28 16:47:04 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 16:47:04 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: msgb.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.12  2008-04-28 16:47:04  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.11  2006/10/06 12:13:05  brian
.\" - updated manual pages to pass make check and for release
.\" - updated release files for release
.\" - added missing MacOT OSF/1 and MPS compatibility functions
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2006/10/05 12:15:45  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/04/05 10:05:04  brian
.\" - get references in right place
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:43:34  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MSGB 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B msgb, mblk_t
\- \fISTREAMS\fP message block structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1
.B #include <sys/stream.h>

typedef struct msgb {
    struct msgb *b_next;   /* next msgb on queue */
    struct msgb *b_prev;   /* prev msgb on queue */
    struct msgb *b_cont;   /* next msgb in message */
    unsigned char *b_rptr; /* rd pointer into datab */
    unsigned char *b_wptr; /* wr pointer into datab */
    struct datab *b_datap; /* pointer to datab */
    unsigned char b_band;  /* band of this message */
    unsigned char b_pad1;  /* padding */
    unsigned short b_flag; /* message flags */
    unsigned char b_pad2[sizeof(ulong) - 4]; /* padding */
    long b_csum;           /* checksum */
} mblk_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The following members correspond to
.I SVR 4.2 EFT
members:
.TP \w'\ b_bandp\ 'u
.I b_next
the next
.B msgb
structure on a
.BR queue (9);
.PD 0
.TP
.I b_prev
the previous
.B msgb
structure on a
.BR queue (9);
.TP
.I b_cont
next
.B msgb
structure in the chain representing a single message;
.TP
.I b_rptr
a pointer into the data from which to read;
.TP
.I b_wptr
a pointer into the data to which to write;
.TP
.I b_datap
a pointer to the
.B datab
structure representing the actual data;
.TP
.I b_band
the
.BR qband (9)
to which this message belongs;
.TP
.I b_pad1
padding;
.TP
.I b_flag
message flags:
.PD
.RS
.TP \w'\ MSGNOTMARKNEXT\ 'u
.B MSGMARK
last byte of message is marked;
.PD 0
.TP
.B MSGNOLOOP
don't loop message at stream head;
.TP
.B MSGDELIM
message is delimited;
.TP
.B MSGNOGET
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7spg
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
.IR MacOT \(rg,
.[
macspg
.]
.IR UXP/V \(rg:
.[
uxpspg
.]
getq does not return message;
.TP
.B MSGATTEN
.IR UXP/V \(rg:
.[
uxpspg
.]
attention to on read side;
.TP
.B MSGMARKNEXT
.IR Solaris \(rg:
.[
solspg
.]
next message is marked;
.TP
.B MSGLOG
.IR UnixWare \(rg:
.[
uw7spg
.]
log on arrival of this message;
.TP
.B MSGNOTMARKNEXT
.IR Solaris \(rg:
.[
solspg
.]
next message is not marked;
.TP
.B MSGCOMPRESS
.IR OSF/1 \(rg:
.[
osfspg
.]
compress like messages as space allows;
.TP
.B MSGNOTIFY
.IR OSF/1 \(rg:
.[
osfspg
.]
notify when message consumed;
.TP
.B MSGCSUM
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" :
.I b_csum
contains TCP/UDP partial checksum;
.TP
.B MSGCRC32C
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" :
.I b_csum
conatains SCTP partial checksum;
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I b_pad2
padding.
.PP
The following members are
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
specific members:
.TP \w'\ b_datap\ 'u
.I b_csum
checksum.
.PD 0
.PD
.\".TP \w'\ b_bandp\ 'u
.\".I b_queue
.\"the
.\".BR queue (9)
.\"upon which this message is queued,
.\".B NULL
.\"otherwise
.\".TP
.\".I b_bandp
.\"the
.\".BR qband (9)
.\"upon which this message is queued,
.\".BR NULL
.\"otherwise
.\".TP
.\".I b_size
.\"the size of the message (in bytes) when it was placed on the
.\".BR queue (9)
.\"indicated by
.\".I b_queue
.\"
.\"
.SH MACROS
The following macros are available in
.B <sys/strsun.h>
and are
.IR Solaris \(rg
macros that are used to perform some simple operations on message blocks:
.TP
.BI MBLKL( mp )
Returns the length of the message block as a difference between the
.IR b_wptr " and " b_rptr
pointers.  This value could be negative.
.TP
.BI MBLKSIZE( mp )
Returns the available length from the data block as a difference between the
.IR db_lim " and " db_base
pointers.  This value could be negative.  See also
.BR datab (9).
.TP
.BI MBLKHEAD( mp )
Returns the available headroom in the data block as a difference between the
.IR b_rptr " and " db_base
pointers.  This value could be negative, but should not normally be less than zero.
.TP
.BI MBLKTAIL( mp )
Returns the available headroom in the data block as a difference between the
.IR db_lim " and " b_wptr
pointers.  This value could be negative, but should not normally be less than zero.
.TP
.BI MBLKIN( mp ", " off ", " len )
Tests and returns a boolean indicating whether the offset and length provided defines a region that
is contained within the message block.
.TP
.BI OFFSET( base ", " p )
Returns the offset of pointer,
.IR  p ,
from the base pointer,
.IR base .
.SH FUNCTIONS
.PP
The following message block utility functions are provided,
(each of these functions accept a message block pointer as an argument, or are otherwise useful in
manipulating the data buffer):
.TP \w'\ msgpullup_physreq(9)\ \-\ 'u
.BR adjmsg "(9)\ \-\ 
trim bytes from the front or back of a message
.PD 0
.TP
.BR allocb "(9)\ \-\ 
allocate a message and data block
.TP
.BR allocb_physreq "(9)\ \-\ 
allocate a message and data block
.TP
.BR alloc_proto "(9)\ \-\ 
allocate a PROTO message
.TP
.BR appq "(9)\ \-\ 
append a message after another
.TP
.BR bcopy "(9)\ \-\ 
copy byte strings
.TP
.BR bufcall "(9)\ \-\ 
install a buffer callback
.TP
.BR bzero "(9)\ \-\ 
zero a byte string
.TP
.BR copyb "(9)\ \-\ 
copy a message block
.TP
.BR copyin "(9)\ \-\ 
copy bytes from user to kernel
.TP
.BR copymsg "(9)\ \-\ 
copy a message
.TP
.BR copyout "(9)\ \-\ 
copy bytes from kernel to user
.TP
.BR datamsg "(9)\ \-\ 
tests a message type for data
.TP
.BR dupb "(9)\ \-\ 
duplicate a message block
.TP
.BR dupmsg "(9)\ \-\ 
duplicate a message
.TP
.BR esballoc "(9)\ \-\ 
allocate a message and data block with a caller supplied data buffer
.TP
.BR esbbcall "(9)\ \-\ 
installs a buffer callback for an extended message block
.TP
.BR freeb "(9)\ \-\ 
frees a message block
.TP
.BR freemsg "(9)\ \-\ 
frees a message
.TP
.BR getq "(9)\ \-\ 
gets a message from a message queue
.TP
.BR insq "(9)\ \-\ 
inserts a message into a message queue
.TP
.BR isdatablk "(9)\ \-\ 
tests a data block for data type
.TP
.BR isdatamsg "(9)\ \-\ 
tests a data block for data type
.TP
.BR linkb "(9)\ \-\ 
link a message block to a message
.TP
.BR linkmsg "(9)\ \-\ 
link a message block to a message
.TP
.BR mi_bufcall "(9)\ \-\ 
reliable alternative to \fBbufcall\fP(9)
.TP
.BR msgdsize "(9)\ \-\ 
calculate the size of the data in a message
.TP
.BR msgphysreq "(9)\ \-\ 
physical alignement request structure
.TP
.BR msgpullup "(9)\ \-\ 
pull up bytes in a message
.TP
.BR msgpullup_physreq "(9)\ \-\ 
pull up bytes in a message with physical requirements
.TP
.BR msgscgth "(9)\ \-\ 
message scatter-gather structure
.TP
.BR msgsize "(9)\ \-\ 
calculate the size of the message blocks in a message
.TP
.BR pcmsg "(9)\ \-\ 
determine priority of a message
.TP
.BR pullupmsg "(9)\ \-\ 
pull up the bytes in a message
.TP
.BR put "(9)\ \-\ 
invokes a message queue put procedure
.TP
.BR putbq "(9)\ \-\ 
puts a message back on a message queue
.TP
.BR putctl1 "(9)\ \-\ 
puts a 1 byte control message on a message queue
.TP
.BR putctl2 "(9)\ \-\ 
puts a 2 byte control message on a message queue
.TP
.BR putctl "(9)\ \-\ 
puts a control message on a message queue
.TP
.BR puthere (9)\ \-\ 
invokes a message queue put procedure
.TP
.BR putnext "(9)\ \-\ 
puts a message on the next message queue
.TP
.BR putnextctl1 "(9)\ \-\ 
puts a 1 byte control message on the next message queue
.TP
.BR putnextctl2 "(9)\ \-\ 
puts a 2 byte control message on the next message queue
.TP
.BR putnextctl "(9)\ \-\ 
puts a control message on the next message queue
.TP
.BR putq "(9)\ \-\ 
puts a message on a message queue
.TP
.BR qbufcall "(9)\ \-\ 
install a synchronous buffer callback
.TP
.BR queclass "(9)\ \-\ 
return the class of a message
.TP
.BR qunbufcall "(9)\ \-\ 
cancel a synchronous buffer callback
.TP
.BR rmvb "(9)\ \-\ 
remove a message block from a message
.TP
.BR rmvq "(9)\ \-\ 
remove a message from a message queue
.TP
.BR testb "(9)\ \-\ 
test is a message can be allocated
.TP
.BR unbufcall "(9)\ \-\ 
removes a buffer callback
.TP
.BR unlinkb "(9)\ \-\ 
unlink a message block from a message
.TP
.BR wantmsg "(9)\ \-\ 
provide a filter of wanted messages for a module
.TP
.BR xmsgsize "(9)\ \-\ 
calculate the size of message blocks in a message
.PD
.PP
See the corresponding manual page for each utility for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I STREAMS
messages are composed of a 3-type consisting of message block
.RB ( msgb
structure), data block
.RB ( datab (9)
structure) and an associated internal, external, or extended, data buffer.
Message blocks
.RB ( msgb
structures) form an instance of a reference to a data block,
.BR datab (9),
and associated data buffer.
As such, the
.B msgb
structure contains information pertaining to the reference instance.
.PP
The
.IR b_datap ,
.IR b_rptr ,
.IR b_wptr ,
and
.IR b_cont ,
members are significant in each message block in a message block chain.
.PP
.I b_datap
points to the
.BR datab (9)
data block structure which has an associated data buffer.
See
.BR datab (9)
for more information on data blocks.
.PP
.I b_rptr
and
.I b_wptr
point into the data buffer to delimit the bytes of the buffer pertinent to the reference.
.I b_rptr
is the read-pointer and points where bytes are to be read from the buffer.
.I b_wptr
is the write-pointer and points where bytes are to be written to the buffer.
.PP
.I b_cont
is used to link message blocks together to form a message block chain representing a
.I STREAMS
message.
.PP
Typically, the
.IR b_next ,
.IR b_prev ,
.IR b_band ,
and
.IR b_flag ,
members are only significant in the first message block of a message block chain, and are considered
to apply to the entire chain of message blocks along the
.I b_cont
member.
.PP
.I b_next
and
.I b_prev
are used to link the (initial) message block (of a message block chain) onto a message
.BR queue (9).
.I b_next
points to the next message on the message queue, or
.B NULL
if the message is at the tail of the message queue.
.I b_prev
points to the previous message on the message queue, or
.B NULL
if the message is at the head of the message queue.
.PP
.I b_band
indicates the queuing priority when the message is placed on a message queue.
.PP
.I b_flag
contains some flags that can be used to mark a set of binary conditions on a message block or
message.
See the description of these flags under
.RI \(lq Flags \(rq,
below.
.SS Flags
Message flags are significant in the first message block of a message, and are contained in the
.I b_flag
member of the
.B msgb
structure forming the first message block.  The available flags are as follows:
.\".TP \w'MSGNOTMARKNEXT\(em'u
.TP
.B MSGMARK
.B MSGMARK
is recognized by the Stream head.
.B MSGMARK
indicates that the last bye of the message is marked.  Marked mesages identify out-of-band data to
the Stream head.  Marked messages terminate the
.BR read (2s)
of unmarked messages, generating a short read, as an indication to the reader that an out-of-band
condition has occurred.  The
.BR I_ATMARK (7)
input-output control command can be used to determine whether the data stream is positioned at a
marked message, and whether there are further marked messages in the receive buffer.  When
positioned at a marked message, subsequent reads will consume marked messages.
.IP ""
The
.B MSGMARK
flag is set by drivers and modules and is recognized by the Stream head.  The flag is only useful
for messages sent upstream to the Stream head.
For details, see
.BR I_ATMARK (7)
and
.BR read (2s).
.TP
.B MSGNOLOOP
The
.B MSGNOLOOP
flag is set by the Stream head and recognized by the Stream head.  The
Stream head sets the
.B MSGNOLOOP
flag on received
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
messages looped back downstream from the Stream head.  If an
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
message marked with
.B MSGNOLOOP
arrives at the Stream head, the Stream head will not loop the message back downstream, but will
discard (ignore and free) it.
The Stream head ignores the
.B MSGNOLOOP
flag on messages of type other than
.BR M_FLUSH (9).
.IP ""
This flag should not be modified by drivers and modules.
For details, see
.BR M_FLUSH (9).
.TP
.B MSGDELIM
The
.B MSGDELIM
flag is both placed on messages in the data stream generated by the Stream head, as well as
recognized by the Stream head in received messages in the data stream.  When the
.B SO_DELIM
option is set on the Stream head using
.BR M_SETOPTS (9),
the Stream head will mark the last data message of a complete
.BR write (2s)
operation with
.B MSGDELIM
as an indication to downstream drivers and modules of record delineation.
When the Stream head receives a data message with the
.B MSGDELIM
flag, the message will terminate a
.BR read (2s)
operation, with a short read.  Zero-length messages received with the
.B MSGDELIM
flag set will terminate a read and be removed from the receive queue.  (Normally, zero-length
messages are left on the receive queue for a subsequent read.)
.IP ""
Modules and drivers may also generate or recognize messages marked with
.BR MSGDELIM .
For details, see
.BR M_SETOPTS (9),
.BR write (2s),
and
.BR read (2s).
.TP
.B MSGNOGET
The
.B MSGNOGET
flag is defined in early header files for
.IR MacOT \(rg,
.[
macspg
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7spg
.]
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
.[
uxpspg
.]
and it is commented that this flag tells
.BR getq (9)
not to return the message.  However, this flag is poorly documented, and does not appear to be
implemented.  It may have orignally been used to pin a message on the Stream head receive queue for
.BR read (2s)
processing with multiple readers, but has fallen out of use.
.BR getq (9)
does not recognize this flag.
.PP
The remaining flags are implementation specific and not defined by
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.TP
.B MSGATTEN
.IR UXP/V \(rg
.[
uxpspg
.]
defines this flag and it is described as
indicating attention to the read side (whatever that means).
The flag is poorly documented.
It might be intended to terminate a
.BR read (2s)
early, without having to generate an
.BR M_SIG (9)
message upstream, and without actually generating a signal and causing
.BR read (2s)
to fail.
Although
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
defines the flag, the Stream head does not recognize it.
.TP
.B MSGMARKNEXT
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
solspg
.]
defines this flag and uses it during Stream head processing of messages marked with
.BR MSGMARK .
The flag is poorly documented.
Its use appears to be private to the Stream head read queue, and this flag should not be set by
drivers and modules.
Although
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
defines the flag, the Stream head does not recognize it.
.TP
.B MSGLOG
.IR UnixWare \(rg:
.[
uw7spg
.]
defines this flag and it is commented that the message is to be logged on arrival (whatever that
means).
The flag is poorly documented.
It might be intended to request that the Stream head log the message when it arrives in some
fashion.
.IP ""
The flag would then be generated by a driver or module and recognized by the Stream head.
Although
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
defines the flag, the Stream head does not recognize it.
.TP
.B MSGNOTMARKNEXT
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
solspg
.]
defines this flags and uses it during Stream head processing of messages marked with
.BR MSGMARK .
The flag is poorly documented.
Its use appears to be private to the Stream head read queue, and this flag should not be set by
drivers and modules.
Although
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
defines the flag, the Stream head does not recognize it.
.TP
.B MSGCOMPRESS
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfspg
.]
defines this flag and it is commented that this flag request that like messages be compressed as
space allows (whatever that means).
The flag is poorly documented.
It is possible that this flag is sent to the Stream head or intermediate module when a steady stream
of identical messages is the norm (e.g., this is often the case for Level 2 processing in
.IR "Signalling System No. 7" ).
Any like messages queued could simply have a repeat count incremeneted and the copy discarded.
.IP ""
This flag could be generated and recognized by Stream head, drivers or modules.
Although
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
defines the flag, the Stream head does not recognize it.
.TP
.B MSGNOTIFY
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixspg
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfspg
.]
and
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
define this flag and, in those implementations, it is recognized by the Stream head.
The flag is poorly documented, however, when a message marked with the
.B MSGNOTIFY
flag is received, the Stream head generates an
.BR M_NOTIFY (9)
message downstream to notify the driver or module that the message marked with
.B MSGNOTIFY
has been read by a user level process.
.IP ""
Modules and drivers can set this flag on messages sent to the Stream head.
Although
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
defines the flag, the Stream head does not recognize it.
For details, see
.BR M_NOTIFY (9).
.TP
.B MSGCSUM
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
defines this flag.  When checksumming is set on the Stream head with the
.B SO_CSUM
option flag set in a
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message, the Stream head performs TCP/UDP partial checksum while copying in the data portion of a
.BR write (2s)-like
operation and places the partial checsum result in the
.I b_csum
member of the
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block and sets this
.B MSGCSUM
flag in the
.I b_flag
member of the message block to indicate the validity of the partial checksum.
.TP
.B MSGCRC32C
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
defines this flag.  When checksumming is set on the Stream head with the
.B SO_CRC32C
option flag set in a
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message, the Stream head performs SCTP partial checksum while copying in the data portion of a
.BR write (2s)-like
operation and places the partial checsum result in the
.I b_csum
member of the
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block and sets this
.B MSGCRC32C
flag in the
.I b_flag
member of the message block to indicate the validity of the partial checksum.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Ever modifying the
.IR b_datap
pointer, can have dire consequences.  Modifying the
.IR b_next ,
.IR b_prev ,
.IR b_cont ,
.IR b_rptr ,
.IR b_wptr ,
.IR b_band ,
or
.IR b_flag ,
members of a message block while the message exists on a message queue, can have dire consequences.
These members must be treated as read-only by drivers and modules whenever the message is on a
message queue.  To modify these members, the message must first be removed from any message queue.
.PP
The
.I b_next
and
.I b_prev
pointers can be modified while the message exists stand-alone; however, any values the module or
driver may have assigned to these pointers in the first message block of a message will be
overwritten when the message is placed on a message queue.
The
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR putbq (9),
utility functions place a message on a message queue.
.PP
The
.I b_wptr
and
.I b_rptr
pointers can be modified on stand-alone messages.
The
.BR pullupmsg (9),
.BR msgpullup (9),
.BR msgsize (9),
.BR msgdsize (9),
.BR xmsgsize (9),
message utility functions are useful for manipulating or examining these pointers.
.PP
THe
.I b_cont
pointer can be modified on stand-alone messages to link message chains.
The
.BR rmvb (9),
.BR linkb (9),
.BR unlinkb (9),
.BR linkmsg (9),
and
.BR unlinkmsg (9),
message utilities are useful for manipulating the
.I b_cont
pointer.
.PP
.I b_band
may be modified while the message exists stand-alone; however, when a high priority message is
placed on a message queue, this member will always be overwritten with zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.SS "Macros"
The following macros are available in
.RB < sys/strsun.h >
and are
.IR Solaris \(rg
macros that are used to perform some simple operations on message blocks:
.TP
.BI MBLKL( mp )
Returns the length of the message block as a difference between the
.IR b_wptr " and " b_rptr
pointers.  This value could be negative.
.TP
.BI MBLKSIZE( mp )
Returns the available length from the data block as a difference between the
.IR db_lim " and " db_base
pointers.  This value could be negative.  See also
.BR datab (9).
.TP
.BI MBLKHEAD( mp )
Returns the available headroom in the data block as a difference between the
.IR b_rptr " and " db_base
pointers.  This value could be negative, but should not normally be less than zero.
.TP
.BI MBLKTAIL( mp )
Returns the available headroom in the data block as a difference between the
.IR db_lim " and " b_wptr
pointers.  This value could be negative, but should not normally be less than zero.
.TP
.BI MBLKIN( mp ", " off ", " len )
Tests and returns a boolean indicating whether the offset and length provided defines a region that
is contained within the message block.
.TP
.BI OFFSET( base ", " p )
Returns the offset of pointer,
.IR  p ,
from the base pointer,
.IR base .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
Functions that operate on a message or data block can be called from any
context.  However, it is the caller's responsibility to ensure that the
calling thread has exclusive access to the message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
All
.I STREAMS
utility functions that operate on or manipulate
.B msgb
message blocks, assume that the caller has exclusive access to the passed in message block pointer.
When a message is placed to a queue, or the reference is otherwise passed to the called function,
it is the obligation of the caller to relinquish any references invalidated by the call.
.PP
Most of the issues associated with messages impinge of the data block.
See
.BR datab (9)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Members of the
.B msgb
structure should not be accessed directly by
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.  Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should, where possible, use the facilities provided for
implementation and architectural independence.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR adjmsg (9),
.BR allocb (9),
.BR allocb_physreq (9),
.BR alloc_proto (9),
.BR appq (9),
.BR bcopy (9),
.BR bufcall (9),
.BR bzero (9),
.BR copyb (9),
.BR copyin (9),
.BR copymsg (9),
.BR copyout (9),
.BR datamsg (9),
.BR dupb (9),
.BR dupmsg (9),
.BR esballoc (9),
.BR esbbcall (9),
.BR freeb (9),
.BR freemsg (9),
.BR getq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR isdatablk (9),
.BR isdatamsg (9),
.BR linkb (9),
.BR linkmsg (9),
.BR mi_bufcall (9),
.BR msgdsize (9),
.BR msgphysreq (9),
.BR msgpullup (9),
.BR msgpullup_physreq (9),
.BR msgscgth (9),
.BR msgsize (9),
.BR pcmsg (9),
.BR pullupmsg (9),
.BR put (9),
.BR putbq (9),
.BR putctl1 (9),
.BR putctl2 (9),
.BR putctl (9),
.BR puthere (9),
.BR putnext (9),
.BR putnextctl1 (9),
.BR putnextctl2 (9),
.BR putnextctl (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR qbufcall (9),
.BR queclass (9),
.BR qunbufcall (9),
.BR rmvb (9),
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR testb (9),
.BR unbufcall (9),
.BR unlinkb (9),
.BR wantmsg (9),
.BR xmsgsize (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B msgb
structure is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42spg
.]
has a
.B long
.I b_pad2
member at the end of the structure.  So do many implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
Some implementations use this padding for its own purposes.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
has removed the added padding so that the resulting 3-tuple can be cache-aligned on both 32-bit and
64-bit architectures, also so that the internal buffer can be a minimum of 64-bytes on 32-bit
architectures, and 128-bytes on 64-bit architectures.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not rely on the overall size of a message block, nor access fields intended
as padding.
.IP \(em
The flags defined for the
.I b_flag
member of the
.B msgb
structure are not necessarily binary compatible with any given implementation.
.IP ""
.IP ""
.IP ""
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 EFT MP" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B msgb
structure was introduced in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
