'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: os7compat.9.man,v 0.9.2.4 2006/10/06 12:13:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/06 12:13:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: os7compat.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/10/06 12:13:05  brian
.\" - updated manual pages to pass make check and for release
.\" - updated release files for release
.\" - added missing MacOT OSF/1 and MPS compatibility functions
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/05 12:15:45  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/04/05 09:43:34  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH OS7COMPAT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B os7compat
\- OpenSS7 \fISTREAMS\fR Compatibility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _OS7_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides a compatibility module,
.BR streams-os7compat.o ,
that provides compatibility functions that smooth porting of drivers from the
.I OpenSS7
.I STREAMS
environment to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
The functions provided by this compatibility module are described here.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
None of the functions that are provided by
.I OpenSS7
are also provided by the core
.B streams.o
kernel module of
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
Other
.I OpenSS7
functions are provided by the
.B streams-os7compat.o
compatibility kernel module.
.\"
.\"
.\".SS "Core Functions"
.\".PP
.\"Functions that are already available in
.\".B Linux Fast STREAMS
.\"are as follows:
.\"
.SS "Specific Functions"
.PP
Functions that are available in the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.I OpenSS7
compatibility module,
.BR streams-os7compat.o ,
are as follows:
.HP
.BR bufq_append (9)\ \-\ \c
append a buffer to a buffer queue.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR bufq_dequeue (9)\ \-\ \c
dequeue a buffer from the head a buffer queue.
.HP
.BR bufq_dequeue_tail (9)\ \-\ \c
dequeue a buffer from the tail of a buffer queue.
.HP
.BR bufq_freehead (9)\ \-\ \c
free the buffer at the head of a buffer queue.
.HP
.BR bufq_head (9)\ \-\ \c
return the buffer at the head of a queue.
.HP
.BR bufq_init (9)\ \-\ \c
initialize a buffer queue reference structure.
.HP
.BR bufq_insert (9)\ \-\ \c
insert a buffer into a buffer queue.
.HP
.BR bufq_length (9)\ \-\ \c
determine the length of a buffer queue.
.HP
.BR bufq_lock (9)\ \-\ \c
lock a buffer queue.
.HP
.BR bufq_purge (9)\ \-\ \c
purge the buffers from a buffer queue.
.HP
.BR bufq_queue (9)\ \-\ \c
queue a buffer to the tail of a buffer queue.
.HP
.BR bufq_queue_head (9)\ \-\ \c
queue a buffer to the head of a buffer queue.
.HP
.BR bufq_resupply (9)\ \-\ \c
resupply buffers to a buffer pool.
.HP
.BR bufq_size (9)\ \-\ \c
determine the size of a buffer queue.
.HP
.BR bufq_splice_head (9)\ \-\ \c
splice a buffer queue onto the head of another.
.HP
.BR bufq_splice_tail (9)\ \-\ \c
splice a buffer queue onto the tail of another.
.HP
.BR bufq_supply (9)\ \-\ \c
supply buffers to a buffer pool.
.HP
.BR bufq_tail (9)\ \-\ \c
return the buffer at the tail of a queue.
.HP
.BR bufq_unlink (9)\ \-\ \c
remove a specific buffer from a queue.
.HP
.BR bufq_unlock (9)\ \-\ \c
unlock a buffer queue.
.HP
.BR freechunks (9)\ \-\ \c
free message chunks chained together
.HP
.BR ss7_allocb (9)\ \-\ \c
allocate a buffer with bufcall fallback.
.HP
.BR ss7_bufcall (9)\ \-\ \c
allocate a buffer callback.
.HP
.BR ss7_bufpool_init (9)\ \-\ \c
initialize a buffer pool.
.HP
.BR ss7_bufpool_release (9)\ \-\ \c
release buffers from a buffer pool.
.HP
.BR ss7_bufpool_reserve (9)\ \-\ \c
reserve messages in a buffer pool.
.HP
.BR ss7_bufpool_term (9)\ \-\ \c
terminate a buffer pool.
.HP
.BR ss7_bufsrv (9)\ \-\ \c
service a buffer pool.
.HP
.BR ss7_copyb (9)\ \-\ \c
copy a block with bufcall fallback.
.HP
.BR ss7_copymsg (9)\ \-\ \c
copy a message with bufcall fallback.
.HP
.BR ss7_do_timeout (9)\ \-\ \c
process a timeout.
.HP
.BR ss7_dupb (9)\ \-\ \c
duplicate a block with bufcall fallback.
.HP
.BR ss7_dupmsg (9)\ \-\ \c
duplicate a message with bufcall fallback.
.HP
.BR ss7_esballoc (9)\ \-\ \c
extended allocate a message block with bufcall fallback.
.HP
.BR ss7_esbbcall (9)\ \-\ \c
extended message block buffer callback.
.HP
.BR ss7_fast_allocb (9)\ \-\ \c
allocate a message block from a fast buffer pool.
.HP
.BR ss7_fast_allocb_bh (9)\ \-\ \c
allocate a message block from a fast buffer poll atomic.
.HP
.BR ss7_fast_freeb (9)\ \-\ \c
free a message block to a fast buffer pool.
.HP
.BR ss7_fast_freeb_bh (9)\ \-\ \c
free a message block to a fast buffer poll atomic.
.HP
.BR ss7_fast_freemsg (9)\ \-\ \c
free a message to a fast buffer pool.
.HP
.BR ss7_fast_freemsg_bh (9)\ \-\ \c
free a message to a fast buffer pool atomic.
.HP
.BR ss7_iput (9)\ \-\ \c
process input queue put procedure.
.HP
.BR ss7_isrv (9)\ \-\ \c
process input queue service procedure.
.HP
.BR ss7_oput (9)\ \-\ \c
process output queue put procedure.
.HP
.BR ss7_osrv (9)\ \-\ \c
process output queue service procedure.
.HP
.BR ss7_pullupmsg (9)\ \-\ \c
pullup a message with bufcall fallback.
.HP
.BR ss7_putq (9)\ \-\ \c
process put procedures for a queue.
.HP
.BR ss7_r_flush (9)\ \-\ \c
process
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
on the read side.
.HP
.BR ss7_srvq (9)\ \-\ \c
process service procedures for a queue.
.HP
.BR ss7_start_timer (9)\ \-\ \c
start a timer safely.
.HP
.BR ss7_stop_timer (9)\ \-\ \c
stop a timer safely.
.HP
.BR ss7_trylockq (9)\ \-\ \c
try to lock a queue.
.HP
.BR ss7_unbufcall (9)\ \-\ \c
cancel a buffer callback.
.HP
.BR ss7_unlockq (9)\ \-\ \c
unlock a queue.
.HP
.BR ss7_w_flush (9)\ \-\ \c
process
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
on the write side.
.PD
.\"
.\".SS "Transport Functions"
.\".PP
.\".PD 0
.\".PD
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.I OpenSS7
compatibility functions provide convenience functions used by the
.I OpenSS7 SS7 Stack
and eventually placed in this
.I OpenSS7
.I STREAMS
compatibility module.
These functions fall into two major groups:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
Buffer queue functions for taking
.B msgb (9)
structure message blocks and message block chains on and off private buffer
queues.
.IP 2.
Queue functions for processing of put, service, timeout and buffer callbacks
in a multi-processing environment.  These functions replace large sections of
common code across mutliple modules and drivers.
.PP
These functions are originally intended to be used internal to the
.IR "OpenSS7 SS7 Stack" .
They may, however, be useful to others implementing modules and drivers.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Most of these functions return zero
.RB ( 0 )
on success, or a positive number, and a negative
error number on failure.
See the individual function manual page for details.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Functions that return negative error numbers return error numbers defined
under
.BR errno (3),
but negated.
See the individual function manual page for details.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
All of these functions are safe to use in any context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
When used properly, all of these functions are MP-safe, regardless of calling context.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
These are
.IR OpenSS7 -specific
functions:
.B _OS7_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose these symbols.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_OS7
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_OS7_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IOCTLS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH SYSCTLS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\".PP
.\"Core functions:
.PP
Compatibility functions:
.BR bufq_append (9),
.BR bufq_dequeue (9),
.BR bufq_dequeue_tail (9),
.BR bufq_freehead (9),
.BR bufq_head (9),
.BR bufq_init (9),
.BR bufq_insert (9),
.BR bufq_length (9),
.BR bufq_lock (9),
.BR bufq_purge (9),
.BR bufq_queue (9),
.BR bufq_queue_head (9),
.BR bufq_resupply (9),
.BR bufq_size (9),
.BR bufq_splice_head (9),
.BR bufq_splice_tail (9),
.BR bufq_supply (9),
.BR bufq_tail (9),
.BR bufq_unlink (9),
.BR bufq_unlock (9),
.BR freechunks (9),
.BR ss7_allocb (9),
.BR ss7_bufcall (9),
.BR ss7_bufpool_init (9),
.BR ss7_bufpool_release (9),
.BR ss7_bufpool_reserve (9),
.BR ss7_bufpool_term (9),
.BR ss7_bufsrv (9),
.BR ss7_copyb (9),
.BR ss7_copymsg (9),
.BR ss7_do_timeout (9),
.BR ss7_dupb (9),
.BR ss7_dupmsg (9),
.BR ss7_esballoc (9),
.BR ss7_esbbcall (9),
.BR ss7_fast_allocb (9),
.BR ss7_fast_allocb_bh (9),
.BR ss7_fast_freeb (9),
.BR ss7_fast_freeb_bh (9),
.BR ss7_fast_freemsg (9),
.BR ss7_fast_freemsg_bh (9),
.BR ss7_iput (9),
.BR ss7_isrv (9),
.BR ss7_oput (9),
.BR ss7_osrv (9),
.BR ss7_pullupmsg (9),
.BR ss7_putq (9),
.BR ss7_r_flush (9),
.BR ss7_srvq (9),
.BR ss7_start_timer (9),
.BR ss7_stop_timer (9),
.BR ss7_trylockq (9),
.BR ss7_unbufcall (9),
.BR ss7_unlockq (9),
.BR ss7_w_flush (9).
.\".PP
.\"Transport functions:
.PP
General:
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
These functions have no known bugs.  Behaviour is not explicitly validated.
Behaviour is implicitly validated when modules and drivers using these
functions are validated.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
These functions are compatible with
.I OpenSS7
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
These are
.IR OpenSS7 -specific
functions and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The more common
.I SVR 4.2 MP
functions should be used in their stead.
.IP \(em
These functions
are provided for source level compatibility with
.I OpenSS7
for the purpose of porting
.I OpenSS7
drivers to
.BR Linux .
.IP \(em
These functions
only provide functionality comparable to
.I OpenSS7
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
these functions
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.I OpenSS7
DDI documentation.  Conformance is not explicitly verified.  Conformance is
verified implicitly when modules and drivers using these functions are
verified.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Most of these functions
first appeared in
.IR OpenSS7 .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
