'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: osfcompat.9.man,v 0.9.2.5 2005/07/04 19:28:48 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/07/04 19:28:48 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strcompat.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH OSFCOMPAT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B osfcompat
\- OSF/1 \fISTREAMS\fR Compatibility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _OSF_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
provides a compatibility module,
.BR streams-osfcompat.o ,
that provides compatibility functions that smooth porting of drivers from the
.I Mac OpenTransport 1.5r2
.I STREAMS
environment to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
The functions provided by this compatibility module are described here.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Many of the functions that are provided by
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
are also provided by the core
.B streams.o
kernel module of
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
Other
.IR OSF/1 \(rg-specific
functions are provided by the
.B streams-osfcompat.o
compatibility kernel module.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Core Functions"
.PP
Functions that are already available in
.B Linux Fast STREAMS
are as follows:
.HP
.BR adjmsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Removes the specified number of bytes from a message.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR allocb (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocates a message block.
.HP
.BR backq (9)\ \-\ \c
Gets a pointer to the previous queue.
.HP
.BR bcanput (9)\ \-\ \c
Tests for flow control in a specified priority band.
.HP
.BR bcmp (9)\ \-\ \c
Compares two byte strings.
.HP
.BR bcopy (9)\ \-\ \c
Copies a series of bytes with a specified limit.
.HP
.BR bzero (9)\ \-\ \c
Zeros a block of memory.
.HP
.BR bufcall (9)\ \-\ \c
Gets a buffer when allocb fails.
.HP
.BR canput (9)\ \-\ \c
Tests for room in a message queue.
.HP
.BR copyb (9)\ \-\ \c
Copies a message block.
.HP
.BR copyin (9)\ \-\ \c
Copies data from a user address space to a kernel address space.
.HP
.BR copyout (9)\ \-\ \c
Copies data from a kernel address space to a user address space.
.HP
.BR copymsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Copies a message to a new message.
.HP
.BR datamsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Tests whether a message is a data message.
.HP
.BR dupb (9)\ \-\ \c
Duplicates a message block descriptor.
.HP
.BR dupmsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Duplicates a message.
.HP
.BR enableok (9)\ \-\ \c
Enables a queue for service.
.HP
.BR esballoc (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocates a message block with a shared buffer.
.HP
.BR flushband (9)\ \-\ \c
Flushes messages for a specified priority band.
.HP
.BR flushq (9)\ \-\ \c
Removes a message from a queue.
.HP
.BR freeb (9)\ \-\ \c
Frees a message block.
.HP
.BR freemsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Frees all message blocks in a message.
.HP
.BR getq (9)\ \-\ \c
Gets a message from the front of the queue.
.HP
.BR insq (9)\ \-\ \c
Inserts a STREAMS message into a queue.
.HP
.BR linkb (9)\ \-\ \c
Concatenates two message blocks.
.HP
.BR major (9)\ \-\ \c
Returns the device major number.
.HP
.BR makedev (9)\ \-\ \c
Returns a dev_t.
.HP
.BR minor (9)\ \-\ \c
Returns the device minor number.
.HP
.BR msgdsize (9)\ \-\ \c
Returns the number of bytes in a message.
.HP
.BR noenable (9)\ \-\ \c
Prevents a queue from being scheduled.
.HP
.BR OTHERQ (9)\ \-\ \c
Gets a pointer to a module's other queue.
.HP
.BR pullupmsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Concatenates bytes in a message.
.HP
.BR putbq (9)\ \-\ \c
Places a message at the head of a queue.
.HP
.BR putctl (9)\ \-\ \c
Puts a control message on a queue.
.HP
.BR putctl1 (9)\ \-\ \c
Puts a control message on a queue.
.HP
.BR putnext (9)\ \-\ \c
Sends a message to the next module in the stream.
.HP
.BR putq (9)\ \-\ \c
Puts a message on a queue.
.HP
.BR qenable (9)\ \-\ \c
Enables a queue.
.HP
.BR qreply (9)\ \-\ \c
Sends a message in the reverse direction.
.HP
.BR qsize (9)\ \-\ \c
Finds the number of messages on a queue.
.HP
.BR RD (9)\ \-\ \c
Gets a pointer to a module's read queue.
.HP
.BR rmalloc (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocates size units from the given resource map.
.HP
.BR rmfree (9)\ \-\ \c
Frees space previously allocated into the specified resource map.
.HP
.BR rmget (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocates size units from the given resource map.
.HP
.BR rminit (9)\ \-\ \c
Initializes a resource map.
.HP
.BR rmvb (9)\ \-\ \c
Removes a message block from a message block.
.HP
.BR rmvq (9)\ \-\ \c
Removes a message block from a queue.
.HP
.BR sleep (9)\ \-\ \c
Puts a calling process to sleep.
.HP
.BR spl (9)\ \-\ \c
Sets the processor priority to mask different levels of interrupts.
.HP
.BR strlog (9)\ \-\ \c
Submits messages for logging.
.HP
.BR strqget (9)\ \-\ \c
Gets information about a queue.
.HP
.BR strqset (9)\ \-\ \c
Changes information about a queue.
.HP
.BR testb (9)\ \-\ \c
Checks for an available buffer.
.HP
.BR timeout (9)\ \-\ \c
Initializes a callout queue element.
.HP
.BR uiomove (9)\ \-\ \c
Moves data between user and system virtual space.
.HP
.BR unbufcall (9)\ \-\ \c
Cancels a pending bufcall request.
.HP
.BR unlinkb (9)\ \-\ \c
Removes a message block from the head of a message.
.HP
.BR untimeout (9)\ \-\ \c
Removes the scheduled interface from the callout queues.
.HP
.BR vtop (9)\ \-\ \c
Converts any virtual address to a physical address.
.HP
.BR wakeup (9)\ \-\ \c
Wakes up all processes sleeping on a specified address.
.HP
.BR WR (9)\ \-\ \c
Gets a pointer to this module's write queue.
.PD
.\"
.SS "Specific Functions"
.PP
Functions that are available in the
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
compatibility module,
.BR streams-osfcompat.o ,
are as follows:
.HP
.BR DELAY (9)\ \-\ \c
Delays the calling interface a specified number of microseconds.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR lbolt (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR MALLOC (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocates a variable-size section of kernel virtual memory.
.HP
.BR printf (9)\ \-\ \c
Prints text to the console and the error logger.
.HP
.BR puthere (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR streams_close_comm (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR streams_open_comm (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR streams_open_ocomm (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR time (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR uprintf (9)\ \-\ \c Is a nonsleeping kernel printf function.
.PD
.\"
.SS "Transport Functions"
.PP
.PD 0
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
These are
.IR OSF/1 \(rg-specific
functions:
.B _OSF_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose these symbols.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_OSF
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_OSF_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SYSCTLS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
Core functions:
.BR adjmsg (9),
.PD 0
.BR allocb (9),
.BR backq (9),
.BR bcanput (9),
.BR bcmp (9),
.BR bcopy (9),
.BR bzero (9),
.BR bufcall (9),
.BR canput (9),
.BR copyb (9),
.BR copyin (9),
.BR copyout (9),
.BR copymsg (9),
.BR datamsg (9),
.BR dupb (9),
.BR dupmsg (9),
.BR enableok (9),
.BR esballoc (9),
.BR flushband (9),
.BR flushq (9),
.BR freeb (9),
.BR freemsg (9),
.BR getq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR linkb (9),
.BR major (9),
.BR makedev (9),
.BR minor (9),
.BR msgdsize (9),
.BR noenable (9),
.BR OTHERQ (9),
.BR pullupmsg (9),
.BR putbq (9),
.BR putctl (9),
.BR putctl1 (9),
.BR putnext (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR qenable (9),
.BR qreply (9),
.BR qsize (9),
.BR RD (9),
.BR rmalloc (9),
.BR rmfree (9),
.BR rmget (9),
.BR rminit (9),
.BR rmvb (9),
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR sleep (9),
.BR spl (9),
.BR strlog (9),
.BR strqget (9),
.BR strqset (9),
.BR testb (9),
.BR timeout (9),
.BR uiomove (9),
.BR unbufcall (9),
.BR unlinkb (9),
.BR untimeout (9),
.BR vtop (9),
.BR wakeup (9),
.BR WR (9).
.PP
Compatibility functions:
.BR DELAY (9),
.BR MALLOC (9),
.BR printf (9),
.BR uprintf (9).
.PP
Transport functions:
.PP
General:
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
These functions are compatible with
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
These are
.IR OSF/1 \(rg-specific
functions and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The more common
.I SVR 4.2 MP
functions should be used in their stead.
.IP \(em
These functions
are provided for source level compatibility with
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
These functions
only provide functionality comparable to
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
these functions
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
osfdoc
.]
.[
osfspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Most of these functions
first appeared in
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.
Functions with name starting with
.I mi_
are probably Mentat, Inc. functions that goe all the way back to the
.RI pre- OSF/1
.I Mentat
implementations.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
