'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: quntimeout.9.man,v 0.9.2.10 2006/10/05 12:15:45 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/05 12:15:45 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: quntimeout.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2006/10/05 12:15:45  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/04/05 10:05:04  brian
.\" - get references in right place
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:43:34  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH QUNTIMEOUT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B quntimeout
\- stop a timer
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi>
.br
.B #include <sys/sunddi.h>
.HP
.BI "clock_t quntimeout(queue_t *" q ", timeout_id_t " toid );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue with which the original call to
.BR qtimeout (9)
was associated.
.TP
.I toid
the non-zero timeout call id returned by the associated call to
.BR qtimeout (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
cancels the timeout callback that was initiated using
.BR qtimeout (9).
.I toid
is the timeout callback identifier that was returned from a previous call to
.BR qtimeout (9)
with the queue
.IR q .
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
is typically used to remove outstanding timeout call when a stream is closing
or to cancel protocol timers.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
returns the amount of time left on the timer before the timeout would have
occurred in system ticks.
When the timer was cancelled before expiry, the return value is positive.
When the timer was has already expired, the return value is zero.
When the timer could not be found, the return value is negative.
.PP
The return value should be ignored by portable
programs.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
fails if the buffer callback identified by
.I toid
no longer exists (has executed); or,
.I toid
is invalid.
When
.BR quntimeout ()
fails, it returns minus one (-1).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function:
.B _SUN_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this
symbol.
.PP
.BR untimeout (9)
can be used to cancel a timeout call installed with
.BR qtimeout (9).
.PP
The
.I q
argument to
.BR quntimeout ()
is ignored.
.PP
Because
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
uses outdating pointers, if
.BR quntimeout ()
is called, it should be promptly.  Also, the callback function should remove
all global references to
.I toid
so that stale timeout call handles do not exist in the system.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
See
.BR untimeout (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR qtimeout (9),
.BR timeout (9),
.BR untimeout (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
is source-level compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.[
soldoc
.]
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
and
.IR LiS ,
do not provide this function.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
is a 
.IR Solaris \(rg
specific function that first appeared in
.IR Solaris "\(rg 2."
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
