'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: register_strnod.9.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/10/05 12:15:45 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/05 12:15:45 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: register_strnod.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/10/05 12:15:45  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:44:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH REGISTER_STRNOD 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B register_strnod
\- register a \fISTREAMS\fR minor device node
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR "STREAMS" ,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strconf.h>
.HP
.BI "int register_strnod(struct cdevsw *" cdev ", struct devnode *" cmin ", minor_t " minor);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I cdev
a pointer to the
.BR cdevsw (9)
.I STREAMS
character device switch table entry representing the
.I STREAMS
driver to which to register a minor device node.
.TP
.I cmin
a pointer to a caller completed
.BR devnode (9)
device node structure representing the minor device node to register.
.TP
.I minor
the minor device number under which to register the device node; when specified as minus one
.RB ( -1 ),
.I STREAMS
is to instead select the first available minor device number.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR register_strnod ()
registers the minor device node defined by
.IR cmin ,
to the
.I STREAMS
driver defined by
.IR cdev ,
under the minor device number specified by
.IR minor .
.PP
.I cdev
points to a
.BR cdevsw (9)
structure
representing the
.I STREAMS
device driver, and must have already been registered with
.BR register_strdev (9).
.PP
.I cmin
points to a
.BR devnode (9)
structure that must be allocated and completed by the caller.  The caller must complete the
following members of the structure:
.TP \w'\fIn_mode\fR\(em'u
.I n_name
the name of the minor device node.  Specifying this member is mandatory.
.TP
.I n_str
the
.BR streamtab (9)
structure for the minor device node.  This structure does not have to be the same as that provided
for the
.I STREAMS
device referenced by
.IR cdev .
Specifying this member is optional:
if the
.I n_str
field is
.BR NULL ,
however,
.I n_str
will be inhereted from the parent
.I cdev
structure.
.TP
.I n_mode
the device type and mode for the minor device node.
Specifying this member is optional: if zero (no device type) is specified, the device type and mode
will be inherited from the parent
.I cdev
structure.  If the parent does not define a device type,
.BR S_IFCHR
will be used as a device type and
.B S_IRUGO | S_IWUGO
will be used for the mode.
Usable device types are:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBS_IFCHR\fR\(em'u
.B S_IFCHR
for a regular Stream;
.PD 0
.TP
.B S_IFIFO
for a named pipe;
.TP
.B S_IFSOCK
for a socket.
.PD
.PP
See
.BR stat (2)
for usable modes and other device types.
.RE
.PP
All other members will be initialized and overwritten by
.BR register_strnod ().
.PP
.I minor
specifies the minor device number under which to register the device minor node.
Instead of a specific minor device number in
.IR minor ,
the caller can request that
.BR register_strnod ()
select the first available minor device number instead.  This is done by passing minus one
.RB ( -1 )
for
.IR minor .
.BR register_strnod ()
returns the minor device number selected (or
.I minor
if a minor device number is specified).
.PP
As only one inode in the
.BR specfs (5)
file system is allowed to represent a given minor device node, only one
.BR devnode (9)
structure,
.IR cmin ,
can be registered to a given minor device number,
.IR minor ,
for a given
.I STREAMS
driver,
.IR cdev ,
any attempt to register two
.BR devnode (9)
structures to the same inode will fail.
.PP
Because the
.BR specfs (5)
file system has a defined directory hierarchy, no two minor devices for the same
.I STREAMS
device can have the same name.  Any attempt to register two
.BR devnode (9)
structures to the same
.I cdev
with the same name will fail.
.PP
Aside from these restrictions,
.BR register_strnod ()
provides a mechanism whereby minor device nodes of almost arbitrary names can be assigned to a
.I STREAMS
device node.
.PP
Minor device nodes registered with
.BR register_strnod ()
in the initialization when a loadable kernel module loads, must be de-registered with
.BR unregister_strnod (9)
in the kernel module unloading sequence, invoked with the same values of
.I cdev
and
.IR minor ,
(or the returned minor device number, if
.I minor
was minus one).
.PP
When the
.BR specfs (5)
file system is mounted on
.BR /dev/streams ,
registering a minor device node with
.BR register_strnod ()
will cause a character device node with major device number
.I cdev->d_major
and minor device number
.I minor
to appear in the driver's directory: the device node name will be
.BI /dev/streams/ dddd / nnnn \fR,
where
.RI \(lq dddd \(rq
is the value of the
.I d_name
member of the
.BR cdevsw (9)
structure pointed to by
.IR cdev ;
and,
.RI \(lq nnnn \(rq
is the value of the
.I n_name
member of the
.BR devnode (9)
structure pointed to
.IR cmin .
The device node will have
.I d_major
as a major device number and
.I n_minor
as a minor device number, when the device type is
.BR S_IFCHR .
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR register_strnod ()
is used to register and create specialized device minor nodes for a
.I STREAMS
device or psuedo-device driver.
Minor device nodes registered with
.BR register_strnod ()
are accessible both from an external character device special file with the corresponding major and
minor device number, created with
.BR mknod (8),
as well as directly, by name, within the mounted
.BR specfs (5)
file system.
.PP
Whenever a
.I STREAMS
device or pseudo-device driver is registered with
.BR register_strdev (9),
it is also automatically registered as a minor device node of the
.BR clone (4)
driver (with a device node name the same as the driver name) with an internal call to
.BR register_strnod ().
.PP
The
.I STREAMS Administrative Driver
.BR sad (4)
has two special minor device nodes, one named
.RB \(lq admin \(rq,
with a minor device number of
.BR 0 ,
and another named
.RB \(lq user \(rq,
with a minor device number of
.BR 1 .
The
.BR sad (4)
driver, as shown under
.RI \(lq EXAMPLES \(rq,
below,
uses
.BR register_strnod ()
to register these two specialized minor device nodes with the
.I STREAMS
subsystem as well as creating device nodes in the mounted
.BR specfs (5)
file system.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR register_strnod ()
is successful, it returns the positive, non-zero, minor device number that was assigned to the minor
device node.
This number will be the same as
.I minor
when
.I minor
is not specified as minus one
.RB ( -1 ).
When unsuccessful,
.BR register_strnod ()
returns a negative error number.
.BR register_strnod ()
will not return zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR register_strnod ()
fails, it returns a negative error number as follows:
.TP \w'[\fBEINVAL\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I cdev
or
.I cdev->d_name
is
.BR NULL ;
or
.I cdev->d_name
is a zero-length string.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I cmin
or
.I cmin->n_name
is
.BR NULL ;
or
.I cmin->n_name
is a zero-length string.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I cdev
is not properly registered.
.TP
.RB [ EPERM ]
a minor device node of the same name already exists with a different minor device number.
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
a minor device node of the same name already exists with the same device number.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I minor
was specified as minus one
.RB ( -1 )
specifying that a free minor device number is to be selected by the call, and no minor device
numbers remain available.
.TP
.RB [ EPERM ]
a minor device node with the same device number but a different
.BR devnode (9)
structure already exists.
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
A minor device node with the same device number but a different
.BR devnode (9)
structure already exists.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
could not allocate an inode in the
.BR specfs (5)
file system to represent the device node.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR register_strnod ()
can be called at blockable process context.  It is intended to be called in the kernel module
initialization sequence or in a kernel initialization routine.
.BR register_strnod ()
may also be called from within a
.I STREAMS
driver or module
.IR qi_qopen (9)
or
.IR qi_qclose (9)
routine.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR register_strnod ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Loadable kernel modules that call
.BR register_strnod ()
when loading
must call
.BR unregister_strnod (9)
before unloading.
.BR unregister_strnod (9)
must be called with the same value of
.I cdev
and
.I minor
with which
.BR register_strnod ()
was called (or returned in the case of
.IR minor ).
.PP
Drivers registered with
.BR register_strnod ()
will also appear as a device node under
.BR /dev/streams ,
when the
.BR specfs (5)
filesystem has been mounted on
.BR /dev/streams .
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Example #1 - minor device node registration
.PP
Following is an example of registration and de-registration of minor device nodes for the
.IR "STREAMS Adminstrative Driver" ,
.BR sad (4),
abbreviated from the
.I src/drivers/sad.c
source file in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution directory:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  static struct cdevsw sad_cdev = {
 2      .d_name = "sad",
 3      .d_str = &sad_info,
 4      .d_flag = D_MP,
 5      .d_fop = NULL,
 6      .d_mode = S_IFCHR | S_IRUGO | S_IWUGO,
 7      .d_kmod = THIS_MODULE,
 8  };
 9  
.B "10  static struct devnode sad_node_admin = {
.B "11    n_name:"admin",
.B "12    n_flag:0,
.B "13    n_mode:S_IFCHR | S_IRUSR | S_IWUSR,
.B "14  };
15  
.B "16  static struct devnode sad_node_user = {
.B "17    n_name:"user",
.B "18    n_flag:0,
.B "19    n_mode:S_IFCHR | S_IRUGO | S_IWUGO,
.B "20  };
21  
22  int __init
23  sad_init(void)
24  {
25      int err;
26  
27      printk(KERN_INFO SAD_BANNER);
28      sad_minfo.mi_idnum = modid;
.B "29      if ((err = register_strdev(&sad_cdev, major)) < 0)
30          return (err);
31      if (major == 0 && err > 0)
32          major = err;
33      bzero(&sads, sizeof(sads));
.B "34      register_strnod(&sad_cdev, &sad_node_admin, 0);
.B "35      register_strnod(&sad_cdev, &sad_node_user, 1);
36      return (0);
37  };
38  
39  void __exit
40  sad_exit(void)
41  {
.B "42      unregister_strnod(&sad_cdev, 1);
.B "43      unregister_strnod(&sad_cdev, 0);
.B "44      unregister_strdev(&sad_cdev, major);
45  };
\s+2\fP
.FI
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cdevsw (9),
.BR devnode (9),
.BR register_strdev (9),
.BR streamtab (9),
.BR stat (2),
.BR specfs (5),
.BR unregister_strnod (9),
.BR mknod (8),
.BR clone (4),
.BR sad (4),
.BR qi_qopen (9),
.BR qi_qclose (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR register_strnod ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR register_strnod ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
implementation specific function.
Registration of
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules in inherently implementation specific and non-portable.
Different implementation provide different mechanisms.
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for mechanisms compatible with other implementations
and additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Registration and de-registration of \fISTREAMS\fR drivers is implementation
specific and not subject to standardization.
.BR register_strnod ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
implementation specific function.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR register_strnod ()
first appeared in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
