'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: RW_TRYWRLOCK.9.man,v 0.9.2.7 2005/05/14 08:34:17 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/14 08:34:17 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH RW_TRYWRLOCK 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B RW_TRYWRLOCK
\- attempt to acquire a read/write lock in write mode
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SVR4_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ksynch.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "pl_t RW_TRYWRLOCK(rwlock_t *" lockp ", pl_t " pl );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I lockp
A pointer to the read/write lock to attempt to acquire in write mode.
.TP
.I pl
A priority level to set if required before attempting to acquire the lock.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR RW_ALLOC (9),
.BR RW_DEALLOC (9),
.BR RW_RDLOCK (9),
.BR RW_WRLOCK (9),
.BR RW_TRYRDLOCK (9),
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
and
.BR RW_UNLOCK (9)
are a set of primitive functions for allocating, deallocating, read locking,
write locking, read lock attempt, write lock attempt and unlocking a
read/write lock of type
.BR rwlock_t .
.PP
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
sets the priority level specified by the
.I pl
argument using
.BR spl (9)
and then attempts to acquire the read/write lock specified by the
.I lockp
argument in write mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
If the lock cannot be acquired immediately,
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
restores the previous priority level and returns a value of
.BR invpl .
If the lock can be acquired immediately,
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
returns the prevailing priority level at the time that
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
was called.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
is always successful.  If
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
is passed invalid or uninitialized arguments, the results will by
indeterminate.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.PP
It is not necessary to raise the priority level using the
.I pl
argument if there is never an attempt to take a read or write lock on
.I lockp
from an interrupt service routine context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Read/write locks of type
.B rwlock_t
are not fully recursive.  Calling
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
for a read/write lock that has been locked for read or write by the calling
processor with
.BR RW_RDLOCK (9),
.BR RW_TRYRDLOCK (9),
.BR RW_WRLOCK (9)
or
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
will result in single part deadlock.
.PP
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
is a
.IR "SVR 4.2" -specific
function:
.B _SVR4_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR4
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR4_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
is implemented by calling
.BR spl (9)
with the
.I pl
argument and then testing the lock with
.BR write_trylock (9).
If
.I lockp
was unlocked, a write lock was taken
and the old interrupt priority level returned from
.BR spl (9)
is returned to the caller.
If
.I lockp
was locked,
.B invpl
is returned.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR RW_ALLOC (9),
.BR RW_DEALLOC (9),
.BR RW_RDLOCK (9),
.BR RW_TRYRDLOCK (9),
.\".BR RW_TRYWRLOCK (9),
.BR RW_UNLOCK (9),
.BR RW_WRLOCK (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
has a race due to a missing
.BR write_trylock ()
primitive in
.BR Linux .
It is possible that the function will spon on
.I lockp
rather than returning failure.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for the purpose of porting
.IR "SVR 4.2"
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR "SVR 4.2"
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.[
uslspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
