'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sleep.9.man,v 0.9.2.12 2008-04-28 16:47:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 16:47:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sleep.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.12  2008-04-28 16:47:05  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.11  2007/03/30 11:59:21  brian
.\" - heavy rework of MP syncrhonization
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2006/10/06 12:13:06  brian
.\" - updated manual pages to pass make check and for release
.\" - updated release files for release
.\" - added missing MacOT OSF/1 and MPS compatibility functions
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/10/05 12:15:46  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:43:35  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SLEEP 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sleep, mpsleep, streams_mpsleep
\- put a process to sleep
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SVR4_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/svr4ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "int sleep(caddr_t " event ", pl_t " priority ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fIpriority\fR\(em'u
.I event
The event (kernel address) on which to sleep.
.PD 0
.TP
.I priority
The priority at which to run when awoken.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR sleep ()
suspends execution of a process to await certain events such as reaching a
known system state in hardware or software.  For instance, when a process
wants to read a device a no data are available, the driver may need to call
.BR sleep ()
to wait for data to become available before returning.  This causes the kernel
to suspend execution of the currently running process and schedule another
process.  The process that called sleep can be resumed by a call to the
.BR wakeup (9)
function with the same
.I event
as specified in the call to
.BR sleep ().
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.I event
argument address has no significance except that the same address must be
passed to
.BR wakeup (9)
to resume the sleeping process.  The address used should be the address of a
kernel data structure associated with the caller, or one of the caller's own
data structures.  Use of an arbitrary address not associated with a private
data structure can result in a conflict with another, unrelated sleep and
wakeup operations in the kernel.
.PP
The
.I priority
argument can have valid values from zero
.RB ( 0 )
through thirty-nine
.RB ( 39 )
inclusive.  In general, a lower value will result in more favorable scheduling
although the exact semantic of the priority argument is specific to the
scheduling class of the caller, and some scheduling classes may choose to
ignore the argument altogether for the purpose of assigning a scheduling
priority.
.PP
Also, the value of the
.I priority 
argument determines whether the sleep may be interrupted by signals.  If the
value of
.I priority
is less than or equal to the value of the constant
.BR PZERO ,
the sleeping process will not be awakened by a signal.  If the value of
.I priority
is greater than
.B PZERO
and the
.B PCATCH
bit flag is ORed into the
.I priority
argument, the process will wake up prematurely (without a call to
.BR wakeup (9))
upon receipt of a non-ignored, non-held signal and will normally return
one
.RB ( 1 )
to the calling code.  If
.I priority
is greater than
.B PZERO
and
.B PCATCH
is not set, the sleeping process will exit upon receipt of a signal and will
never return to the caller.
.PP
Calls to
.BR sleep ()
must be able to tolerate premature wakeups.  After it is awakened, the code
must reexamine the condition on which it was sleeping.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR sleep ()
returns zero
.RB ( 0 )
if the caller woke due to a
.BR wakeup ()
or was stopped and restarted due to job control.  If the sleep is interrupted
by a signal and
.B PCATCH
was set in
.IR priority ,
the call returns one
.RB ( 1 ).
If the calling process catches a signal an
.B PCATCH
is not set, the call never returns.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR sleep ()
always succeeds.
.BR sleep ()
exits when the sleep is interrupted by a signal and
.B PCATCH
was set in the
.I priority
argument.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR sleep ()
can be called from any blocking context.  Private locks cannot be held across
the call.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR sleep ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR sleep ()
is a
.IR "SVR 4.2" -specific
function:
.B _SVR4_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR4
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR4_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
This
.IR "SVR 4"
.[
svr4
.]
version of
.BR sleep ()
has not yet been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR sleep ()
is not yet implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR sleep ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Symbol
.BR streams_mpsleep ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR HP-UX \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR HP-UX \(rg
drivers and modules to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
differ from that of
.IR HP-UX \(rg
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR sleep ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for the purpose of porting
.IR "SVR 4.2"
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
differ from that of
.IR "SVR 4.2"
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR sleep ()
and
.BR streams_mpsleep ()
only provide functionality comparable to
.IR "SVR 4.2"
and
.IR HP-UX \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR sleep ()
or
.BR streams_mpsleep ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR hpuxcompat (9),
.BR svr4compat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.[
uslspg
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR sleep ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr42
.]
.BR streams_mpsleep ()
appears in
.IR STREAMS/UX .
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
