'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: spl.9.man,v 0.9.2.10 2006/04/05 09:43:35 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:35 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: spl.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2006/04/05 09:43:35  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SPL 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B spl0, spl1, spl2, spl3, spl4, spl5, spl6, spl7, spl, splbase, spldisk, splhi, splstr, spltimeout, spltty, splx,
\- set or restore priority levels

.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #define _SVR4_SOURCE
.HP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.PD 0
.HP
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.PD
.HP
pl_t \fBspl\fR(const pl_t \fIlevel\fR);
.PD 0
.HP
pl_t \fBspl0\fR(void);
.HP
pl_t \fBspl1\fR(void);
.HP
pl_t \fBspl2\fR(void);
.HP
pl_t \fBspl3\fR(void);
.HP
pl_t \fBspl4\fR(void);
.HP
pl_t \fBspl5\fR(void);
.HP
pl_t \fBspl6\fR(void);
.HP
pl_t \fBspl7\fR(void);
.HP
pl_t \fBsplbase\fR(void);
.HP
pl_t \fBspldisk\fR(void);
.HP
pl_t \fBsplhi\fR(void);
.HP
pl_t \fBsplstr\fR(void);
.HP
pl_t \fBspltimeout\fR(void);
.HP
pl_t \fBspltty\fR(void);
.PD
.HP
void \fBsplx\fR(const pl_t \fIlevel\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I level
the priority level to set.  The priority level can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'pltimeout\(em'u
.B invpl
invalid priority level.
.PD 0
.TP
.B plbase
base priority level.
.TP
.B pltimeout
timeout priority level, suitable for use within timeout functions.
.TP
.B pltty
tty priority level, suitable for use by ttys and pseudo-ttys.
.TP
.B plstr
.I STREAMS
priority level, suitable for use within
.I STREAMS
procedures.
.TP
.B pldisk
disk priority level, suitable for use within disk drivers.
.TP
.B plhi
high priority level, suitable for all other high priority tasks.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
All of the
.BR spl ()
functions, except
.BR splx (),
return the priority level that was in effect before the
.BR spl ()
function was called.
.BR splx ()
restores a previous priority level and returns
.BR void .
.PP
.BR splbase (),
.BR spldisk (),
.BR splhi (),
.BR splstr (),
.BR spltimeout ()
and
.BR spltty ()
are equivalent to
.BI spl( plbase ),
.BI spl( pldisk ),
.BI spl( plhi ),
.BI spl( plstr )
and
.BI spl( pltimeout ).
.PP
.BR splbase (),
.BR spldisk (),
.BR splhi (),
.BR splstr (),
.BR spltimeout ()
and
.BR spltty ()
are also equivalent to
.BR spl0 (),
.BR spl6 (),
.BR spl7 (),
.BR spl5 (),
and
.BR spl4 ().
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The following code snippet illustrates the use of the
.BR spl ()
functions:
.sp
.nf
{
        pl_t save_pl = splstr();

        /* do some stuff */

        splx(save_pl);
}
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When the
.BR spl ()
function, other than
.BR splx (),
succeed, they sets the calling processor's priority level and returns
the priority level that was in effect prior to the call;
when they fails, they return
.BR invpl .
.PP
When the
.BR splx ()
function succeeds, it restores the specified priority level and returns
.BR void ;
when it fails, it fails silently.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR spl ()
functions fail when it is not possible to set the specified priority level.
.PP
.BR splx ()
fails when the specified
.I level
is invalid.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR spl ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR spl ()
functions are MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR spl ()
and family are
.IR "SVR 4.2" -specific
functions:
.B _SVR4_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose these symbols.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR4
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR4_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR spl ()
functions use a combination of eneable or disabling using local bottom half suppression and hard irq
suppression.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR spl ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR spl ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR spl ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for the purpose of porting
.IR "SVR 4.2"
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR "SVR 4.2"
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR spl ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR spl ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.[
uslspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR spl ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
