'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: str_install.9.man,v 0.9.2.5 2008-04-28 16:47:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 16:47:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: str_install.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2008-04-28 16:47:05  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/03/15 09:05:44  brian
.\" - some documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/05 12:15:46  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/04/05 09:43:35  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STR_INSTALL 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B str_install
\- install or uninstall a \fISTREAMS\fP driver or module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _AIX_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/streams.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strconf.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
int \fBstr_install\fR(int \fIcmd\fR, strconf_t *\fIconf\fR);
.PP
.B #define _HPUX_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/streams.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strconf.h>
.HP
int \fBstr_install\fR(streams_info_t *\fIinst\fR);
.HP
int \fBstr_uninstall\fR(streams_info_t *\fIinst\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I cmd
specifies the action to perform.
.TP
.I conf
a pointer to a
.BR strconf_t (9)
structure specifying the characteristics of the driver or module upon which to
perform the action.
.TP
.I inst
A pointer to module information
.B streams_info_t
structure
containing the
.I STREAMS
.BR streamtab (9)
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
There are two functions with different prototypes defined for
.BR str_install (),
each defined by
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
and
.IR HPUX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
with somewhat different behaviour and requirements.
.PP
When
.B _AIX_SOURCE
is defined before including header files, the
.IR AIX \(rg
version is used by definining symbol
.BR str_install ()
to
.BR str_install_AIX (9).
When
.B _HPUX_SOURCE
is defined before including header files, the
.IR HPUX \(rg
version is used by definining symbol
.BR str_install ()
to
.BR str_install_HPUX (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Both versions of
.BR str_install ()
return zero (0) upon success and a non-zero (positive) error code upon
failure.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When either version of
.BR str_install ()
fails, it returns a positive error code.  See
.BR str_install_AIX (9)
or
.BR str_install_HPUX (9)
for error codes pertaining to each version of the function.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR str_install ()
should be called from User (process) Context.
.BR str_install ()
is intended to be called by kernel module initialization routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR str_install ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR str_install ()
is an
.IR AIX \(rg-
or
.IR HPUX \(rg-specific
function:
.BR _AIX_SOURCE " or " _HPUX_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.BR CONFIGE_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX ", " CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_HPUX ", " CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX_MODULE " or " CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_HPUX_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR str_install_AIX (9),
.BR str_install_HPUX (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR str_install ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
For specific compatibility of each version of the function, see
.BR str_install_AIX (9)
or
.BR str_install_HPUX (9).
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg
DDI documentation,
.[
aixspg
.]
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR HPUX \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR str_install ()
appeared both in
.IR AIX \(rg
and
.IR HPUX \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
