'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: str_install_HPUX.9.man,v 0.9.2.4 2007/03/15 09:05:45 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/15 09:05:45 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: str_install_HPUX.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/03/15 09:05:45  brian
.\" - some documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/06 12:13:06  brian
.\" - updated manual pages to pass make check and for release
.\" - updated release files for release
.\" - added missing MacOT OSF/1 and MPS compatibility functions
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/04/05 09:43:35  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STR_INSTALL 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B str_install, str_uninstall
\- installs or uninstalls a \fISTREAMS\fR module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _HPUX_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/streams.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strconf.h>
.HP
int \fBstr_install\fR(streams_info_t *\fIinst\fR)
.HP
int \fBstr_uninstall\fR(streams_info_t *\fIinst\fR)
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I inst
A pointer to module information
.B streams_info_t
structure
containing the
.I STREAMS
.BR streamtab (9)
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR str_install ()
installs the
.I STREAMS
driver or module specified by the
.B stream_info_t
structure
.IR inst .
.PP
.BR str_uninstall ()
uninstalls the
.I STREAMS
driver or module specified by the
.B stream_info_t
structure
.IR inst .
.PP
The
.B streams_info_t
structure is formatted as follows:
.nf
\fC\s-1
typedef struct stream_inst {
    char *name;                         /* name of driver or module */
    int inst_major;                     /* major number for driver (-1 dynamic or module) */
    struct streamtab inst_str_tab;      /* current streams table entry */
    unsigned int inst_flags;            /* flags, e.g. STR_SVR4_OPEN, STR_IS_MODULE */
    int inst_sync_level;                /* sync level defined by stream.h */
    char inst_sysc_info[FMNAMESZ + 1];  /* elsewhere sync param described in MP */
} streams_info_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fBSQLVL_ELSEWHERE\fR\(em'u
.I name
The name of the driver or module.
.TP
.I inst_major
Specifies the major device number for a
.I STREAMS
device.  If this field is coded
.BR -1 ,
then a device major will be automatically assigned.
.TP
.I inst_str_tab
The current stream tab entry.
.TP
.I inst_flags
Install flags.
See
.RI \(lq FLAGS \(rq,
below.
.TP
.I inst_sync_level
The
.I STREAMS
synchronization level.
See
.RI \(lq "SYNCHRONIZATION LEVELS" \(rq,
below.
.TP
.I inst_sysc_info
The
.RI \(lq elsewhere \(rq
synchronization parameter described in MP.
.\"
.SS "Install Flags"
.PP
This can be a bitwise or of the following:
.TP \w'\fBSQLVL_ELSEWHERE\fR\(em'u
.B STR_IS_DEVICE
The
.I STREAMS
driver to install is a device.
.TP
.B STR_IS MODULE
The
.I STREAMS
module to install is a module.
.TP
.B STR_TYPE_MASK
Mask of
.B STR_IS_DEVICE
and
.BR STR_IS_MODULE .
.TP
.B STR_SYSV4_OPEN
V4 open signature and return.
.TP
.B STR_QSAFETY
Module needs safe callback functions.
.TP
.B STR_IS_SECURE
Module/device is secure.
.\"
.SS "Synchronization Levels"
.PP
The
.I STREAMS
synchronization level.
as follows:
.TP \w'\fBSQLVL_ELSEWHERE\fR\(em'u
.B SQLVL_DEFAULT
Default level of synchronization.
Specifies that the module uses the default synchronization scheme.  This is
the same as specifying
.BR SQLVL_MODULE .
.TP
.B SQLVL_GLOBAL
.I STREAMS
scheduler level synchronization.
Specifies that the module is run with global synchronization.  This means that
only one
.I STREAMS
executive thread will be permitted to entry any module.  This makes the entire
.I STREAMS
executive single threaded and is useful primarily for debugging.  This is the
same as
.RI \(lq "Uniprocessor Emulation" \(rq
on some systems, and reduces the
.I STREAMS
executive to running on a single processor at a time.
.TP
.B SQLVL_ELSEWHERE
Module group level synchronization.
Specifies that the module is run with synchronization within a group of
modules.  Only one thread of execution will be within n the group of modules
at a time.  The group is separately specified as a character string name.
This permits a group of modules to run single threaded as though they are
running on a single processor, without interfering with the concurrency of
other modules outside the group.  This can be important for testing and for
modules that implicitly share unprotected data structures.
.TP
.B SQLVL_MODULE
Module level synchronization. (Default)
Specifies that the module is run with synchronization at the module.  Only one
thread of execution will be permitted within the module.  Where the module
does not share data structures between modules, this has a similar effect to
running on a UP system.  This is the default and works best for non-MP-safe
modules written in accordance with
.I STREAMS
guidelines.
.TP
.B SQLVL_QUEUEPAIR
Queue pair level synchronization.
Specifies that the module is run with synchronization at the queue pair.  Only
one thread will be permitted to enter a given queue's procedures within a
given queue pair.  Where the read and write side of the queue pair share the
same private structure
.IR ( q->q_ptr ),
this provides MP protection of the common data structure to all synchronous
entry points without an external semaphore.
.TP
.B SQLVL_QUEUE
Queue level synchronization.
Specifies that the module is run with synchronization at the queue.  Only one
thread will be permitted to enter a given queue's procedures, however, another
thread will be permitted to enter the procedures of the other queue in the
queue pair.  This is useful when the read and write side of a module are
largely independent and do no require synchronization between sides of the
queue pair.
.TP
.B SQLVL_NOP
No synchronization.
Specifies that the module is run without synchronization.  All synchronous
module entry points, call-outs and callbacks become asynchronous.  It is the
module's responsibility to provide synchronization or serialization as
required.
.PP
For further details on synchronization, see
.BR mp-streams (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR str_install ()
succeeds, it returns zero (0);
when it fails, it returns
a non-zero (positive) error code.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR str_install ()
fails, it returns one of the following (positive) error codes:
.TP \w'[ENOMEM]\(em'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
An argument contains an invalid value.  The requested device type,
.IR inst_flags ,
did not contain one and only one of
.BR STR_IS_DEVICE " or " STR_IS_MODULE ,
or the character major device number,
.IR inst_major ,
is invalid,
or the name of the driver or module,
.IR name ,
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ EPERM ]
The requested character major device number,
.IR inst_major ,
already has a
.I STREAMS
device registered against it.
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
The requested character major device number,
.IR inst_major ,
already has a
.RI non- STREAMS
(legacy character)
device registered against it.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
The requested character major device number,
.IR inst_major ,
was minus one (-1) requesting dynamic allocation of a character major device number and no character
major device numbers are available for allocation.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
The necessary device structures could not be allocated due to memory shortage.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR str_install ()
should be called from User context.  It is intended to be called by kernel
module initialization routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR str_install ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR str_install ()
is a
.IR HP-UX \(rg-specific
function:
.B _HPUX_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_HPUX
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_HPUX_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR str_install ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR str_install ()
is compatible with
.IR HP-UX \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Synchronization flags and fields used by
.BR str_install ()
in the
.B streams_info_t
structure are compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.IP \(em
The flag
.B STR_SYSV4_OPEN
is always implied as
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
does not support SVR3 open and close prototypes.
.IP \(em
The flag
.B STR_IS_SECURE
is ignored as
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
does not support C3 or Orange Book security.
.IP \(em
The
.B STR_QSAFETY
flag is honoured, but possibly not in precisely the same fashion as HPUX.
.IP \(em
.BR str_install ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR HP-UX \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR HP-UX \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
differ from that of
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR str_install ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR HP-UX \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR str_install ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR HP-UX \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR str_install ()
first appeared in
.IR HP-UX \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
