'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: streams_open_comm.9.man,v 0.9.2.11 2008-04-28 16:47:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 16:47:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: streams_open_comm.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.11  2008-04-28 16:47:05  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2006/10/06 12:13:07  brian
.\" - updated manual pages to pass make check and for release
.\" - updated release files for release
.\" - added missing MacOT OSF/1 and MPS compatibility functions
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/10/05 12:15:46  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:43:35  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strcompat.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strcompat.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STREAMS_OPEN_COMM 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B streams_open_comm
\- \fISTREAMS\fR common minor device open utility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _OSF_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
int \fBstreams_open_comm\fR(unsigned int \fIsize\fR, queue_t *\fIq\fR, dev_t
*\fIdevp\fR, int \fIoflag\fR, int \fIsflag\fR, cred_t *\fIcrp\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I size
Size (in bytes) of the private data structure to allocate and attach to the
.I q->q_ptr
for each queue in the queue pair.
.TP
.I q
The read queue of the queue pair as directly obtained from the
.IR qi_qopen (9)
call.
.TP
.I devp
The pointer to the device number as directly obtained from the
.IR qi_qopen (9)
call.
.TP
.I oflag
The open flags as directly obtained from the
.IR qi_qopen (9)
call.
.TP
.I sflag
The streams flags as directly obtained from the
.IR qi_qopen (9)
call.
.TP
.I crp
The pointer to the credentials structure as directly obtained from the
.IR qi_qopen (9)
call.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR streams_open_comm ()
is a convenience or housekeeping function used within a driver or module's
.IR qi_qopen (9)
procedure to allocate a private data structure of size
.I size
and a minor device number when
.I sflag
is set to
.BR CLONEOPEN .
.PP
.BR streams_open_comm ()
differs from
.BR streams_open_ocomm (9)
in that
.BR streams_open_comm ()
is used for
.I "SVR 4"
.[
svr4
.]
style open functions.
.PP
When
.BR streams_open_comm ()
is called from the module's
.IR qi_qopen (9)
procedure, a corresponding call to
.BR streams_close_comm (9)
is required in the module's
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR streams_open_comm ()
succeeds, it returns zero (0);
when it fails, it returns a non-zero error code.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR streams_open_comm ()
fails it returns a positive error code as follows:
.TP \w'[ENOMEM]\(em'u
.RB [ EIO ]
.I sflag
is set to
.B MODOPEN
but there is no
.I WR(q)->q_next
pointer, or
.I sflag
is set to
.B CLONEOPEN
or
.B DRVOPEN
but there is a
.I WR(q)->q_next
pointer and the stream is not a FIFO.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
The private structure of size
.I size
could not be immediately allocated.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
The minor device number is in use and
.B CLONEOPEN
was not specified in
.IR sflag .
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
.I sflag
was
.B CLONEOPEN
or a clone minor was opened, however, no minor device numbers are available.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR streams_open_comm ()
can be called from any context, however, it is only normally called from the
module's
.IR qi_qopen (9)
procedure at user context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR streams_open_comm ()
is mp-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR streams_open_comm ()
is a
.IR OSF/1 \(rg-specific
function:
.B _OSF_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_OSF
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_OSF_MODULE
defined.
.PP
.BR streams_open_comm ()
is closely related to the
.IR AIX \(rg
.BR mi_open_comm (9)
convenience function.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following is an example of the use of the
.BR streams_open_comm ()
convenience function in a module's
.IR qi_qopen (9)
procedure:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1
int
xxx_open(queue_t *q, dev_t *devp, int oflag, int sflag, cred_t *crp)
{
    xxx_priv_t *p;
    int err;
    err = streams_open_comm(sizeof(*p), q, devp, oflag, sflag, crp);
    if (err != 0)
        return (err);
    p = q->q_ptr;
    /* initialize some more stuff in p */
    return (0);
}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR streams_open_ocomm (9),
.BR streams_close_comm (9),
.BR mi_open_comm (9),
.BR mi_next_ptr (9),
.BR mi_close_comm (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR streams_open_comm ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR streams_open_comm ()
is compatible with
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR streams_open_comm ()
is an
.IR OSF/1 \(rg-specific
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
.IP \(em
.BR streams_open_comm ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
differ from that of
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR streams_open_comm ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR streams_open_comm ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
osfdoc
.]
.[
osfspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR streams_open_comm ()
first appeared in
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
