'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: SV_ALLOC.9.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/08/22 06:17:44 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/08/22 06:17:44 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH SV_ALLOC 9 "$Date: 2004/08/22 06:17:44 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B SV_ALLOC, SV_DEALLOC
\- allocate and initialize or deallocate a synchronization variable
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SVR4_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/kmem.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ksynch.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
sv_t *\fBSV_ALLOC\fR(int \fIflag\fR);
.HP
void \fBSV_DEALLOC\fR(sv_t *\fIsvp\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.\"
.SS SV_ALLOC
.TP
.I flag
flag indicates whether the caller can sleep awaiting allocation or not.  It
can be one of the following flags (see
.BR kmem_alloc (9)):
.RS
.TP
.B KM_SLEEP
The caller can sleep awaiting allocation of the synchronization variable.
.TP
.B KM_NOSLEEP
The caller cannot sleep awaiting allocation of the synchronization variable.
.RE
.\"
.SS SV_DEALLOC
.TP
.I svp
A pointer to the synchronization varilable to deallocate.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR SV_ALLOC ()
allocates and initializes a syncrhonization variable.  A synchronization
variable is a kernel condition variable.  Allocation can sleep awaiting
availability of sufficient memory with the
.B KM_SLEEP
flag, or can fail and return
.B NULL
in the event of insufficient memory with the
.B KM_NOSLEEP
flag.
See
.BR kmem_alloc (9)
for more information on the
.I flag
argument.
.PP
.BR SV_DEALLOC ()
deallocates a synchronization variable previously allocated with
.BR SV_ALLOC ().
The synchronization variable referenced by the
.I svp
argument must not have any processes waiting on the variable at the time of
the call to
.BR SV_DEALLOC ().
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR SV_ALLOC ()
and
.BR SV_DEALLOC ()
are used in relation to
.I STREAMS
to allocate a synchronization variable to be used from within a user context,
or deallocate an allocated synchronization variable.  The synchronization
variable could be used within the kernle module's
.BR init_module (9)
or
.BR term_module (9)
routines, or within the
.BR qopen (9)
or
.BR qclose (9)
procedures.
.PP
An alternative to using a syncrhonization variable within the
.BR qopen (9)
and
.BR qclose (9)
procedures is to use the
.IR Solaris \(rg
.BR qwait (9)
or
.BR qwait_sig (9)
DDI functions.
.[
solspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR SV_ALLOC ()
succeeds, it returns a pointer to the allocated synchronization variable;
when it fails, it returns
.BR NULL .
.PP
.BR SV_DEALLOC ()
returns void.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR SV_ALLOC ()
fails when
.I flags
is set to
.BR KM_NOSLEEP
and suffient memory for the sycnrhonization variable cannot be allocated.
When
.BR SV_ALLOC ()
fails, it returns
.BR NULL .
.PP
.BR SV_DEALLOC ()
are always successful.  If incorrect arguments are supplied, the result will
be indeterminate.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR SV_ALLOC ()
can be called from any context with the
.BR KM_NOSLEEP
flag.  With the
.BR KM_SLEEP
flag, it many only be called from user context.
.PP
.BR SV_DEALLOC ()
can be called from any context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR SV_ALLOC ()
and
.BR SV_DEALLOC ()
are MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR SV_ALLOC ()
and
.BR SV_DEALLOC ()
are
.IR "SVR 4.2" -specific
functions:
.B _SVR4_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose these symbols.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR4
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR kmem_alloc (9),
.BR kmem_free (9),
.BR SV_WAIT (9),
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG (9),
.BR SV_SIGNAL (9),
.BR SV_BROADCAST (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR SV_ALLOC ()
and
.BR SV_DEALLOC ()
have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR SV_ALLOC ()
and
.BR SV_DEALLOC ()
are compatible with
.I SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
documents these functions as available for use with
.IR STREAMS .
.IP \(em
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
does not support these functions.
.IP \(em
.BR SV_ALLOC ()
and
.BR SV_DEALLOC ()
are provided for source level compatibility with
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for the purpose of porting
.IR "SVR 4.2"
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR "SVR 4.2"
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR SV_ALLOC ()
and
.BR SV_DEALLOC ()
only provide functionality comparable to
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR SV_ALLOC ()
or
.BR SV_DEALLOC ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI.
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
A version of
.BR SV_ALLOC ()
and
.BR SV_DEALLOC ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
