'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: SV_WAIT.9.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/04/13 04:30:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/04/13 04:30:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH SV_WAIT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B SV_WAIT, SV_WAIT_SIG
\- wait on a sychronization variable or signal
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SVR4_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ksynch.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
void \fBSV_WAIT\fR(sv_t *\fIsvp\fR, int \fIpriority\fR, lock_t *\fIlkp\fR);
.HP
int \fBSV_WAIT_SIG\fR(sv_t *\fIsvp\fR, int \fIpriority\fR, lock_t *\fIlkp\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I svp
A pointer to the synchronization variable upon which to wait.
.TP
.I priority
A hint to scheduler concerning the priority with which the caller will run
after waking.  The priority values are:
.RS
.TP \w'\ pridisk\ 'u
.B pridisk
A priority for a disk driver.
.PD 0
.TP
.B prinet
A priority for a network driver.
.TP
.B pritty
A priority for a terminal driver (including
.IR STREAMS ).
.TP
.B pritape
A priority for a tape driver.
.TP
.B prihi
A high priority.
.TP
.B primed
A medium priority.
.TP
.B prilo
A lo priority.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I lkp
A locked basic lock that will be released before blocking.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR SV_WAIT ()
and
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
wait on the synchronization variable referenced by the
.I svp
argument.
The calling process will sleep inside
.BR SV_WAIT ()
or
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
until signalled by
.BR SV_BROADCAST (9)
or
.BR SV_SIGNAL (9)
for the synchronization variable referenced by
.I svp
by another thread of execution.
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
will also wake when the calling process receives a signal.
.PP
A priority may be specified with the
.I priority
argument that is a hint to the scheduler at which priority level the process
will run after exiting from the
.BR SV_WAIT ()
or
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
call.  This priority level is not set by
.BR SV_WAIT (),
or
.BR SV_WAIT_SG (),
but is merely a hint to the scheduler as to what priority to assign to the
task relative to other processes.
.PP
The basic lock indicated by the
.I lkp
argument must be held by the caller when calling
.BR SV_WAIT ()
or
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ().
This lock will be released internally and interrupt priority set to
.B plbase
after the process is placed on the wait queue, but before the context
switching to another process.  Upon return from
.BR SV_WAIT ()
or
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG (),
the lock is not held and the interrupt priority is set to
.BR plbase .
This procedure ensures that signals and wake-ups on the synchronization variable
are not lost.
.PP
The process will not be interrupted by signals while sleeping inside
.BR SV_WAIT ().
The process will be interrupted by signals while sleeping inside
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ().
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Within the scope of
.IR STREAMS ,
.BR SV_WAIT ()
or
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
is typically used within a
.BR qopen (9)
procedure to wait on some condition before continuing
.I STREAMS
module initialization actions.  One typical usage is to call
.BR qprocson (9)
to enable
.BR put (9)
and
.BR srv (9)
procedures, send a message downstream and await a response.  Either the
.BR put (9)
or
.BR srv (9)
procedure would include a call to
.BR SV_SIGNAL (9)
to wait the process to continue the
.BR qopen (9)
procedure.
See
.RI \(lq EXAMPLES \(rq,
below.
.PP
An alternative to using
.BR SV_WAIT ()
or
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
are the
.IR Solaris \(rg
DDI
.[
solspg
.]
.BR qwait (9)
or
.BR qwait_sig (9)
functions.
.PP
The primary difference between
.BR SV_WAIT ()
and
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
is that
.BR SV_WAIT ()
cannot be interrupted by signals and
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
can.
If it cannot be guaranteed that the condition will ever occur and there
remains a possibility that the process will sleep forever, then
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
is a better choice than
.BR SV_WAIT ().
When
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
is interrupted by a signal in the
.I STREAMS
module
.BR qopen (9)
procedure, the caller should exit the procedure with the error
.RB [ EINTR ].
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR SV_WAIT ()
returns void.
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
returns false (zero) if the call was not interrupted by a signal and
true (one) if the call was interrupted by a signal.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR SV_WAIT ()
and
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
are always successful.  If incorrect arguments are supplied, the result will
be indeterminate.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR SV_WAIT ()
or
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
can be called from user context.  For
.I STREAMS
this means from withing a kernel module
.BR init_module (9)
or
.BR term_module (9)
routine, or from within a
.I STREAMS
.BR qopen (9)
or
.BR qclose (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR SV_WAIT ()
and
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
are MP-safe.  However, is the caller's responsibility to ensure that the
appropriate basic lock is supplied to the call.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Calls to
.BR SV_WAIT ()
and
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
should be written so as to be able to tolerate false wake-ups.  The condition
that initiated the sleep on the synchronization variable should be rechecked
on exit to ensure that the condition has been cleared.
.PP
.BR SV_WAIT ()
and
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
are
.IR "SVR 4.2" -specific
functions:
.B _SVR4_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose these symbols.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR4
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR4_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following is an example
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR SV_BROADCAST (9),
.BR SV_SIGNAL (9),
.BR qopen (9),
.BR qprocson (9),
.BR put (9),
.BR srv (9),
.BR qwait (9),
.BR init_module (9),
.BR term_module (9),
.BR qclose (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR SV_WAIT ()
and
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR SV_WAIT ()
and
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
are compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
documents its implementation of
.BR SV_WAIT ()
and
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
somewhat differently than that of
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
See
.IR HP-UX \(rg
documentation
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
for more information.
.IP \(em
.I LiS
does not provide these functions.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
provides the related functions
.BR qwait (9)
and
.BR qwait_sig (9).
.IP \(em
Under
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
the
.I priority
argument, which is a scheduler hint, is ignored.
.B Linux
does not schedule in the same manner as
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" .
.IP \(em
Under
.B Linux
a interrupt priority of
.B plbase
corresponds to interrupts enabled.
.IP \(em
.BR SV_WAIT ()
and
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
are provided for source level compatibility with
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for the purpose of porting
.IR "SVR 4.2"
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR "SVR 4.2"
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR SV_WAIT ()
and
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR SV_WAIT ()
and
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2"
DDI documentation.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.[
uslspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR SV_WAIT ()
and
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2"
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
