@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo nocin nosi
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: descrip.texi,v 0.9.2.7 2006/12/31 11:20:19 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/12/31 11:20:19 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides @dfn{STREAMS} modules and
drivers, libraries, programs, init scripts, and daemons that implement the
classical @cite{SVR 4} Terminal Subsystem.

The package builds and installs the following @dfn{STREAMS} kernel modules and
drivers:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_pty.ko} driver @dfn{/dev/ptmx} @dfn{/dev/pts/0}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_ptem.ko} module @dfn{ptem}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_pckt.ko} module @dfn{pckt}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_ldterm.ko} module @dfn{ldterm}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_ttcompat.ko} module @dfn{ttcompat}
@end multitable

@table @manref
@item pty(4)
The @manpage{pty(4)} driver is a Pseudo-Terminal Driver that provides the
classical @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} master and slave pseudo-terminals.

This driver is complete but untested.

@item ptem(4)
The @manpage{ptem(4)} module is a Pseudo-Terminal Emulation Module that
provide hardware terminal emulation for the slave side of a Pseudo-Terminal
provided by the @manpage{pty(4)} driver.  This module is pushed over the slave
side of a pseudo-terminal before pusing @manpage{ldterm(4)}.

This module is complete but untested.

@item pckt(4)
The @manpage{pckt(4)} module is a Packet Module.  This is the classical
@cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} packetization module that is pushed over the
master side of a pseudo-terminal to allow the master to view the detailed
state of the pseudo-terminal.

This module is complete but untested.

@item ldterm(4)
The @manpage{ldterm(4)} module is a Line Discipline Terminal Module.  This is
the classical @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} line discipline module for
terminals.  This module is pushed last on the slave side of a psuedo-terminal,
after @manpage{ptem(4)} and provides the @cite{POSIX} terminal interface to
the user.

This module is incomplete.

@item ttcompat(4)
The @manpage{ttcompat(4)} module is a TTY Compatibility Module.  This is a
module that provides @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{} Version 7} and @cite{4BSD}
compatible terminal interfaces.  These interfaces are no longer in use and
this module has only marginal value.

This module is complete but untested.

@end table

The package builds and installs the following shared object libraries:

@table @manref
@item libtty(3)
The @manpage{libtty(3)} library provides replacements for @cite{POSIX}
terminal handling functions that are not properly implemented in @file{glibc}.
These functions are:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .70
@item @manref{openpt(3tty)} @tab -- open a master pseudo-terminal
@item @manref{ptsname(3tty)} @tab -- obtain name for slave device
@item @manref{grantpt(3tty)} @tab -- grant access to the slave device
@item @manref{unlockpt(3tty)} @tab -- unlock the pseudo-terminal
@end multitable

This library is incomplete.

@end table

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package includes kernel modules, @cite{SVR
4.2} @dfn{STREAMS} drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs,
daemons, and development environment for the development and execution of
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} components and applications for the @cite{SVR
4.2} @dfn{STREAMS} environment.

This distribution is only currently applicable to @cite{Linux} 2.4 and 2.6
kernels and was targeted at @samp{ix86}, @samp{x86_64}, @samp{ppc} and
@samp{ppc64} architectures, but should build and install for other
architectures as well.

This package is currently incomplete.  It is being released as a reference
point for the community.  If you are interested in completion of this package,
contact @email{info@@openss7.com}.

