@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id$
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
@c
@c =========================================================================

The quickest and easiest way to ensure that all prerequisites are met is to download and install
this package from within the @cite{OpenSS7 Master Package},
@command{openss7-@value{VERSION_OPENSS7}}, instead of separately.

Prerequisites for the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package are as follows:

@ignore
@itemize @bullet
@item A fairly LSB compliant GNU/Linux distribution.
@footnote{@xref{GNU/Linux Distributions}, for more information.}
@item Linux 2.4 or 2.6 kernel (2.4.10 - 2.4.27) or (2.6.3 - 2.6.17)
@item glibc2 or better.
@item GNU info (for info files).
@item GNU groff (for man pages).
@footnote{If you are using a Debian release, please make sure to install the groff extension package
(@samp{groff_ext}), as it contains the @command{refer} or @command{grefer} commands necessary for
including references in the manual pages.}
@item OpenSS7 Linux Fast-STREAMS
(@href{http://@-www.@-openss7.@-org/@-tarballs/@-streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}.@-tar.@-bz2, streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}} or better)
@footnote{Although this an other OpenSS7 STREAMS packages will build and install with Linux STREAMS
(LiS), @b{Linux STREAMS (LiS) is deprecated and cannot be supported because it is full of bugs!}}
@item OpenSS7 STREAMS Compatibility Modules
(@href{http://@-www.@-openss7.@-org/@-tarballs/@-strcompat-0.9.2.4.@-tar.@-bz2, strcompat-0.9.2.4} or better)
@end itemize
@end ignore

@enumerate
@item @cite{Linux} distribution, somewhat @cite{Linux Standards Base} compliant, with a 2.4 or 2.6
kernel and the appropriate tool chain for compiling out-of-tree kenrel modules.  Most recent
@cite{Linux} distributions are okay out of the box, but some development packages must be installed.
For more information, see @xref{Compatibility}, in the manual.

@item @cite{OpenSS7 Linux Fast-STREAMS} or @cite{OpenSS7 Modified Linux
STREAMS} installed, such as @*
@url{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}.tar.bz2} or @*
@url{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/LiS-@value{VERSION_LIS}}.

(Note that the @file{LiS} package is deprecated and unsupported.  We recommend using the lastest
 version of the @file{streams} package instead.)

@item
Most @dfn{STREAMS} packages require that the @cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS Compatibility Modules} package be
installed, such as @* @url{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}.tar.bz2}.

@item
Most @dfn{STREAMS} packages require that the @cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS Utilities} package be installed,
such as @* @url{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strutil-@value{VERSION_STRUTIL}.tar.bz2}.

@ignore
@item
Some @dfn{STREAMS} packages require that the @cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS XNS} package be installed, such
as @* @url{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}.tar.bz2}.

@item
Some @dfn{STREAMS} packages require that the @cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS XTI/TLI} package be installed,
     such as @* @url{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}.tar.bz2}.

@item
Some @dfn{STREAMS} packages require that the @cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS INET} package be installed, such
as @* @url{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}.tar.bz2}.

@item
Some @dfn{STREAMS} packages require that the @cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS SCTP} package be installed, such
as @* @url{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}.tar.bz2}.
@end ignore
@end enumerate

