@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=78 nocin nosi
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: todo.texi,v 0.9.2.5 2006/12/31 11:35:06 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/12/31 11:35:06 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

Things to do:

@itemize @minus
@item
Testing.  This package is completely untested.

This remains to be done.

@item
Create a library @manref{libtty(3)} to hold the library functions for use with
this package:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .45 .50
@item @tab @manref{openpt(3)}
@item @tab @manref{grantpt(3)}
@item @tab @manref{ptsname(3)}
@item @tab @manref{unlockpt(3)}
@end multitable

This remains to be done.

@item
Create an @manref{ldterm(4)} @cite{Line Discipline for Terminals}
@dfn{STREAMS} module.  This item remains to be done.  Al that is in place
right now is a skeleton module.

@item
Create a @manref{ttcompat(4)} @cite{TTY Compatibility} @dfn{STREAMS} module.

@emph{*done*}

Created a @manref{ttcompat(4)} module.  This module compiles and installs and
is fully documented, but is completely untested.

@item
Create a @manref{pckt(4)} @cite{Packet Mode} @dfn{STREAMS} module.

@emph{*done*}

Created a @manref{pckt(4)} module.  This module compiles and installs and is
fully documented, but is completely untested.

@item
Create a @manref{ptem(4)} @cite{Pseudo-Terminal Emulation} @dfn{STREAMS}
module.

@emph{*done*}

Created a @manref{ptem(4)} module.  This module compiles and installs and is
fully documented,  but is completely untested.

@item
Create a @manref{pty(4)} @cite{Pseudo-Terminal} @dfn{STREAMS} driver.  This
driver will provide both slave (@manref{pts(4)}) and master (@manref{ptm(4)})
@dfn{STREAMS} devices.

@emph{*done*}

Created @manref{ptm(4)} and @manref{pts(4)} driver.  This driver compiles and
installs and is fully documented, but is completely untested.

@item
Move already written code from the @file{stacks} or @file{strss7} directories
into the @file{src} directory.

@emph{*done*}

@item
Create a skeleton directory and manual and place @command{@value{PACKAGE}} as
a subpackage in the @cite{OpenSS7 Master Package}.

@emph{*done*}

You are reading it.
@end itemize

The @command{@value{PACKAGE}} package is currently incomplete.

The purpose of the package was to provide @dfn{STREAMS} terminal capabilities
for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  These drivers and modules cannot possibly work
with @cite{LiS}: @cite{LiS} does not provide TTY semantics at the Stream head
and is incapable of providing a controlling terminal, and does not do POSIX
job control.  The package will only build and install with @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}

If someone is interested in this package, a contribution of a working
@manref{ldterm(4)} module would be good.  Also, testing could be performed.
