'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_getinfo.3.man,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-29 07:10:17 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:17 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: t_getinfo.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-04-29 07:10:17  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:42:59  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_GETINFO 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "XTI/TLI Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B t_getinfo
\- get protocol information
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_getinfo(int " fd ", struct t_info *" info );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport endpoint for which to get information.
.TP
.I info
a pointer to a
.B t_info
structure to contain the returned information.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_getinfo ()
retrieves information about the transport service provided by the underlying
transport provider associated with
.IR fd .
.PP
.I fd
is the transport endpoing about which to obtain protocol information.
.PP
.I info
is a pointer to a
.B t_info
structure that will contain the protocol information on successful return.
The
.B t_info
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_info {
    t_scalar_t addr;
    t_scalar_t options;
    t_scalar_t tsdu;
    t_scalar_t etsdu;
    t_scalar_t connect;
    t_scalar_t discon;
    t_scalar_t servtype;
    t_scalar_t flags;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
The
.B t_info
structure contains the following members and protocol information:
.TP
.I addr
the maximum size of a transport endpoint address.  This can be used to
determine the
.I addr->maxlen
size when passing
.BR netbuf (3)
structures to XTI/TLI Library calls.
.TP
.I options
the maximum size of the options parameter.  This can be used to determine the
.I opt->maxlen
size when passing
.BR netbuf (3)
structures to XTI/TLI Library calls.
.TP
.I tsdu
the maximum size of the transport service data unit.  This can be used to
determine the
.I udata->maxlen
size when passing
.BR netbuf (3)
structures to XTI/TLI Library calls.
.TP
.I etsdu
the maximum size of the expedited transport service data unit.  This can be used to
determine the
.I udata->maxlen
size when passing
.BR netbuf (3)
structures to XTI/TLI Library calls.
.TP
.I connect
the maximum size of connection data.  This can be used to determine the
.I udata->maxlen
size when passing
.BR netbuf (3)
structures to
.BR t_connect "(3) or " t_accept (3).
.TP
.I discon
the maximum size of disconnection data.  This can be used to determine the
.I udata->maxlen
size when passing
.BR netbuf (3)
structures to
.BR t_snddis "(3) or " t_rcvdis (3),
or, when
.B T_ORDRELDATA
is set in
.IR flags ,
.BR t_sndreldata "(3) or" t_rcvreldata (3).
.RS 12
.PP
Any of the size parameters returned can also be one of the following values:
.TP
.B T_INFINITE
the size of the parameter is unlimited.
.TP
.B T_INVALID
the transport service provider has no concept of the parameter in question.
.RE
.TP
.I servtype
the service type of the underlying transport service provider.  The service
type can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B T_CLTS
connectionless transport service.
.TP
.B T_COTS
connection oriented transport service.
.TP
.B T_COTS_ORD
connection oriented transport service with orderly release.
.RE
.TP
.I flags
contains other option information about the transport service provider and may
be a bitwise OR of any of the following flags:
.RS
.TP
.B T_ORDRELDATA
when set, this flag indicates that the transport service provider will accept
data with orderly release.
.TP
.B T_SNDZERO
when set, this flag indicates that the transport service provider will accept
the transmission of zero-length data.
.TP
.B XPG4_1
when set, this flag indicates that the transport service provider supports the
XPG4 primitives
.BR T_ADDR_REQ " and " T_ADDR_ACK .
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR t_getinfo ()
is valid in all states except
.BR T_UNINIT .
.PP
The values of tranport protocol parameters returned by
.BR t_getinfo ()
can change as a result of negotiation during connection establishment and can
change when
.I fd
enters the
.B T_DATAXFER
state.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_getinfo ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR t_getinfo ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_getinfo ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A \fBLinux\fR system error occured and the \fBLinux\fR error number is set in \fIerrno\fR(3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR netbuf (3),
.BR t_connect (3),
.BR t_accept (3),
.BR t_snddis (3),
.BR t_rcvdis (3),
.BR t_sndreldata (3),
.BR t_rcvreldata (3),
.IR t_errno (3),
.IR errno (3)
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR t_getinfo ()
has no known bugs.
.BR t_getinfo ()
has been tested for the described behavior using the
.I /usr/bin/test-xnet
conformance test program.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
