'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_sndreldata.3.man,v 0.9.2.5 2005/05/14 08:32:23 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/14 08:32:23 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_SNDRELDATA 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "XTI/TLI Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B t_sndreldata
\- send orderly release with data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_sndreldata(int " fd ", struct t_discon *" discon );
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport endpoint to release in an orderly fashion with data.
.TP
.I discon
a pointer to a
.B t_discon
structure containing release data.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_sndreldata ()
requests that the transport connection associated with local transport
endpoint
.I fd
be orderly released with user data.
.PP
.I fd
specifies the local transport endpoint from which to send the orderly release
with user data.
.PP
.I discon
is a pointer to a
.B t_discon
structure that describes the user data and reason for release.
The
.B t_discon
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_discon {
        struct netbuf udata;            /* user data */
        int reason;                     /* reason code */
        int sequence;                   /* sequence number */
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
The
.B t_discon
structure specifies the following members and information:
.TP
.I udata
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure that specifies the user data to include in the orderly release.
The
.I discon->udata.len
is significant on call.
If
.I discon->udata.len
is zero, no user data will be included in the orderly release.
.TP
.I reason
release reason values are transport service provider specific.
.TP
.I sequence
not used by
.BR t_sndreldata ()
and is left unchanged by the call.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR t_sndreldata ()
is only valid in states
.BR T_DATAXFER " and " T_INREL .
In state
.BR T_DATAXFER ,
.BR t_sndreldata ()
initiates an orderly release with user data.
In state
.BR T_INREL ,
.BR t_sndreldata ()
completes an orderly release with user data.
.PP
.BR t_sndreldata ()
is only valid for transport service providers of service type
.B T_COTS_ORD
and where the
.B T_ORDRELDATA
flag is returned in the provider flags field of the
.B t_info
structure returned by
.BR t_open (3)
or
.BR t_getinfo (3).
.PP
In syncronous mode,
.BR t_sndreldata ()
blocks until there is sufficient room to buffer the message for transmission
considering flow control.  In asynchronous mode where there is insufficient
room to buffer the orderly release request with user data considering flow
control,
.BR t_sndreldata ()
fails, returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TFLOW ].
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_sndreldata ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR t_sndreldata ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_sndreldata ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADDATA ]
The amount of data specified for the call and underlying transport service
provider was invalid (i.e. was outside the protocol limits).
This happens when the
.I discon
field of the
.B t_info
structure returned by
.BR t_open (3)
or
.BR t_getinfo (3)
is
.BR T_INVALID ,
or is less than the amount of
.I udata
provided.
See
.BR t_getinfo (3)
and
.BR t_open (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TFLOW ]
The call would block due to flow control and
.I fd
is set for asynchronous operation
.BR "" ( O_NONBLOCK " or " O_NDELAY
was set using
.BR t_open (3)
or
.BR fcntl (2)).
.TP
.RB [ TLOOK ]
An asynchronous event occured before the call could complete.  See
.BR t_look (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
The call requires the use of a TLI primitive not supported by the underlying transport provider.
This can occur when the transport service provider service type is
.BR T_CLTS " or " T_COTS .
.TP
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The call was issued with the interface in a state other than
.BR T_DATAXFER " or " T_INREL .
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A
.B Linux
system error occured and the
.B Linux
error number is set in
.IR errno (3).
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR errno (3),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR netbuf (3),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_getinfo (3),
.BR t_look (3),
.BR t_open (3).
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
