'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_sndvudata.3.man,v 0.9.2.5 2005/05/14 08:32:23 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/14 08:32:23 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_SNDVUDATA 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "XTI/TLI Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B t_sndvudata
\- gather and send unitdata
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_sndvudata(int " fd ", struct t_unitdata *" data ", struct t_iovec *" iov ", unsigned int " iovcnt );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport endpoint upon which to send scatter-gather unit data.
.TP
.I data
a pointer to a
.B t_unitdata
structure containing information abou the unit data to send.
.TP
.I iov
is a pointer to an array of
.B t_iovec
structures that specify the scatter-gather buffer from which to gather the
data.
.TP
.I iovcnt
is the number of
.B t_iovec
structures in the array pointed to by
.IR iov .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_sndcudata ()
sends connectionless unitdata with options gathering the data from a vector of
scatter-gather buffers.
.PP
.I fd
specifies the local transport endpoint from which to send the unitdata.
.PP
.I data
is a pointer to a
.B t_unitdata
structure that describes the destination address, data and optoins to be sent.
.PP
.I iov
is a pointer to an array of
.B t_iovec
structures that specify the scatter-gather buffers from which to gather the
data.
.PP
.I iovcnt
is the number of
.B t_iovec
structures in the array pointed to by
.IR iov .
.PP
The
.B t_unitdata
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_unitdata {
        struct netbuf addr;             /* address */
        struct netbuf opt;              /* options */
        struct netbuf udata;            /* user data */
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
The
.B t_unitdata
structure specifies the following members and information:
.TP
.I addr
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure specifying the destination address for the unitdata message.
The
.I data->addr.len
is significant on call.
If
.I data->addr.len
is zero on call, no destination address is specified for the unitdata message.
.TP
.I opt
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure specifying the options associated with the unitdata message.
.I data->opt.len
is significant on call.
If
.I data->opt.len
is zero on call, no options are associated with the unitdata message.
.TP
.I udata
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure specifying the user data to send.
.I data->udata.len
is significant on call.
If
.I data->udata.len
is zero on call, there is no user data associated with the unitdata message.
.PP
The
.B t_iovec
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_iovec {
        void *iov_base;
        size_t iov_len;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
The
.B t_iovec
structure specifies the following members:
.TP
.I iov_base
The base of the scatter-gather buffer.
.TP
.I iov_len
The length of the scatter-gather buffer pointed to by
.IR iov_base .
.PP
When data is sent, each buffer in the array of scatter-gather buffers,
.IR iov ,
are used in order until they are exhausted and then data is sent from the next
sequential buffer in the array.
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR t_sndudata ()
is only valid in state
.BR T_IDLE .
.PP
.BR t_sndudata ()
is only valid for transport service providers of service type
.BR T_CLTS .
.PP
In synchronous mode,
.BR t_sndudata ()
blocks until there is sufficient room to buffer the outgoing message
considering flow control.  In
asynchronous mode where the is insufficient room to buffer the outgoing
message considering flow control,
.BR t_sndudata ()
fails, returns -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TFLOW ].
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_sndvudata ()
returns zero (0) or a positive integer reflecting the number of bytes sent.
Upon failure,
.BR t_sndvudata ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_sndvudata ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADADDR ]
The address specified was of an invalid format or contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ TBADDATA ]
The amount of data specified for the call and underlying transport service
provider was invalid (i.e. was outside the protocol limits).  See
.BR t_getinfo (3)
and
.BR t_open (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TBADOPT ]
The options specified were of an invalid format or contained invalid information.
See
.BR t_optmgmt (3)
for more information on option formats.
.TP
.RB [ TFLOW ]
The call would block due to flow control.
.TP
.RB [ TLOOK ]
An asynchronous event occured before the call could complete.  See
.BR t_look (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
The call requires the use of a TLI primitive not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The call was issued with the interface in an incorrect state.
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A \fBLinux\fR system error occured and the \fBLinux\fR error number is set in
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR netbuf (3),
.IR t_errno (3),
.BR t_getinfo (3),
.BR t_open (3),
.BR t_optmgmt (3),
.BR t_look (3),
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR t_sndvudata ()
has no known bugs.
.BR t_sndvudata ()
has been tested for the described behavior using the
.I /usr/bin/test-xnet
conformance test program.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
