'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: xti_tcap.3.man,v 0.9.2.11 2008-04-29 07:10:17 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:17 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: xti_tcap.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.11  2008-04-29 07:10:17  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2008-04-25 08:58:50  brian
.\" - updated references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/04/05 09:43:00  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH XTI-TCAP 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "XTI/TLI Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B xti_tcap
\- X/Open Transport Interface \- Corregendum for Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_ss7.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_mtp.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_sccp.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_tcap.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_mosi.h>
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " tcap_xistr " = t_open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This section describes the protocol-sepcific information that is relevant for TCAP
.[
q771
.]
.[
tcapv2
.]
.[
t1.114
.]
transport providers; it describes the protoocl-specific information that is relevant when TCAP
services
.[
q771
.]
are provided over an IP network using TUA
.[
tua-02
.]
.RB ( tua (4))
or TALI
.[
TALI
.]
.RB ( tali (4));
and it defines the data structure and constants required for TCAP transport provider that are
exposed through the XTI/TLI
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.[
xns99
.]
.B <xti_tcap.h>
header file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B XTI-TCAP
is an
.I X/Open Transport Interface
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.[
xns99
.]
based interface with specific support of the Signalling System Number 7,
Transaction Capabilities Application Part
protocol.
.[
q771
.]
.[
tcapv2
.]
.[
t1.114
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH "ADDRESS FORMATS"
.PP
The TCAP address format is a
.B t_sccp_addr_t
structure as defined in
.BR xti_sccp (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Options are formatted according to the
.B t_opthdr
structure as described in
.BR xti (3).
A TCAP transport provider compliant to this specification supports none, all
or any subset of the options defined here.  An implementation may restrict the
use of any of these options by offerming them only in the priviledged or
read-only mode.  TUA transport providers only support a subset of the options
defined here.
.\"
.\"
.PP
A TCAP conforming transport provider supports four levels of options.  These
four level are described below.
.\"
.\"
.SS T_SS7_SS7
.PP
Options within this level are specific to Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) and
are common to all the protocol levels in SS7.  For more information see
.BR xti_ss7 (3).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SS7_PVAR
.TP
.B T_SS7_MPLEV
.TP
.B T_SS7_DEBUG
.TP
.B T_SS7_CLUSTER
.\"
.\"
.SS T_SS7_MTP
.PP
Options within this level are specific to the Message Transfer Part (MTP), yet
are used by SS7 protocol levels representing MTP Users.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_MTP_SLS
.TP
.B T_MTP_MP
.\"
.\"
.SS T_SS7_SCCP
.PP
Options within this level are specific to the Signalling Connection Control
Part (SCCP), yet are used by SS7 protocol levels representing MTP Users.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SEQ_CTRL
.TP
.B T_SCCP_PRIORITY
.TP
.B T_SCCP_PCLASS
.TP
.B T_SCCP_IMPORTANCE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RET_ERROR
.\"
.\"
.SS T_SS7_TCAP
.PP
Options within this level are specific to the Transaction Capabilities
Application Part, yeat are used by SS7 protocol levels representing MTP Users.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_TCAP_OPCLASS
.TP
.B T_TCAP_APPCTX
.\"
.\"
.SH FUNCTIONS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_accept\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_bind\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_close\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_connect\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_getinfo\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_listen\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_open\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_optmgmt\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvconnect\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvdis\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcv\fR(3), \fBt_rcvv\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvreldata\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvudata\fR(3), \fBt_rcvvudata\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvuderr\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_snddis\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_snd\fR(3), \fBt_sndv\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_sndreldata\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_sndrel\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_sndudata\fR(3), \fBt_sndvudata\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_unbind\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
This manual page is incomplete.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
There are number of TCAP devices providing the Transport Provider Interface
that provide TCAP conforming TPI devices as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/tcap-tpi-cl ", " /dev/tcap-tpi-co
For more information on the SS7 TCAP device, see
.BR tcap (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/tua-tpi-cl ", " /dev/tua-tpi-co
For more information on the SIGTRAN TUA device, see
.BR tua (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_ss7 (3),
.BR xti_mtp (3),
.BR xti_sccp (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B XTI-TCAP
driver is specific to the
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This is an unofficial Corrigendum to
.IR "XNS 5.2 Revision 2" .
.[
xns99
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The XTI-TCAP interface first appears in the
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
