'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: xti_ss7.3.man,v 0.9.2.11 2008-04-29 07:10:17 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:17 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: xti_ss7.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.11  2008-04-29 07:10:17  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2008-04-25 08:58:50  brian
.\" - updated references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/12/23 13:07:02  brian
.\" - manual page and other package updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:43:00  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH XTI-SS7 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "XTI/TLI Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B xti_ss7
\- X/Open Transport Interface \- Corrigendum for Signalling System No. 7 (SS7)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_ss7.h>
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " ss7_xistr " = t_open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This manual section describes the protocol-specific information that is relevant for SS7
.[
q700
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
transport providers; it describes the protocol-specific information that is relevant when SS7
services
.[
q700
.]
are provided over an IP network using SIGTRAN
.[
rfc2719
.]
.RB ( SIGTRAN (4))
or TALI
.[
TALI
.]
.RB ( tali (4))
and it defines the data structures and constants required for SS7 transport providers that are
exposed through the XTI/TLI
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.[
xns99
.]
.B <xti_ss7.h>
header file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B XTI-SS7
is an
.I X/Open Transport Interface
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.[
xns99
.]
based interface with specific support of the Signalling System Number 7 protocol.
.[
q700
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH "ADDRESS FORMAT"
.PP
The SS7 address format depends upon the specific protocol level being addressed.  See
.BR xti_mtp (3)
and
.BR xti_sccp (3)
for more information on address formats.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Options are formatted according to the
.B t_opthdr
structure as described in
.BR xti (3).
An SS7 transport provider compliant to this specification supports none, all
or any subset of the options defined here.  An implementation may restrict the
use of any of these options by offering them only in the privileged or
read-only mode.  M3UA
.RB ( m3ua (4))
and TALI
.RB ( tali (4))
transport providers only support a subset of
the options defined here.
.\"
.\"
.PP
An SS7 conforming transport provider supports several leves of options, but supports at least the
lowest option level as described below.
.\"
.SS T_SS7_SS7
.PP
Options within this level are specific to Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) and
are common to all the protocol levels in SS7.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The options defined with the option level
.B T_SS7_SS7
are as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SS7_PVAR
This option is a
.B t_uscalar_t
that specifies or indicates the protocol variant supported by the provider.
This option can be used with
.BR t_optmgmt (3).
It is normally not possible to set or negotiate this value using the XTI/TLI
stream.  This value is normally read-only to the XTI/TLI user stream and is set
using management configuration IO controls on the specific driver.
.RS
.PP
Protocol variant can be one of the following values:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
li 1 l.
T_SS7_PVAR_ITUT88:\(em ITU-T 1988 Recommendations
T_SS7_PVAR_ITUT93:\(em ITU-T 1993 Recommendations
T_SS7_PVAR_ITUT96:\(em ITU-T 1996 Recommendations
T_SS7_PVAR_ITUT00:\(em ITU-T 2000 Recommendations
T_SS7_PVAR_ETSI88:\(em ETSI 1988 Specifications
T_SS7_PVAR_ETSI93:\(em ETSI 1993 Specifications
T_SS7_PVAR_ETSI96:\(em ETSI 1996 Specifications
T_SS7_PVAR_ETSI00:\(em ETSI 2000 Specifications
T_SS7_PVAR_ANSI88:\(em ANSI 1988 Standards
T_SS7_PVAR_ANSI92:\(em ANSI 1992 Standards
T_SS7_PVAR_ANSI96:\(em ANSI 1996 Standards
T_SS7_PVAR_ANSI00:\(em ANSI 2000 Standards
T_SS7_PVAR_JTTC94:\(em JTTC 1994 Specifications
.TE
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SS7_MPLEV
This option is a
.B t_scalar_t
that has value
.BR T_YES " or " T_NO ,
that indicates whether the SS7 protocol provider supports multiple levels of
message priority and congestion.  When this option has setting
.BR T_YES ,
it indicates that the SS7 protocol provider supports multiple levels of
message priority; when
.BR T_NO ,
that it does not.
This value is normally read-only to the XTI/TLI user.
.TP
.B T_SS7_DEBUG
This option indicates the debug settings.
The option value is a
.B t_uscalar_t
representing the debug level and flags.  The valid values are implementation
specific.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SS7_PCR
This option is a
.B t_scalar_t
that has value
.BR T_YES " or " T_NO ,
that indicates whether the SS7 protocol provider supports Preventative Cyclic
Retransmission on signalling links.  When this option has setting
.BR T_YES ,
it indicates that the SS7 protocol provider supports Preventative Cyclic
Retransmission; when
.BR T_NO ,
that it does not.
This value is normally read-only to the XTI/TLI user.
.TP
.B T_SS7_HSL
This options is a
.B t_scalar_t
that has value
.BR T_YES " or " T_NO ,
that indicates whether the SS7 protocol provider supports High Speed Links.
When this option has setting
.BR T_YES ,
it idnicates that the SS7 protocol provider supports High Speed Links; when
.BR T_NO ,
that it does not.
.TP
.B T_SS7_XSN
This option indicates whether the SS7 transport provider supports Extended
Sequence Numbers.
The option value is a
.B t_uscalar_t
that can have the value
.BR T_YES " or " T_NO .
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SS7_CLUSTER
This option indicates whether the SS7 transport provider supports Cluster
Routing.
The option value is a
.B t_uscalar_t
that can have the value
.BR T_YES " or " T_NO .
.\"
.\"
.SH FUNCTIONS
.PP
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_accept\fR(3)
.PP
Most
.B SS7
transport providers do not support connection indications.  The
.BR t_accept (3)
XTI/TLI call will fail in this case, return -1, and set
.IR errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_bind\fR(3)
.PP
For SS7 conforming transport providers, the
.I req->addr
field contains an SS7-SAP as described under
.IR "\*(lqADDRESS FORMAT\*(rq" ,
for the appropriate SS7 protocol level.
If any address field are \*(lqwildcarded\*(rq, the SS7 conforming
transport provider may assign a value to the \*(lqwildcarded\*(rq fields.  If
the SS7 conforming transport provider completes a \*(lqwildcarded\*(rq field,
it must return the resulting bound address in the
.I ret->addr
parameter.
.\"
.\"
.PP
SS7 supports a connectionless, connection oriented and pseudo-connection oriented modes.  To bind a
connectionless stream,
.I req->qlen
should be set to zero (0).
To bind a pseudo-connection oriented stream,
.I req->qlen
should be set to a non-zero positive integer.
Because SS7 pseudo-connection oriented modes do not support connection indications,
on return from
.BR t_bind (3),
SS7 conforming transport providers will return a
.I ret->qlen
of zero (0) regardless of the setting of
.IR ret->qlen .
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_close\fR(3)
.PP
This function operates as described in
.BR t_close (3)
without change.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_connect\fR(3)
.PP
For pseudo-connection oriented service providers, this XTI/TLI call associates the
local SS7 endpoint with a remote SS7 endpoint to form a signalling relation.
No protocol messages are exchanged and the association is a local relationship
only.
For connectionless service providers, this XTI/TLI call will fail (unless they also support the
pseudo-connection oriented mode), return -1, and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_getinfo\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I addr
For compatibility with the
.BR sockets (3)
library, SS7 uses a
.B sockaddr
structured address.  This size will always be the size of a
.B sockaddr
structure.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I options
The maximum size of options is provider specific.  The
.B OpenSS7
SS7 implementations
return the maximum size of an options structure containing all
SS7 options.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I tsdu
The maximum size of a transport service data unit.  For SS7 this is the
maximum size of the payload of the specific user part.  This varies depending on the
protocol variant and options supported.  Also, for a specific SS7 provider,
this value may be different depending on the limitations of underlying SS7
links.  The maximum value that will be reported here for SS7 is guaranteed to
be less than 3094.  For a typical SS provider using narrow-band SS7 links,
this value will be as small as 272.  For
.BR SIGTRAN (4)
or
.BR tali (4),
this value could be
.BR T_INFINITE .
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I etsdu
SS7 does not support the concept of expedited data directly.  Some protocol levels, such as
.BR sccp (4)
do.  When unsupported, the SS7 transport provider will always return
.BR T_INVALID .
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I connect
SS7 does not support the concept of connection data at all protocol levels.  When in
pseudo-connection oriented mode, the value of
.I connect
will be either zero,
.BR T_INVALID ,
or the same as the value of
.IR tsdu .
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I discon
SS7 does not support the concept of disconnection data at all protocol levels.  When in
pseudo-connection oriented mode, the value of
.I discon
will be either zero,
.BR T_INVALID ,
or the same as the value of
.IR tsdu .
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I servtype
SS7 supports true connectionless mode, pseudo-connection oriented mode and true connection oriented
with variying support at varying protocol levels.
SS7 conforming transport providers may return
.BR T_CLTS " or " T_COTS .
SS7 conforming transport providers at some protocol levels may return
.BR T_COTS_ORD .
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I flags
SS7 does provide for orderly release with disconnection data (using
.BR tcap (4)).
SS7 confroming trasnprot providers may return
.BR T_ORDRELDATA " or " T_SNDZERO
flags.
SS7 conforming providers will return
.BR XPG4_1 .
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_listen\fR(3)
.PP
.B SS7
supports connection indications in both the pseudo-connection oriented and true connection oriented
modes.  The
.BR t_listen (3)
XTI/TLI call, when unsupported, will fail, return -1, and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ],
.RB [ TBADQLEN ],
.RB [ TLOOK ],
.RB [ TNODATA ],
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ],
.RB [ TQFULL ]
or
.RB [ TSYSERR ].
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_open\fR(3)
.PP
SS7 conformoing transprot providers will return in the
.B t_info
structure the same information as returned to the
.BR t_getinfo (3)
library call as described above.
Otherwise this function operates as described in
.BR t_open (3).
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_optmgmt\fR(3)
.PP
SS7 conforming trasnport providers support the options described under
.IR \*(lqOPTIONS\*(rq ,
above.
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_rcvconnect\fR(3)
.PP
.B SS7
does not support connection indications at all protocol levels.  The
.BR t_rcvconnect (3)
XTI/TLI call will fail when unsupported, return -1, and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_rcvdis\fR(3)
.PP
.B SS7
does not support disconnect indications at all protocol levels.  The
.BR t_rcvdis (3)
XTI/TLI call will fail when supported, return -1, and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_rcv\fR(3), \fB\)t_rcvv\fR(3)
.PP
For pseudo-connection oriented or true connection oriented service providers, these XTI/TLI calls
receive data from the remote SS7 peer on a connected stream.
For connectionless service providers, these XTI/TLI calls will fail, return -1 and
set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_rcvreldata\fR(3)
.PP
.B SS7
does not support release indications in all modes at all protocol levels.  The
.BR t_rcvreldata (3)
XTI/TLI call will fail when unsupported, return -1, and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_rcvrel\fR(3)
.PP
.B SS7
does not support release indications in all modes at all protocol levels.  The
.BR t_rcvrel (3)
XTI/TLI call will fail when unsupported, return -1, and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_rcvudata\fR(3), \fB\)t_rcvvudata\fR(3)
.PP
For connectionless or pseudo-connectionless service providers, this XTI/TLI call sends a unit data to the
MTP peer with the specified options, described under
.I \*(lqOPTIONS\*(rq
above.
For connection oriented and pseudo-connection oriented service providers, these XTI/TLI calls will fail,
return -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_rcvuderr\fR(3)
.PP
.B SS7
will return the options specified under
.I \*(lqOPTIONS\*(rq ,
above.
.\"
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_snddis\fR(3)
.PP
For connection oriented and pseudo-connection oriented service providers, this XTI/TLI library call releases
the signalling relation associated with the requesting stream.  For
connectionless service providers, this XTI/TLI library call fails, returns -1, and
sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_snd\fR(3), \fB\)t_sndv\fR(3)
.PP
For connected connection oriented or pseudo-connection oriented service privders, these XTI/TLI library calls are
used to send data, with or without gather, to the peer on the signalling
relation.
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_sndreldata\fR(3)
.PP
.B SS7
does not support orderly release with data at all protocol levels.  The
.BR t_sndreldata (3)
XTI/TLI call will fail when unsupported, return -1, and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_sndrel\fR(3)
.PP
.B SS7
does not support orderly release at all protocol levels.  The
.BR t_sndrel (3)
XTI/TLI call will fail when unuspported, return -1, and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_sndudata\fR(3), \fB\)t_sndvudata\fR(3)
.PP
For connectionless or pseudo-connectionless service providers, this XTI/TLI call sends a unit data to the
SS7 peer with the specified options, described under
.I \*(lqOPTIONS\*(rq
above.
For connection and pseudo-connection oriented services providers, these XTI/TLI calls will fail,
return -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.SS \fB\)t_unbind\fR(3)
.PP
This function operates as described in
.BR t_unbind (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
Some SS7 protocol levels do not support a true connection-oriented service and only provide a
true connectionless or pseudo-connection-oriented service.  Some SS7 protocol levels might not
support a connectionless service and only provide a connection oriented or pseudo-connectionless
service emulated using on-demand connections.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
There are a number of SS7 devices providing the Transport Provider Interface
that provide SS7 conforming TPI devices as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.IR /dev/mtp-tpi-cl ", " /dev/mtp-tpi-co
These devices provide true connectionless and pseudo-connection oriented MTP
transport providers.
For more information on the SS7 MTP device, see
.BR mtp (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.IR /dev/tali-mtp-tpi-cl ", " /dev/tali-mtp-tpi-co
These devices provide true connectionless and pseudo-connection oriented MTP
transport providers.
For more information on the TALI MTP, see
.BR tali (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.IR /dev/m3ua-tpi-cl ", " /dev/m3ua-tpi-co
These devices provide true connectionless and pseudo-connection oriented MTP
transport providers.
For more information on the SIGTRAN M3UA device, see
.BR m3ua (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR m3ua (4),
.BR mtp (4),
.BR tali (4),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_optmgmt (3),
.BR t_rcvudata (3),
.BR t_rcvvudata (3),
.BR t_sndudata (3),
.BR t_sndvudata (3),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B XTI-SS7
driver is specific to the
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This is an unofficial Corrigendum to
.IR "XNS 5.2 Revision 2" .
.[
xns99
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The XTI-SS7 interface first appears in the
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
