'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: xti_sccp.3.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:57:37 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:37 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR [\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH XTI-SCCP 3 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:37 $" "$Name:  $" "X/Open Transport Interface"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B XTI-SCCP
\- X/Open Transport Interface \- Corrigendum for Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_ss7.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_mtp.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_sccp.h>
.HP
.BI "int " sccp_xtistr " = t_open(" \fR/dev/sccp-tpi-cl\fR ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " sccp_xtistr " = t_open(" \fR/dev/sccp-tpi-co\fR ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
This manual section describes the protocol-specific information that is
relevant for SCCP
.[
q714
.]
.[
sccpv4
.]
.[
t1.112
.]
.[
jtq714
.]
transport providers.  This section also describes the
protocol-specific information that is relevant when SCCP services
.[
q711
.]
are provided
over an IP network using SUA
.[
sua15
.]
.RB ( sua (4))
or TALI
.[
TALI
.]
.RB ( tali (4)).
.PP
This section also defines the data structures and constants required for SCCP
transport providers that are exposed through the XTI/TLI
.[
xti
.]
.[
xns
.]
.B <xti_sccp.h>
header file.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ADDRESS FORMAT"
.PP
The SCCP address format is structured as follows:
.\"
.\"
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct sockaddr_sccp {
    sa_family_t sccp_family;	/* Address family */
    uint16_t sccp_ni;		/* Network indicator */
    uint16_t sccp_ri;		/* Routing indicator */
    uint32_t sccp_pc;		/* Point code */
    uint8_t sccp_ssn;		/* Subsystem number (0 not present) */
    uint8_t sccp_gtt;		/* Global title translation type */
    uint8_t sccp_tt;		/* Translation type */
    uint8_t sccp_es;		/* Encoding scheme */
    uint8_t sccp_nplan;		/* Numbering plan */
    uint8_t sccp_nai;		/* Nature of address indicator */
    uint8_t sccp_alen;		/* Address length */
    uint8_t sccp_addr[SCCP_MAX_SADDR_LENGTH];	/* address digits */
    uint8_t sccp_zero[sizeof(struct sockaddr) -
		      sizeof(sa_family_t) -
		      sizeof(uint16_t) * 2 -
		      sizeof(uint32_t) -
		      sizeof(uint8_t) *
		      (7 + SCCP_MAX_SADDR_LENGTH)];
} t_sccp_addr_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.PP
The SCCP address format is a
.B t_sccp_addr_t
structure containing the following members:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_family
This field is for compatability with
.BR sockets (3)
library and is not used by XTI/TLI and is ignored by the SCCP provider.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_ni
conveys the Network Indicator.  The Network Indicator is an implementation
specific indication of the numbering space in which the
.I sccp_pc
is relevant.  Network Indicators are assigned by the system administrator.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_ri
conveys the Routing Indicator.  The Routing Indicator determines which
elements of the SCCP address will be used for routing and can be one of the
following values:
.\"
.\"
.RS
.TP 24
\fISCCP_RI_DPC_SSN\fR
route on DPC/SSN.
.TP
\fISCCP_RI_GT\fR
route on Global Title.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_pc
conveys the SCCP Signalling Point Code.  The format of the signalling point
code is network dependent.  Signalling Point Codes are least significant bit
aligned in a 32-bit long word.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_ssn
conveys the SCCP Subsystem Number.  The format of the subsystem number is one
octet.  Subsystem Numbers fill a complete 8-bit byte.
.\"
.\"
.RS
.TP 24
\fISCCP_SSN_UNKNOWN\fR
unknown or unspecified.
.TP
\fISCCP_SSN_SCMG\fR
SCCP Management.
.TP
\fISCCP_SSN_RESERVED\fR
reserved.
.TP
\fISCCP_SSN_ISUP\fR
ISUP end-to-end signalling.
.TP
\fISCCP_SSN_OMAP\fR
Operations, Maintenance and Adminstration Part.
.TP
\fISCCP_SSN_MAP\fR
Mobile Application Part.
.TP
\fISCCP_SSN_HLR\fR
Home Location Register.
.TP
\fISCCP_SSN_VLR\fR
Visitor Location Register.
.TP
\fISCCP_SSN_MSC\fR
Mobile Switching Center.
.TP
\fISCCP_SSN_EIC\fR
Equipment Identity Center.
.TP
\fISCCP_SSN_AUC\fR
Authentication Center.
.TP
\fISCCP_SSN_ISDN_SS\fR
ISUP supplementary services.
.TP
\fISCCP_SSN_RESERVED2\fR
reserved.
.TP
\fISCCP_SSN_BISDN\fR
Broadband ISDN.
.TP
\fISCCP_SSN_TC_TEST\fR
TC test.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_gtt
conveys the Global Title type.
.\"
.\"
.RS
.TP 24
\fISCCP_GTTTYPE_NONE\fR
no GT.
.TP
\fISCCP_GTTTYPE_NAI\fR
NAI only.
.TP
\fISCCP_GTTTYPE_TT\fR
TT only.
.TP
\fISCCP_GTTTYPE_NP\fR
TT, ES and NPLAN.
.TP
\fISCCP_GTTTYPE_NP_NAI\fR
TT, ES, NPLAN and NAI.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_tt
conveys the Translation type.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_es
conveys the Encoding Scheme.
.\"
.\"
.RS
.TP 24
\fISCCP_ES_UNKNOWN\fR
unknown.
.TP
\fISCCP_ES_BCD_ODD\fR
BCD, odd number of digits.
.TP
\fISCCP_ES_BCD_EVEN\fR
BCD, even number of digits.
.TP
\fISCCP_ES_NATIONAL\fR
National specific.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_nplan
conveys the Numbering Plan.
.\"
.\"
.RS
.TP 24
\fISCCP_NPLAN_UNKNOWN\fR
unknown or unspecified.
.TP
\fISCCP_NPLAN_ISDN\fR
E.164 ISDN.
.TP
\fISCCP_NPLAN_GENERIC\fR
generic.
.TP
\fISCCP_NPLAN_DATA\fR
X.121.
.TP
\fISCCP_NPLAN_TELEX\fR
telex.
.TP
\fISCCP_NPLAN_MARITIME\fR
maritime.
.TP
\fISCCP_NPLAN_LAND_MOBILE\fR
PLMN.
.TP
\fISCCP_NPLAN_ISDN_MOBILE\fR
ISDN PLMN.
.TP
\fISCCP_NPLAN_PRIVATE\fR
private.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_nai
conveys the Nature of Address Indicator.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_alen
conveys the address length.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_addr
conveys the address.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_zero
This field is for compatability with the
.BR sockets (3)
library and is not used by XTI/TLI and is ignored by the SCCP provider.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The combination of
.IR sccp_ni ", " sccp_pc " and " sccp_ssn ", or "
.IR sccp_ni ,
.IR sccp_gtt ,
.IR sccp_tt ,
.IR sccp_es ,
.IR sccp_nplan ,
.IR sccp_nai ,
.IR sccp_alen " and "
.IR sccp_addr ,
define the SCCP Service Access Point (SCCP-SAP).
.\"
.\"
.PP
The network indicator can be
\(lqwildcarded\(rq
by setting
.I sccp_ni
to -1.  The signalling point code can be
\(lqwildcarded\(rq
by setting
.I sccp_pc
to -1.
The subsystem can be
\(lqwildcarded\(rq
by setting
.I sccp_ssn
to 0, or -1.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
Options are formatted according to the
.B t_opthdr
structure as described in
.BR xti (3).
An SCCP transport provider compliant to this specification supports none, all
or any subset of the options defined here.  An implementation may restrict the
use of any of these options by offering them only in the privileged or
read-only mode.  M3UA and TALI transport providers only support a subset of
the options defined here.
.\"
.\"
.PP
An SCCP conforming transport provider supports three levels of options.  These
three levels are described below.
.SS T_SS7_SS7
.PP
Options within this level are specific to Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) and
are common to the all protocol levels in SS7.  For more information see
.BR xti_ss7 (3).
.\"
.\"
.PP
The options defined with the option level
.B T_SS7_SS7
are as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SS7_PVAR
the protocol variant provided by the SCCP provider.  This option has a
.B t_uscalar_t
option value.  The option value can be one of the following values:
.\"
.\"
.RS
.TP 24
\fIT_INVALID\fR
not known because not bound to a specific network indicator.
.TP
\fIT_SS7_PVAR_ITUT88\fR
ITU-T Recommendation Q.714, 1988
.TP
\fIT_SS7_PVAR_ITUT93\fR
ITU-T Recommendation Q.714, 1993
.TP
\fIT_SS7_PVAR_ITUT96\fR
ITU-T Recommendation Q.714, 1996
.TP
\fIT_SS7_PVAR_ITUT00\fR
ITU-T Recommendation Q.714, 2000
.TP
\fIT_SS7_PVAR_ETSI88\fR
ETSI ETS 300 009 1988.
.TP
\fIT_SS7_PVAR_ETSI93\fR
ETSI ETS 300 009 1993.
.TP
\fIT_SS7_PVAR_ETSI96\fR
ETSI EN 300 009-1, 1996.
.TP
\fIT_SS7_PVAR_ETSI00\fR
ETSI EN 300 009-1, 2000.
.TP
\fIT_SS7_PVAR_ANSI88\fR
ANSI T1.112/1988.
.TP
\fIT_SS7_PVAR_ANSI92\fR
ANSI T1.112/1992.
.TP
\fIT_SS7_PVAR_ANSI96\fR
ANSI T1.112/1996.
.TP
\fIT_SS7_PVAR_ANSI00\fR
ANSI T1.112/2000.
.TP
\fIT_SS7_PVAR_JTTC92\fR
JTTC JQ.714 1992.
.TP
\fIT_SS7_PVAR_JTTC97\fR
JTTC JQ.714 1997.
.TP
\fIT_SS7_PVAR_JTTC00\fR
JTTC JQ.714 2000.
.TP
\fIT_SS7_PVAR_NICC00\fR
NICC ND1005:2000/08.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SS7_DEBUG
.\"
.\"
.SS T_SS7_MTP
.PP
Options within this level are specific to the Message Transfer Part (MTP) yet
are used by SS7 protocol levels representing MTP Users.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The options defined with the option level
.B T_SS7_MTP
are as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_MTP_MPLEV
.TP
.B T_MTP_CLUSTER
.TP
.B T_MTP_SLS
.TP
.B T_MTP_MP
.\"
.\"
.SS T_SS7_SCCP
.PP
Options within this level are specific to the Signalling Connection Control
Part (SCCP) yet are used by SS7 protocol levels representing SCCP Users.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The options defined with the option level
.B T_SS7_SCCP
are as follows:
.TP
.B T_SCCP_PCLASS
the protocol class of the SCCP provider. This is a
.B t_uscalar_t
that can take on the following values:
.RS
.TP 24
\fIT_SCCP_PCLASS_0\fR
.RB ( T_CLTS )
protocol class 0
(no assurance of sequence).
.TP
\fIT_SCCP_PCLASS_1\fR
.RB ( T_CLTS )
protocol class 1
(assurance of sequence).
.TP
\fIT_SCCP_PCLASS_2\fR
.RB ( T_COTS )
protocol class 2
(connection without flow control, or expedited data).
.TP
\fIT_SCCP_PCLASS_3\fR
.RB ( T_COTS )
protocol class 3
(connection with flow control, and expedited data).
.TP
\fIT_SCCP_PCLASS_ALL\fR
a bit mask representing all of the above values.
.TE
.RE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_IMPORTANCE
the importance (or restricted importance level) associated with a message or a
subsystem.
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RET_ERROR
return on error option.   Messages with this option set will be returned if
they encounter an error.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_accept\fR(3)
.PP
.PP
.B SCCP
only supports the
.BR t_accept ()
function for connection oriented stream (of service type
.BR T_COTS )
at
.B SCCP 
protocol classses 2 or 3.  Otherwise the
.B t_accept ()
call is an error and the
.IR errno (3)
will be set to
.RB [ EOPNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_bind\fR(3)
.PP
.PP
For SCCP conforming transport providers, the
.I req->addr
field contains the SCCP-SAP address as described above under
.IR \(lqADDRESS FORMAT\(rq.  If the
.IR sccp_ni ,
.IR sccp_pc ,
or
.I sccp_ssn
components of the address are \(lqwildcarded\(rq, the SCCP conforming
transport provider may assign a value to the \(lqwildcarded\(rq fields.  If
the SCCP conforming transport provider completes a \(lqwildcarded\(rq field,
it must return the resulting bound address in the
.I ret->addr
parameter.
.PP
SCCP supports connectionless and connection-oriented modes.  To bind a
connectionless stream,
.I req->qlen
should be set to zero (0).  To bind a connection-oriented stream,
.I req->qlen
should be set to a non-zero positive integer.  Because SCCP supports
connection-oriented mode, on return from
.BR t_bind (3),
SCCP conforming transport providers will return a
.I ret->qlen
of non-zero if
.I req->qlen
was non-zero, but must return a
.I ret->qlen
of zero (0), if
.I req->qlen
was zero (0).
.\"
.\"
.SS t_close\fR(3)
.PP
.PP
This function operates as described in
.BR t_close (3)
without change.
.\"
.\"
.SS t_connect\fR(3)
.PP
.PP
For connection-oriented service providers, this XTI/TLI
.[
XTI
.]
.[
XNS
.]
call associates the local SCCP endpoint wtih a remote SCCP endpoint to form a
network connection.  For connectionless service providers, this XTI/TLI call will
fail, return -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOSUPPORT ].
.PP
For connection-oriented service providers supporting SCCP protocol classes 2
and 3, the
.I sndcall->addr
parameter contains the address to which to from the SCCP network connection.
This address can be of any of the forms permitted by
.IR \(lqADDRESS\ FORMATS\(rq ,
above.
.I sndcall->opt
contains the options associated with the network connection.  The
.I T_SCCP_PCLASS
option can be used to select protocol class
.BR T_SCCP_PLCASS_2 " or " T_SCCP_PCLASS_3 .
If the
.I T_SCCP_PCLASS
option is not specified, a
.I T_SCCP_PCLASS_2
network connection will be formed.
.I sndcall->udata
can be used to transfer a limitied amount of user data with the SCCP
connection request.
.PP
If the connection is formed, the SCCP conforming transport provider will
always return the
.IR rcvcall->addr ", " rcvcall->opt " and " rcvcall->udata
structures as appropriate.
.I rcvcall->addr
contains the responding address,
.I rcvcall->opt
contains the responding options and
.I rcvcall->udata
contains any data that was included by the SCCP peer in the connection
response.
.\"
.\"
.SS t_getinfo\fR(3)
.PP
.PP
.TP
.I addr
For compatibility with the
.BR sockets (3)
library, the SCCP uses a
.B sockaddr
structured address.  This size will always be the size of a
.B sockaddr
structure.
.TP
.I options
The maximum size of options is provider specific.  The
.B OpenSS7
SCCP implementation
.RB ( sccp (4))
returns the maximum size of an options structure containing all SCCP options.
.TP
.I tsdu
The maximum size of a transport service data unit.  For SCCP this is the
maximum size of the data payload that will fit in a single SCCP [XL]UDT
.RB ( T_CLTS ),
DT1 or DT2
.RB ( T_COTS ),
message.  This varies depending on the protocol variant and options supported
as well as the protocol class of the provider.  Also, for a specific SCCP
provider, this value may be different depending on the limitations of the
underlying MTP.  The maximum value that will be reported here for SCCP is
guaranteed to be less than 3094.  For a typical SCCP provider using narrow
band MTP, this value will be as small as 248 bytes.  For
.BR sua "(4) or " tali (4),
this value could be
.BR T_INFINITE .
.TP
.I etsdu
Only SCCP protocol class 3
.RB ( T_SCCP_PCLASS_3 )
supports the concept of expedited data.  SCCP conforming transport providers
always return
.B T_INVALID
for any protocol class other than 3.  For protocol class 3, this value will be
comparible in size to the
.IR tsdu .
.TP
.I connect
SCCP protocol classes 2 and 3 support the concept of connection data.  SCCP
conforming transport providers always return
.B T_INVALID
for protocol classes 0 or 1.  For protocol classes 2 and 3, this value will be
comparible in size to (but slightly smaller than) the
.IR tsdu .
.TP
.I discon
SCCP protocol classes 2 and 3 support the concept of disconnection data.  SCCP
conforming transport providers always return
.B T_INVALID
for protocol classes 0 or 1.  For protocol classses 2 and 3, this value will
be comparible in size to (but slightly smaller than) the
.IR tsdu .
.TP
.I servtype
SCCP supports both connectionless and connection-oriented modes.  SCCP
conforming transport providers may return
.BR T_CLTS " or " T_COTS .
SCCP conforming transport providers will not return
.BR T_COTS_ORD .
Only protocol classes 0 and 1 are supported by a SCCP provider returning
.B T_CLTS
in this field.  Only protocol classes 2 and 3 are supported by a SCCP provider
returning
.B T_COTS
in this field.
.TP
.I flags
SCCP does not support orderly release or orderly release with disconnection
data.  SCCP conforming transport providers will not return
.BR T_ORDRELDATA " or " T_SNDZERO
flags. SCCP conforming providers may return
.BR XPG4_1 .
.\"
.\"
.SS t_listen\fR(3)
.PP
.B SCCP
supports connection indications in connect-oriented mode.  If this XTI/TLI call is
issued on a connectionless service provider, the XTI/TLI call will fail, return -1
and
.IR t_errno (3)
will be set to 
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.B SCCP
connection-oriented service providers will support all fields in the
.I call
parameter:
.IR call->addr ", " call->opt ", " call->udata " and " call->sequence .
Options returned in
.I call->opt
will include the
.I T_SCCP_PCLASS
which can have values
.BR T_SCCP_PCLASS_2 " or " T_SCCP_PCLASS_3 .
The
.I call->addr
parameter contains the address, including any global title information, that
was provided by the calling party.  If connection data is sent by the peer, it
will be included in the
.I call->udata
parameter.
.\"
.\"
.SS t_open\fR(3)
.PP
.B SCCP
conforming transport service providers will return in the
.B t_info
structure the same information as returned to the
.BR t_getinfo (3)
XTI/TLI library call as described above.  Otherwise, this function operates as
described in
.BR t_open (3).
.\"
.\"
.SS t_optmgmt\fR(3)
.PP
.B SCCP
conforming transport providers suppor the options described under
.IR \(lqOPTIONS\(rq ,
above.
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvconnect\fR(3)
.PP
.B SCCP
supports receiving connection confirmations in connection-oriented protocol
classes.
The SCCP provider will always provide the responding address in the
.I call->addr
parameter, pertinent options in the
.I call->opt
parameter, and connection response peer SCCP user data in the
.I call->udata
parameter.
Options passed by the SCCP provider include:
.BR T_SCCP_SEQ_CTRL ,
that represent the sequence control value of the peer; and
.BR T_SCCP_PCLASS ,
that represents the negotiated protocol class for the connection.
.PP
Otherwise, this XTI/TLI library call functions as decribed in
.BR t_rcvconnect (3).
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvdis\fR(3)
.PP
.B SCCP
supports disconnection indications with reason codes.  For SCCP conforming
transport service providers, the
.I dis->reason
field will be completed and will contain one of the following values:
.PP
When an existing transport connection is being disconnected, one of the
following
.I dis->reason
values apply:
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_END_USER_ORIGINATED
the remote SCCP peer user released the transport connection.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_END_USER_BUSY
the remote SCCP peer user released the transport connection due to user congestion.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_END_USER_FAILURE
the remote SCCP peer user release the transport connection due to a failure at
the remote user.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_SCCP_USER_ORIGINATED
the remote SCCP peer user release the transport connection.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_REMOTE_PROCEDURE_ERROR
the remote SCCP provider released the transport connection due to a procedural error.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_INCONSISTENT_CONNECTION_DATA
the local SCCP provider released the transport connection due to inconsistent
connection data returned by the remote peer in response to an inactivity test.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_ACCESS_FAILURE
the remote SCCP provider released the transport connection due to the
inaccessibility of the remote SCCP user.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_ACCESS_CONGESTION
the remote SCCP provider released the transport connection due to congestion
at the remote SCCP user.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_SUBSYSTEM_FAILURE
the SCCP provider released the transport connection due to failure of the
remote subsystem.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_SUBSYSTEM_CONGESTION
the SCCP provider released the transport connection due to congestion of the
remote subsystem.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_MTP_FAILURE
the SCCP provider released the transport connection due to failure of the
remote MTP.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_NETWORK_CONGESTION
the SCCP provider released the transport connnection due to network
congestion.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_EXPIRATION_OF_RESET_TIMER
the SCCP provider released the transport connection due to
expiration of the reset timer.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_EXPIRATION_OF_RECEIVE_INACTIVITY_TIMER
the SCCP provider released the transport connection due to
expiration of the receive inactivity timer.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_RESERVED
this value is reserved.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_UNQUALIFIED
the SCCP provider released the transport connection due to
an unqualified (unspecified or unknown) reason.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RELC_SCCP_FAILURE
the SCCP provider released the transport connection due to
failure of the remote SCCP.
.PP
When a transport connection request is being refused, one of the following
.I dis->reason
values apply:
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_END_USER_ORIGINATED
the remote SCCP peer user refused the transport connection.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_END_USER_CONGESTION
the remote SCCP peer user refused the transport connection due to congestion.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_END_USER_FAILURE
the remote SCCP peer user refused the transport connection due to failure.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_SCCP_USER_ORIGINATED
the remote SCCP peer user refused the transport connection.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_DESTINATION_ADDRESS_UNKNOWN
the SCCP provider refused the transport connection because the
destination SCCP endpoint address was unknown.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_DESTINATION_INACCESSIBLE
the SCCP provider refused the transport connection because the destination
SCCP endpoint was inaccessible.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_NETWORK_RESOURCE_QOS_NOT_AVAIL_PERM
the SCCP provider refused the transport connection because the requested QoS
(protocol class) was is not available (permanent).
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_NETWORK_RESOURCE_QOS_NOT_AVAIL_TRANS
the SCCP provider refused the transport connection because the requested QoS
(protocol class) was is not available (transient).
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_ACCESS_FAILURE
the remote SCCP provider refused the transport connection due to user access
failure.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_ACCESS_CONGESTION
the remote SCCP provider refused the transport connection due to user access
congestion.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_SUBSYSTEM_FAILURE
the SCCP provider refused the transport connection due to remote subsystem
failure.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_SUBSYSTEM_CONGESTION
the SCCP provider refused the transport connection due to remote subsystem
congestion.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_EXPIRATION_OF_NC_ESTAB_TIMER
the SCCP provider refused the transport connection due to timeout.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_INCOMPATIBLE_USER_DATA
the SCCP provider refused the transport connection due to incompatible user
data.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_RESERVED
this value is reserved.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_UNQUALIFIED
the SCCP provider refused the transport connection due to an unqualified
(unspecified or unknown) reason.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_SCCP_HOP_COUNTER_VIOLATION
the network refused the transport connection due to a hop counter violation.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_SCCP_FAILURE
the SCCP provider refused the transport connectino due to remote SCCP failure.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_NO_ADDRESS_TYPE_TRANSLATION
the network refused the transport connection due to the inability to translate
the remote SCCP endpoint address.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_REFC_UNEQUIPPED_USER
the SCCP provider refused the transport connection due to an unequipped remote
SCCP user.
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcv\fR(3), \fBt_rcvv\fR(3)
.PP
For connection-oriented SCCP transport service providers, these XTI/TLI library
calls receive data from the remote SCCP peer on a connected transport stream.
For connectionless modes, these XTI/TLI library calls will fail, return -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvreldata\fR(3)
.PP
.B SCCP
does not support orderly release indications with user data.  The
.BR t_rcvreldata (3)
XTI/TLI library call will fail, return -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvrel\fR(3)
.PP
.B SCCP
does not support orderly release indications.  The
.BR t_rcvrel (3)
XTI/TLI library call will fail, return -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvudata\fR(3), \fBt_rcvvudata\fR(3)
.PP
For connectionless SCCP transport service providers, these XTI/TLI library calls
receive a unit data from the SCCP perr with the indicated options, described
under
.IR \(lqOPTIONS\(rq ,
above.  For connection-oriented transport service providers, these XTI/TLI library
calls will fail, return -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvuderr\fR(3)
.PP
.B SCCP
will only return errors for unit data messages for which the option
.I T_SCCP_RET_ERROR
was set on transmission.  For unit data messages for which the optoin
.I T_SCCP_RET_ERROR
was not set, no unit data error will be returned.
.B SCCP
will return the options specified under
.IR \(lqOPTIONS\(rq ,
above.
.PP
.B SCCP
defines the following protocol dependent error codes:
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_NO_ADDRESS_TYPE_TRANSLATION
the network returned the unit data because there was no translation for the
called party address in the message.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_NO_ADDRESS_TRANSLATION
the network returned the unit data because the called part address required
translation and no address translation was available.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_SUBSYSTEM_CONGESTION
the network returned the unit data because of remote subsystem congestion.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_SUBSYSTEM_FAILURE
the network returned the unit data because of remote subsystem failure.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_UNEQUIPPED_USER
the network returned the unit data due to an unequipped remote user.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_MTP_FAILURE
the network returned the unit data due to remote MTP failure.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_NETWORK_CONGESTION
the network returned the unit data due to network congestion.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_UNQUALIFIED
the network returned the unit data for an unqualified (unknown or unspecified)
reason.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_MESSAGE_TRANSPORT_ERROR
the network returned the unit data due to a transport error.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_LOCAL_PROCESSING_ERROR
the network returned the unit data due to a local processing error.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_NO_REASSEMBLY_AT_DESTINATION
the network returned the unit data because it required reassembly at the
destination an no reassembly was available at the destination.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_SCCP_FAILURE
the network returned the unit data due to remote SCCP failure.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_SCCP_HOP_COUNTER_VIOLATION
the network returned the unit data due to a hop counter violation.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_SEGMENTATION_NOT_SUPPORTED
the network returned the unit data because segmentation of the message was
required and segmentation was not supported.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_SEGMENTATION_FAILURE
the network returned the unit data because segmentation of the message was
required and segmentation failed.
.PP
The following error codes will be returned by some protocol variants with some
protocol additional options:
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_MESSAGE_CHANGE_FAILURE
the network returned the unit data because a change between [XL]UDT was
necessary but failed.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_INVALID_INS_ROUTING_REQUEST
the network returned the unit data because it contained an invalid
intermediate network selector.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_INVALID_INSI_ROUTING_REQUEST
the network returned the unit data because it contained an invalid
intermediate network signalling identifier.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_UNAUTHORIZED_MESSAGE
the network returned the unit data because the message failed authorization
screening.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_MESSAGE_INCOMPATIBILITY
the network returned the unit data because it was incompatible with a network
across a relay node.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_CANNOT_PERFORM_ISNI_CONSTRAINED_ROUTING
the network returned the unit data because it required ISNI constrained
routing and the requested routing could not be performed.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_REDUNDANT_ISNI_CONSTRAINED_ROUTING_INFO
the network returned the unit data because it required ISNI constrained
routing but contained redundant (invalid) routing information.
.TP
.I T_SCCP_RETC_UNABLE_TO_PERFORM_ISNI_IDENTIFICATION
the network returned the unit data because it required ISNI identification and
no identification was available.
.\"
.\"
.SS t_snddis\fR(3)
.PP
For connection-oriented SCCP transport service providers, this XTI/TLI library
call releases an existing transport connection, or refuses a transport
connection indication, associated with the requesting stream.  For
connectionless service providers, this XTI/TLI library call fails, returns -1 and
sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.PP
For connection-oriented SCCP transport service providers, if the caller does
not specify the responding address,
.IR call->addr ,
the SCCP provider can supply the responding address from the bound address or
the destination address of the connection request.
.B SCCP
does not support disconnection data when the disconnection is a refusal of a
connection request; i.e. the 
.I call->udata
parameter must be empty, otherwise the XTI/TLI library call will fail, return -1
and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TBADDATA ].
Otherwise, the call functions as described in
.BR t_snddis (3).
.\"
.\"
.SS t_snd\fR(3), \fBt_sndv\fR(3)
.PP
For connection-oriented SCCP transport service providers, these XTI/TLI library
calls are used to send data, with or without gather, to the SCCP peer user.
These functions operate as described in
.BR t_snd "(3) and " t_sndv (3).
.\"
.\"
.SS t_sndreldata\fR(3)
.PP
.B SCCP
does not support sending orderly release with user data.  The
.BR t_sndreldata (3)
XTI/TLI library call will fail, return -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_sndrel\fR(3)
.PP
.B SCCP
does not support sending orderly release.  The
.BR t_sndrel (3)
XTI/TLI library call will fail, return -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_sndudata\fR(3), \fBt_sndvudata\fR(3)
.PP
For connectionless SCCP transport service providers, this XTI/TLI call sends a
unit data to the SCCP peer with the specified options, described under
.IR \(lqOPTIONS\(rq ,
above.  For connection-oriented SCCP transport service providers, these XTI/TLI
library calls will fail, return -1 and set
.IR t_errno 93)
to
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_unbind\fR(3)
.PP
This function operates as described in
.BR t_unbind (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "CAVEATS"
.PP
.B SCCP
connectionless transport service providers only support protocol classes 0 and
1.
.B SCCP
connection-oriented transport service providers only support protocol classes
2 nd 3.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.BR xti (3),
.BR xnet (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "DEVICES"
.PP
There are a number of SCCP devices providing the Transport Provider Interface
that provide SCCP conforming TPI devices as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.IR /dev/sccp-tpi-cl ", " /dev/sccp-tpi-co
For more information on the SS7 SCCP device, see
.BR sccp (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.IR /dev/tali-sccp-tpi-cl ", " /dev/tali-sccp-tpi-co
For more information on the TALI SCCP device, see
.BR tali (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.IR /dev/sua-tpi-cl ", " /dev/sua-tpi-co
For more information on the SIGTRAN SUA device, see
.BR sua (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "VERSIONS"
.PP
The
.B SCCP-TPI
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
stack.
This is an unofficial Corrigendum to XNS 5.2 Revision 2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
