'\" tr
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: xti_tcap.3,v 0.9 2004/01/17 07:57:47 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 07:57:47 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH XTI-TCAP 3 "$Date: 2004/01/17 07:57:47 $" "$Name:  $" "X/Open Transport Interface"
.\"
.\"
.SH "NAME"
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_ss7.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_mtp.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_sccp.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_tcap.h>
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " tcap_xistr " = t_open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
This section describes the protocol-sepcific information that is relevant of
TCAP transport providers.  This section also described the protoocl-specific
information that is relevant when TCAP services are provider over an IP
network using SUA or TALI.
.\"
.\"
.PP
This section also defines the data structure and constants required for TCAP
transport provider that are exposed through the
.B <xti_tcap.h>
header file.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ADDRESS FORMATS"
.PP
The TCAP address format is a
.B t_sccp_addr_t
structure as defined in
.BR xti_sccp (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
Options are formatted according to the
.B t_opthdr
structure as described in
.BR xti (3).
A TCAP transport provider compliant to this specification supports none, all
or any subset of the options defined here.  An implementation may restrict the
use of any of these options by offerming them only in the priviledged or
read-only mode.  TUA transport providers only support a subset of the options
defined here.
.\"
.\"
.PP
A TCAP conforming transport provider supports four levels of options.  These
four level are described below.
.\"
.\"
.SS T_SS7_SS7
.PP
Options within this level are specific to Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) and
are common to all the protocol levels in SS7.  For more information see
.BR xti_ss7 (3).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SS7_PVAR
.TP
.B T_SS7_MPLEV
.TP
.B T_SS7_DEBUG
.TP
.B T_SS7_CLUSTER
.\"
.\"
.SS T_SS7_MTP
.PP
Options within this level are specific to the Message Transfer Part (MTP), yet
are used by SS7 protocol levels representing MTP Users.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_MTP_SLS
.TP
.B T_MTP_MP
.\"
.\"
.SS T_SS7_SCCP
.PP
Options within this level are specific to the Signalling Connection Control
Part (SCCP), yet are used by SS7 protocol levels representing MTP Users.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SEQ_CTRL
.TP
.B T_SCCP_PRIORITY
.TP
.B T_SCCP_PCLASS
.TP
.B T_SCCP_IMPORTANCE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RET_ERROR
.\"
.\"
.SS T_SS7_TCAP
.PP
Options within this level are specific to the Transaction Capabilities
Application Part, yeat are used by SS7 protocol levels representing MTP Users.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_TCAP_OPCLASS
.TP
.B T_TCAP_APPCTX
.\"
.\"
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_accept\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_bind\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_close\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_connect\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_getinfo\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_listen\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_open\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_optmgmt\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvconnect\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvdis\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcv\fR(3), \fBt_rcvv\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvreldata\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvudata\fR(3), \fBt_rcvvudata\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvuderr\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_snddis\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_snd\fR(3), \fBt_sndv\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_sndreldata\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_sndrel\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_sndudata\fR(3), \fBt_sndvudata\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_unbind\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "CAVEATS"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_ss7 (3),
.BR xti_mtp (3),
.BR xti_sccp (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "DEVICES"
.PP
There are number of TCAP devices providing the Transport Provider Interface
that provide TCAP conforming TPI devices as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/tcap-tpi-cl ", " /dev/tcap-tpi-co
For more information on the SS7 TCAP device, see
.BR tcap (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/tua-tpi-cl ", " /dev/tua-tpi-co
For more information on the SIGTRAN TUA device, see
.BR tua (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "VERSIONS"
.PP
The
.B TCAP-TPI
driver is specific to the
.BR OpenSS7
stack.  This is an unofficial Corrigendum to XNS 5.2 Revision 2.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
