'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: xti_tr.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2009-03-02 05:14:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-03-02 05:14:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: xti_tr.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2009-03-02 05:14:53  brian
.\" - updates
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH XTI-TR 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "XTI/TLI Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B xti_tr
\- X/Open Transport Interface \(em Corrigendum for Transaction Handling Sublayer (TR) of TCAP
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_ss7.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_mtp.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_sccp.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_tr.h>
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " tr_xtistr " = t_open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This section describes the protocol-specific information
that is relevant for TR
.[
q771
.]
.[
tcapv2
.]
.[
t1.114
.]
transport providers; it describes the protocol-specific information that is
relevant when TR services
.[
q771
.]
are provided over and IP network using the Transaction Handling services of TUA
.[
tua-02
.]
.BR ( tua (4))
or TALI
.[
TALI
.]
.RB ( tali (4));
and it defines the data structure and constants required for TR transport provider
that are exposed through the XTI/TLI
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.[
xns99
.]
.B <xti_tr.h>
header file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B XTI-TR
isa n
.I X/Open Transport Interface
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.[
xns99
.]
based interface with specific support of the Signalling System Number 7,
Transaction Capabilities, Transaction Handling (TR) sublayer.
.[
q771
.]
.[
tcapv2
.]
.[
t1.114
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH "ADDRESS FORMATS"
.PP
The TR address format is a
.B t_sccp_addr_t
structure as defined in
.BR xti_sccp (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Options are formatted according to the
.B t_opthdr
structure as described in
.BR xti (3).
A TR transport provider compliant to this specification supports none, all or
any subset of the options defined here.  An implementation may restrict the use of
any of these options by offerming them only in the priviledged or read-only mode.
TUA Transaction Handling transport providers only support a subset of the options
defined here.
.\"
.\"
.SH MAPPING OF PRIMITIVES
.PP
The TR service primitives
.[
q771
.]
map onto the XTI functions as follows
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77

