'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: xti_sscop.3.man,v 0.9.2.11 2008-04-29 07:10:17 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:17 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: xti_sscop.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.11  2008-04-29 07:10:17  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2008-04-25 08:58:50  brian
.\" - updated references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/12/23 13:07:02  brian
.\" - manual page and other package updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:43:00  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH XTI-SSCOP 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "XTI/TLI Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B xti_sscop
\- X/Open Transport Interface \- Corrigendum for Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol (SSCOP)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_sscop.h>
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " sscop_xistr " = t_open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This manual section describes the protocol-specific information that is relevant for SSCOP
.[
q2110
.]
.[
q2111
.]
transport providers; it describes the protocol-specific information that is relevant when SSCOP
services
are provided over an IP network using SSCOPMCE.
.[
q2111
.]
and it defines the data structure and constants required for SSCOP transport providers that are
exposed through the XTI/TLI
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.[
xns99
.]
.B <xti_sscop.h>
header file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B XTI-SSCOP
is an
.I X/Open Transport Interface
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.[
xns99
.]
based interface with specific support of the Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol (SSCOP).
.[
q2110
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH "ADDRESS FORMAT"
.PP
The SSCOP address format is implied.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Options are formatted according to the
.B t_opthdr
structure as described in
.BR xti (3).
An SSCOP transport provider compliant to this specification supports none, all
or any subset of the options defined here.  An implementation may restrict the
use of any of these options by offering them only in the privileged or
read-only mode.  SSCOPMCE
.[
q2111
.]
.RB ( sscop-mce (4))
transport providers only support a subset of
the options defined here.
.\"
.\"
.PP
An SSCOP conforming transport provider may support several levels of options, but supports at least the
option level as described below.
.\"
.SS T_ATM_SSCOP
.PP
Options within this level are specific to Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol (SSCOP) and
are common to all the providers of SSCOP services.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The options defined with the option level
.B T_ATM_SSCOP
are as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SSCOP_OPTIONS

.\"
.\"
.SH FUNCTIONS
.PP
TODO.
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
The SSCOP does not support a true connectionless service and only provides a true connection
oriented or pseudo-connectionless service emulated using on-demand connections.
.PP
THIS MANUAL PAGE IS INCOMPLETE.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
There are a number of SSCOP devices providing the Trasnport Provider Interface
that provide SSCOP conforming TPI devices as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/sscop
This device provides a true connection oriented SSCOP transport provider.
For more information on the SSCOP device, see
.BR sscop (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/sscop-mce
This device provides a true connection oriented SSCOP trasnport provider.
For more information on the SSCOPMCE
.[
q2111
.]
device, see
.BR sscop-mce (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xti (3),
.BR xnet (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B XTI-SSCOP
driver is specific to the
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This is an unofficial Corrigendum to
.IR "XNS 5.2 Revision 2" .
.[
xns99
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The XTI-SSCOP interface first appears in the
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
