'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: lis_malloc.9lis,v 0.9 2004/02/29 19:07:46 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/02/29 19:07:46 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH LIS_MALLOC 9 "$Date: 2004/02/29 19:07:46 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS LiS BCM"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B lis_malloc
\- allocate memory
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <linux/liscompat.h>
.HP 8
.BI "void *lis_malloc(int " nbytes ", int " class ", int " use_cache ", char *" file_name ", int " line_nr );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Allocates memory.
.TP 12
.I nbytes
is the number of bytes of memory to allocate.
.TP 12
.I class
is the class of the memory.  This value can be one of the Linux kernel general
fault protection classes
described for
.BR kmalloc (9).
.TP 12
.I use_cache
indicates whether to use an
.B LiS
general memory cache.  This memory cache is rather useless in
.B LiS
an affords no performance or other savings by its use.  The
.I use_cache
field is ignored by the
.IR "LiS Binary Compatibility Module" .
.TP 12
.I file_name
is the name of the file in which the call appears, introduced by an LiS
debugging macro.
.TP 12
.I line_nr
the line number within the file, introduced by an LiS debugging macro.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
This function is part of the
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.IR "LiS Binary Compatibility Module" .
.[
LfS
.]
.PP
In
.BR LiS ,
.[
LiS
.]
this function just calls
.BR kmalloc (9).
For binary compatibility, this function calls
.BR kmem_alloc (9).
Do not call this function if you can avoid it.
Use
.BR kmem_alloc (9)
directly in all new
.IR STREAMS (4)
modules and drivers.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR lis_malloc (9),
.BR kmem_alloc (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.BR kmem_alloc (9)
function has no known bugs.
.B LfS
.[
LfS
.]
is not bug for bug compatible with
.B LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This function is provided by
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
for binary compatibility with
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
only.  The
.B LfS
.[
LfS
.]
.BR kmem_alloc (9)
call that this invokes conforms to
SVR 4.2.
.[
svr42
.]
See
.BR kmem_alloc (9).
.\"
.\"
.TI

