'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: lis_unlink.9lis,v 0.9 2004/02/29 19:07:46 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/02/29 19:07:46 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH UNLINK 9 "$Date: 2004/02/29 19:07:46 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
\fBunlink\fR, \fBlis_unlink\fR - remove a file
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <linux/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <linux/dki.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int lis_unlink(char *" pathname );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR unlink ()
is an
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
wrapper function to the system call
.BR unlink (2)
that can be called from the kernel.
.PP
The purpose of this function being called from the kernel is to permit
.IR STREAMS (4)
kernel modules to create their own character special devices in the
.B /dev
directory and dynamically allocate device major numbers to those devices.
.PP
Normally, a character special device would be created by a
.IR STREAMS (4)
module or driver when the
.B Linux
kernel module loads (i.e. within the
.BR init_module ()
function).
Normally,
.BR unlink ()
would be called within the kernel module
.BR cleanup_module ()
function to remove the character special devices that were created during
module intialization.
.PP
The arguments to
.BR unlink ()
are the same as for
.BR unlink (2).
.PP
.I pathname
is the path to the file to remove.
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR unlink (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR unlink ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR unlink ()
returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR unlink ()
fails, it returns a negative error number that can contain any of the errors
listed under
.BR unlink (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR unlink ()
is implemented by changing the data segment to the kernel data segment and
calling
.BR mount (2).
This means that the
.BR uid " and " euid
of the caller is not changed.
This makes this function rather useless if the process invoking it is not the
kernel module loading daemon, or other process running with real root
permission.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR unlink (2),
.BR lis_mount (9),
.BR lis_umount2 (9),
.BR lis_mknod (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.B LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
.PP
.BR unlink ()
appeared in SVR 2.
.\"
.\"
.TI
