'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH _NDERROR 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B _nderror
\- network selection error number
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 12
.B #include <netdir.h>
.HP
.BI "int " _nderror ;
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.PP
.IR UNIX \(rg
has traditionally provided three components of the Network Services Library,
.BR libnsl (3),
that are associated with Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9)
network pseudo-device drivers, and that are not currently part of the
.B Linux
Network Services Library.  These components are:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
Network Configuration database access, see
.BR netconfig (3).
.PD 0
.IP 2.
Network Directory and address mapping, see
.BR netdir (3).
.IP 3.
Network Path access, see
.BR netpath (3).
.PD
.PP
These are often refered to as the Network Selection facility of the Network
Services Library.
.PP
.B _nderror
contains the last name-to-address mapping function,
.BR netdir (3),
error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B _nderror
is provided primarily for use by name-to-address mapping function shared object libraries as
described in
.BR netdir (5).
It is not intended to be used directly by the name-to-address mapping function library user.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B _nderror
is implemented as thread-specific data when linked with the
.BR pthreads (3)
library,
.BR libpthreads.so .
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
When a name-to-address mapping function returns an error, it places the name-to-address error number
in
.BR _nderror .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The error string associated with the current value of
.B _nderror
can be obtained using the
.BR netdir_sperror (3)
function.  The string prefixed by a caller supplied string, a colon and a space, can be printed to
standard error using the
.BR netdir_perror (3)
function.
.PP
.B _nderror
can contain one of the following values:
.TP \w'[\fBND_FAILCTRL\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ ND_NOMEM ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: memory allocation failed" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function could not allocate memory necessary to complete the
operation.
.TP
.RB [ ND_OK ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: successful completion" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function completed successfully, or there was no previous
name-to-address translation function called.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOHOST ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: hostname not found" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function,
.BR netdir_getbyname (3),
could not find, or does not support, the specified host name.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOSERV ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: service name not found" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function,
.BR netdir_getbyname (3),
could not find, or does not support, the specified service name.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOSYM ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: symbol missing in shared object : %s" \(rq
.IP ""
One of the required symbols, see
.BR netdir (5),
was missing from a shared object specified in the
.I nc_lookup
member of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure referenced by a
.I config
argument.
.I %s
is replaced with the last
.BR dlerror (3)
string.
.TP
.RB [ ND_OPEN ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: could not open shared object : %s" \(rq
.IP ""
One of the shared objects specified in the
.I nc_lookup
member of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure referenced by a
.I config
argument could not be opened.
.I %s
is replaced with the last
.BR dlerror (3)
string.
.TP
.RB [ ND_ACCESS ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: access denied for shared object" \(rq
.IP ""
One of the shared objects specified in the
.I nc_lookup
member of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure referenced by a
.I config
argument could not be opened due to access permission.
.TP
.RB [ ND_UKNWN ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: attempt to free unknown object" \(rq
.IP ""
.BR netdir_free (3)
was called with an unknown
.I struct_type
argument value.
.TP
.RB [ ND_BADARG ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: bad arguments passed to routine" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function was passed a bad argument.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOCTRL ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: unknown option passed" \(rq
.IP ""
.BR netdir_options (3)
was passed an unknown
.I option
argument value.
.TP
.RB [ ND_FAILCTRL ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: control operation failed" \(rq
.IP ""
The
.BR netdir_options (3)
control operation failed.
.TP
.RB [ ND_SYSTEM ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: system error" \(rq
.IP ""
During the last name-to-address translation function, a system error occurred.  This could be
because a segmentation fault occurred.
.TP
.RB [ ??? ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: unknown error" \(rq
.IP ""
An internal error occured in the
.BR libxnsl (3)
library or a loaded shared object.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See
.BR netconfig (5).
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.so
The X/Open Network Services Library shared object library.
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.a
The X/Open Network Services Library static library.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR netconfig (3),
.BR netconfig (5),
.BR netpath (3),
.BR netdir (3),
.BR netdir (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B _nderror
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B _nderror
is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
describe the
.BR netdir_sperror ()
subroutine as returning a pointer to thread-specific data and that the buffer
could change at any point.  While the error value is saved as thread-specific
data, this implementation of
.BR netdir_sperror ()
returns a pointer to a shared read-only string that is valid for the duration
of the calling process.
.IP \(em
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
stores the error condition in
.IR _nderror (3).
.IP \(em
Diagnostic message strings are not documented and are incompatible.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility would only be coincidental.
.IP \(em
On
.IR UNIX \(rg
systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of the Network Services
Library,
.BR libnsl (3);
however,
.B Linux
already has a library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these
components), and, therefore,
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
renames the library to
.BR libxnsl.so .
.PP
See
.BR libnsl (3)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The network configuration subroutines first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
These subroutines are related to the
.IR UNIX \(rg
.BR STREAMS (9)
implementation of network transport providers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

