'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: getnetconfig.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2006/09/22 20:54:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/09/22 20:54:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: getnetconfig.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/09/22 20:54:21  brian
.\" - added TI-RPC references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/17 23:36:57  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH GETNETCONFIG 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B getnetconfig
\- get an entry from the network selection database
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #include <netconfig.h>
.HP
.BI "struct netconfig *getnetconfig(void *" handle );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP \w'handle\(em'u
.I handle
an opaque pointer returned by
.BR setnetconfig (3)
to be used as an argument to calls to
.BR getnetconfig ()
and
.BR endnetconfig (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.IR UNIX \(rg
has traditionally provided three components of the Network Services Library,
.BR libnsl ,
that are associated with Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9)
network pseudo-device drivers, and that are not currently part of the
.B Linux
Network Services Library.  These components are:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
Network Configuration database access, see
.BR netconfig (3).
.PD 0
.IP 2.
Network Path access, see
.BR netpath (3).
.IP 3.
Name-to-Address Translation, see
.BR netdir (3).
.PD
.PP
The first two are often refered to as the Network Selection facility of the
Network Services Library.
.PP
The
.BR netconfig (3)
component (of which
.BR endnetconfig ()
is a member) consists of an interface that provides a set of Network
Configuration database access subroutines for accessing the Network
Configuration database contained in the
.BR /etc/netconfig ,
.BR netconfig (5),
file:
.BR setnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR endnetconfig (),
.BR getnetconfigent (3),
.BR freenetconfigent (3),
.BR nc_perror "(3) and "
.BR nc_sperror (3).
.PP
Of these,
.BR setnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfig "() and "
.BR endnetconfig (3),
provide a mechanism to sequentially access each entry in the Network
Configuration database.
.PP
.BR getnetconfig (),
when called successively with the
.I handle
returned by the call to
.BR setnetconfig (3),
returns each Network Configuration database entry starting with the first.
When no additional entries remain that have not already been retreived since
the call to
.BR setnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfig ()
returns a NULL pointer to indicate that the end of the database has been
reached.
.PP
.BR nc_perror (3)
and
.BR nc_sperror (3)
provide a mechanism for providing diagnostic messages upon failure.  These
subroutines can be used for this
.B netconfig
subroutines, as well as
.BR netpath (3)
subroutines.
.\"
.\"
.SS "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
The format of the
.B /etc/netconfig
Network Configuration database file is as described in
.BR netconfig (5).
.\"
.\"
.SS "DATABASE STRUCTURE"
.PP
The
.B netconfig
structure is defined in
.RB < netconfig.h >
as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct netconfig {
    char *nc_netid;      /* network id string */
    ulong nc_semantics;  /* service interface semantics */
    ulong nc_flag;       /* flags */
    char *nc_protofmly;  /* protocol family string */
    char *nc_proto;      /* protocol name string */
    char *nc_device;     /* STREAMS device path */
    ulong nc_nlookups;   /* num. of name-to-address libs */
    char **nc_lookups;   /* name-to-address libraries */
    ulong nc_unused[9];  /* reserved for future use */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Where the members of the
.B netconfig
structure are as follows:
.TP \w'nc_protofmly\(em'u
.I nc_netid
The network identifier string defined by the system administrator and unique
to each entry in the network configuration database file.
.TP
.I nc_semantics
The semantics describing the service interface of the associated
.I STREAMS
transport service provider.
.I nc_semantics
can take on one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'NC_TPI_COTS_ORD\(em'u
.B NC_TPI_CLTS
Transport Provider interface,
.BR tpi (7),
Connectionless Transport Service.
.PD 0
.TP
.B NC_TPI_COTS
Transport Provider interface,
.BR tpi (7),
Connection-Oriented Transport Service.
.TP
.B NC_TPI_COTS_ORD
Transport Provider interface,
.BR tpi (7),
Connection-Oriented Transport Service with Orderly Release.
.TP
.B NC_TPI_RAW
Transport Provider interface,
.BR tpi (7),
Raw Transport Service.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I nc_flag
Flags associated with the transport entry.
.I nc_flag
can take on one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'NC_TPI_COTS_ORD\(em'u
.B NC_NOFLAG
No option flag is indicated.
.PD 0
.TP
.B NC_VISIBLE
The visible option flag is indicated.  This means that the network transport
provider is visible to
.BR getpath (3)
when the
.B NETPATH
environment variable is not set.
.TP
.B NC_BROADCAST
The broadcast option flag is indicated.  This means that the network transport
provider supports broadcast addresses, and in particular, the
.B HOST_BROADCAST
universal address described in
.BR netdir_getbyname (3).
.TP
.B NC_MULTICAST
The multicast option flag is indicated.  This means that the network transport
provider supports multicast addresses, and in particular, the
.B HOST_ALLNODES
and
.B HOST_RPCNODES
universal addresses described in
.BR netdir_getbyname (3).
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I nc_protofmly
The protocol family string assigned by the system adminstrator.
.TP
.I nc_proto
The protocol string assigned by the system administrator.
.TP
.I nc_device
The device path to a
.I STREAMS
.BR clone (4)
device that provides access to the associated transport provider.
.TP
.I nc_nlookups
The number of name to address translation libraries.
.TP
.I nc_lookups
An array of address translation libraries.  The number of strings contained in
this array is specified with the
.I nc_nlookups
field.
.TP
.I nc_unused
Unused bytes reserved for future expansion.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR nc_perror (3)
and
.BR nc_sperror (3)
must be called immediately after the failed network configuration subroutine
fails.  Otherwise, the error condition may be lost.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.BR getnetconfig ()
returns a pointer to a
.B netconfig
structure.
Otherwise, it returns
.B NULL
to indicate failure and
.IR nc_error (3)
is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR getnetconfig ()
fails, it returns
.B NULL
and sets
.BR nc_error (3)
to one of the following error numbers:
.TP \w'[\fBNC_NOMOREENTRIES\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ NC_NOERROR ]
.RI \(lq "no error" \(rq
.br
The last network selection function called was successful or no network selection function has yet
been called.
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOMEM ]
.RI \(lq "out of memory" \(rq
.br
There was not sufficient memory for the last network selection function called to complete.
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOSET ]
.RI \(lq "routine called before calling setnetpath() or setnetconfig()" \(rq
.br
The last call to
.BR endnetconfig (3)
or
.BR getnetconfig ()
was called (incorrectly) before calling
.BR setnetconfig (3).
.TP
.RB [ NC_OPENFAIL ]
.RI \(lq "cannot open /etc/netconfig" \(rq
.br
The last call to a network selection function,
.BR setnetpath (3),
could not open the
.B /etc/netconfig
file.
.TP
.RB [ NC_BADLINE ]
.RI \(lq "error in /etc/netconfig : field %d of line %d" \(rq
.br
The last call to a network selection function detected a syntax error in the
.B /etc/netconfig
file at field
.I %d
of line
.IR %d .
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOTFOUND ]
.RI \(lq "netid not found in /etc/netconfig" \(rq
.br
The
.I netid
argument to the last call to
.BR getnetconfigent (3)
was not found in
.BR /etc/netconfig .
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOMOREENTRIES ]
.RI \(lq "no more entries in /etc/netconfig" \(rq
.br
The last call to network selection function
.BR getnetpath (3)
exhausted the entries in the
.B /etc/netconfig
file.
.TP
.RB [ ??? ]
.RI \(lq "unknown error" \(rq
.br
An internal error occured in the
.BR libxnsl (3)
library.
.PP
An error string associated with the error number can be obtained using
.BR nc_sperror (3)
or printed to standard error with
.BR nc_perror (3).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See
.BR netconfig (5).
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.so
The X/Open Network Services Library shared object library.
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.a
The X/Open Network Services Library static library.
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP
.RB { NETPATH }
This environment variable contains the network path.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR setnetconfig (3),
.BR endnetconfig (3),
.BR netconfig (5),
.BR netpath (3),
.BR nc_perror (3),
.BR nc_sperror (3),
.BR netdir (3),
.BR netdir_getbyname (3),
.IR "RFC 1833" .
.[
rfc1833
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR getnetconfig ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR getnetconfig ()
is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.IR Solaris \(rg
.I TIRPCSRC Version 2.8
version of
.BR getnetconfig ()
is not thread-safe.
This
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation is thread-safe.
.IP \(em
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
stores the error condition in
.IR nc_error (3).
.IP \(em
Diagnostic message strings are not documented and are incompatible.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility would only be coincidental.
.IP \(em
On
.IR UNIX \(rg
systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of the Network Services
Library,
.BR libnsl ;
however,
.B Linux
already has a library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these
components), and, therefore,
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
renames the library to
.BR libxnsl (3).
.PP
See
.BR libxnsl (3)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Selection subroutines first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
These subroutines are related to the
.IR UNIX \(rg
.BR STREAMS (9)
implementation of network transport providers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
