'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: inetaddr.3.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-28 18:38:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 18:38:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: inetaddr.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-28 18:38:30  brian
.\" - header updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/09/22 20:54:21  brian
.\" - added TI-RPC references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/17 23:36:57  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:44:48  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH INETADDR 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B inetaddr
\- Transport Name-to-Address translation shared object for INET
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <netconfig.h>
.br
.B #include <netdir.h>
.ad l
.hy 0
.HP 12
.RI "extern int " _nderror ;
.HP
.RI "struct nd_addrlist *\fB_netdir_getbyname\fP(struct netconfig *" tp ", struct nd_hostserv *" serv );
.HP
.RI "struct nd_hostservlist *\fB_netdir_getbyaddr\fP(struct netconfig *" tp ", struct netbuf *" addr);
.HP
.RI "int \fB_netdir_options\fP(struct netconfig *" tp ", int " opts ", int " fd ", void *" par );
.HP
.RI "char *\fB_taddr2uaddr\fP(struct netconfig *" tp ", struct netbuf *" addr );
.HP
.RI "struct netbuf *\fB_uaddr2taddr\fP(struct netconfig *" tp ", char *" addr );
.hy 6
.ad b
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Name-to-Address translation shared objects are those listed in the name-to-address libraries member,
.IR nc_lookup ,
of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure.
These n2a libraries are libraries that can be opened by the dynamic linker, see
.BR dlopen (3),
and which provide the following symbols (with the function prototypes listed under
.RI \(lq SYNOPSIS \(rq,
above, and declared in
.RB < netdir.h >):
.TP
.B _netdir_getbyname
Translate the supplied host and service name to a list of transport specific addresses.
.IP ""
When the transport supports transport-independent RPC, the service name
.RI \(lq rpcbind \(rq
should always be supported.
.IP ""
If the service name member,
.IR h_serv ,
of the
.B nd_hostserv
structure is
.BR NULL ,
the host name member,
.IR h_name ,
of the
.B nd_hostserv
structure should still be used if present and a host name only derived list of addresses should be
returned.
.IP ""
The following special host names from
.RB < netdir.h >
should be recognized:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBHOST_SELF_CONNECT\fR\(em'u
.B HOST_SELF
Local host name.
.PD 0
.TP
.B HOST_ANY
Any host name.
.TP
.B HOST_BROADCAST
All addresses accessible by transport.
.TP
.B HOST_SELF_CONNECT
Address for connecting to the local host.
.TP
.B HOST_SELF_BIND
Bind to one's self.
.TP
.B HOST_ALLNODES
All nodes (broadcast or rpcbind broadcast).
.TP
.B HOST_RPCNODES
All RPC nodes (multicast or rpcbind multicast).
.PD
.RE
.TP
.B _netdir_getbyaddr
Translate the transport specific address to a list of host and service name tuples.
.TP
.B _netdir_options
Perform options management on the transport.
.TP
.B _taddr2uaddr
Translate a transport specific address to a character string representation (universal address).
.TP
.B _uaddr2taddr
Translate a universal address (character string) to a transport specific address.
.PP
The order in which the name-to-address translation libraries are accessed is dependent upon the
order of the libraries in the
.I nc_lookup
member of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure for the specific transport specified by
.IR tp .
The corresponding symbol in each name-to-address is invoked until a success has been achieved, a
fatal error occurs (see
.RI \(lq ERRORS \(rq,
below), or the list is exhausted without success.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
General rules for implementation of the name-to-address translation procedures are as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Shared object procedures are permitted to use
.BR malloc (3),
.BR xti (3),
and low-level RPM routines.
.BR malloc (3)
is the only permitted way to allocate structures.
.IP \(bu
Procedures must not recurse on functions in the
.BR libxnsl (3)
library, but may call naming functions in the
.B Linux
.BR libnsl.so
library.
.IP \(bu
The results passed back from procedures cannot be static.  Any structures passed back must by
dynamically allocated using
.BR malloc (3)
(including universal address strings).
The caller is ultimately responsible for freeing these data structures using
.BR netdir_free (3),
for
.BR netbuf (3),
.BR nd_addrlist ,
.BR nd_hostserv ,
and
.BR nd_hostservlist
structures.  Universal address strings must be freed with
.BR free (3).
.IP \(bu
.BR _netdir_getbyname "(), " _netdir_getbyaddr "(), " _taddr2uaddr "() and " _uaddr2taddr ()
return
.B NULL
on error.
.BR _netdir_options ()
returns non-zero
on error.
.IP \(bu
Procedures must assign error values to the global
.BR _nderror (3)
thread-specific variable.  All fatal errors will cause lookup of subsequent shared object files to
terminate.  Non-fatal errors will cause the next shared object file to be called.  Fatal errors are
negative.  Non-fatal errors are positive.  Success is zero.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.BR _netdir_getbyname (),
.BR _netdir_getbyaddr (),
.BR _taddr2uaddr "() and "
.BR _uaddr2taddr (),
return a pointer to
.BR malloc (3)'ed
structure(s) or character string;
.BR _netdir_options ()
returns zero
.RB ( 0 ).
On failure,
.BR _netdir_getbyname (),
.BR _netdir_getbyaddr (),
.BR _taddr2uaddr "() and "
.BR _uaddr2taddr (),
return
.BR NULL ;
.BR _netdir_options ()
returns zero
.RB ( 0 ),
and all set
.IR _nderror (3)
to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When a procedure fails, it returns
.BR NULL ,
or a non-zero value,
and sets
.BR _nderror (3)
to an appropriate error number as described below.
Negative error numbers are fatal.  Positive error numbers are considered warnings.
When the
.BR libxnsl (3)
library function detects a fatal error, it will not try additional name-to-address shared libraries
on the lookup list and will return an error to the caller; when it detects a non-fatal error, it
continues attempting to invoke the function on subsequent name-to-address shared libraries in the
lookup list.  The first success will cause the library function to return success to the caller.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Fatal errors are as follows:
.TP \w'\fR[\fBND_NO_RECOVERY\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ ND_TRY_AGAIN ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: non-authoritative host not found" \(rq
.br
The host was not found, however, a name-to-address mapping function suffered a temporary failure
(such as a timeout).
.TP
.RB [ ND_NO_RECOVERY ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: non-recoverable error" \(rq
.br
The last name-to-address translation function suffered an unrecoverable error in one of its lookup
libraries.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NO_DATA ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: no data record of requested type" \(rq
.br
The last name-to-address translation function could find no data of the requested type in one of its
lookup libraries.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NO_ADDRESS ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: no data record of requested type" \(rq
.br
The last name-to-address translation function could find no address of the requested type in one of
its lookup libraries.
.TP
.RB [ ND_BADARG ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: bad arguments passed to routine" \(rq
.br
The last name-to-address translation function was passed a bad argument.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOMEM ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: memory allocation failed" \(rq
.br
The last name-to-address translation function could not allocate memory necessary to complete the
operation.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Non-fatal errors are as follows:
.TP \w'\fR[\fBND_NO_RECOVERY\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ ND_ACCESS ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: access denied for shared object" \(rq
.br
One of the shared objects specified in the
.I nc_lookup
member of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure referenced by a
.I config
argument could not be opened due to access permission.
.TP
.RB [ ND_FAILCTRL ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: control operation failed" \(rq
.br
The
.BR netdir_options (3)
control operation failed.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOCONVERT ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: conversion not possible" \(rq
.br
During the last name-to-address translation function it was discovered that character string
conversion was not possible.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOCTRL ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: unknown option passed" \(rq
.br
.BR netdir_options (3)
was passed an unknown
.I option
argument value.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOHOST ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: host name not found" \(rq
.br
The last name-to-address translation function,
.BR netdir_getbyname (3),
could not find, or does not support, the specified host name.
.TP
.RB [ ND_OPEN ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: could not open shared object : %s" \(rq
.br
One of the shared objects specified in the
.I nc_lookup
member of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure referenced by a
.I config
argument could not be opened.
.I %s
is replaced with the last
.BR dlerror (3)
string.
.TP
.RB [ ND_SYSTEM ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: system error" \(rq
.br
During the last name-to-address translation function, a system error occurred.
The
.B Linux
system error is in
.BR errno (3).
The
.BR xti (3)
error in
.BR t_errno (3)
might also provide some insight into the error.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOSERV ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: service name not found" \(rq
.br
The last name-to-address translation function,
.BR netdir_getbyname (3),
could not find, or does not support, the specified service name.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOSYM ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: symbol missing in shared object : %s" \(rq
.br
One of the required symbols, see
.BR netdir (5),
was missing from a shared object specified in the
.I nc_lookup
member of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure referenced by a
.I config
argument.
.I %s
is replaced with the last
.BR dlerror (3)
string.
.TP
.RB [ ND_UKNWN ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: attempt to free unknown object" \(rq
.br
.BR netdir_free (3)
was called with an unknown
.I struct_type
argument value.
.TP
.RI [ other ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: unknown error %d" \(rq
.br
An internal error occurred in the
.BR libxnsl (3)
library or a loaded shared object.
.I %d
is the decimal number of the error number that was contained in
.BR _nderror .
.PP
See
.BR _nderror (3)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Success is indicated as follows:
.TP \w'\fR[\fBND_NO_RECOVERY\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ ND_OK ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: successful completion" \(rq
.br
The last name-to-address translation function completed successfully, or there was no previous
name-to-address translation function called.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although this mechanism appears similar to the
.IR "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
mechanism, the implementation has significant differences and care should be taken when writing
these libraries.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.BI /usr/lib/ inetaddr .so
contains the
.I inetaddr
name-to-address shared object library.
.TP
.B /etc/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See
.BR netconfig (5).
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.so
The X/Open Network Services Library shared object library.
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.a
The X/Open Network Services Library static library.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR netconfig (5),
.BR netdir (5),
.BR dlopen (3),
.BR malloc (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR libxnsl (3),
.BR netdir_free (3),
.BR netbuf (3),
.BR free (3),
.BR _nderror (3),
.BR netdir_options (3),
.BR t_errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
Name-to-address translation libraries are compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR Solaris \(rg
does not document
.[
soldoc
.]
the
.BR ND_CLEAR_BROADCAST ,
.BR ND_SET_REUSEADDR
nor
.BR ND_CLEAR_REUSEADDR
options to
.BR netdir_options (3).
.IR UnixWare \(rg
does.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documents
.[
uw7doc
.]
that
.IR _nderror (3)
contains the cause of failure and that
.BR t_errno (3)
may provide some additional insights into why a call failed.
.IP \(em
Although the prototypes of the exported symbols follow the convention of
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
implementation differs and binary compatibility would only be coincidental.
.IP \(em
Name-to-address translation library names typically present on
.IR UNIX \(rg
systems are not necessarily provided.  Some libraries that provide similar translation services
might have different names.
.IP \(em
On
.IR UNIX \(rg
systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of the Network Services Library,
.BR libnsl ;
however,
.B Linux
already has a library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these components), and,
therefore,
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
renames the library to
.BR libxnsl (3).
.IP \(em
See
.BR libxnsl (3)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Name-to-address shared libraries first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
