'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: nc_perror.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2006/09/22 20:54:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/09/22 20:54:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: nc_perror.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/09/22 20:54:21  brian
.\" - added TI-RPC references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/17 23:36:57  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH NC_PERROR 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B nc_perror
\- print a network selection error message
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #include <netconfig.h>
.HP 12
.BI "void nc_perror(const char *" msg );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP \w'handle\(em'u
.I msg
A short message string to prefix (with a colon appended) to the error message printed to standard
error by the
.BR nc_perror ()
subroutine.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.IR UNIX \(rg
has traditionally provided three components of the Network Services Library,
.BR libnsl ,
that are associated with Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9)
network pseudo-device drivers, and that are not currently part of the
.B Linux
Network Services Library.  These components are:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
Network Configuration database access, see
.BR netconfig (3).
.PD 0
.IP 2.
Network Path access, see
.BR netpath (3).
.IP 3.
Name-to-Address Translation, see
.BR netdir (3).
.PD
.PP
The first two are often refered to as the Network Selection facility of the
Network Services Library.
.PP
The
.BR netconfig (3)
component (of which
.BR nc_perror ()
is a member) consists of an interface that provides a set of Network
Configuration database access subroutines for accessing the Network
Configuration database contained in the
.BR /etc/netconfig ,
.BR netconfig (5),
file:
.BR setnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR endnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfigent (3),
.BR freenetconfigent (3),
.BR nc_perror "() and "
.BR nc_sperror (3).
.PP
Of these,
.BR nc_perror ()
and
.BR nc_sperror (3)
provide a mechanism for providing diagnostic messages upon failure.  These
subroutines can be used for this
.B netconfig
subroutines, as well as
.BR netpath (3)
subroutines.
.PP
.BR nc_perror ()
prints the error message associated with the failure of the last called
.BR netconfig (3)
function.
If the
.I msg
argument is
.RB non- NULL ,
the message string prefixed to the error message followed by a colon and a space in the same manner
as
.BR perror (3).
When
.I msg
is
.BR NULL ,
no message, colon nor space is prefixed.
Following the optional colon and space, the error string returned by
.BR nc_sperror (3)
is printed followed by a new-line character.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR nc_perror ()
and
.BR nc_sperror (3)
must be called immediately after the failed network configuration subroutine
fails.  Otherwise, the error condition may be lost.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
.BR nc_perror ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR nc_perror ()
always succeeds.
.PP
One of the following error messages will be printed:
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOERROR ]
.RI \(lq "no error" \(rq
.br
The last network selection function called was successful or no network selection function has yet
been called.
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOMEM ]
.RI \(lq "out of memory" \(rq
.br
There was not sufficient memory for the last network selection function called to complete.
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOSET ]
.RI \(lq "routine called before calling setnetpath() or setnetconfig()" \(rq
.br
The last call to
.BR endnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR endnetpath (3),
or
.BR getnetpath (3)
was called (incorrectly) before calling
.BR setnetconfig (3)
or
.BR setnetpath (3).
.TP
.RB [ NC_OPENFAIL ]
.RI \(lq "cannot open /etc/netconfig" \(rq
.br
The last call to a network selection function,
.BR setnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfigent "(3) or
.BR setnetpath (3),
could not open the
.B /etc/netconfig
file.
.TP
.RB [ NC_BADLINE ]
.RI \(lq "error in /etc/netconfig : field %d of line %d" \(rq
.br
The last call to a network selection function detected a syntax error in the
.B /etc/netconfig
file at field
.I %d
of line
.IR %d .
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOTFOUND ]
.RI \(lq "netid not found in /etc/netconfig" \(rq
.br
The
.I netid
argument to the last call to
.BR getnetconfigent (3)
was not found in
.BR /etc/netconfig .
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOMOREENTRIES ]
.RI \(lq "no more entries in /etc/netconfig" \(rq
.br
The last call to network selection function
.BR getnetconfig "(3) or
.BR getnetpath (3)
exhausted the entries in the
.B /etc/netconfig
file.
.TP
.RB [ ??? ]
.RI \(lq "unknown error" \(rq
.br
An internal error occured in the
.BR libxnsl (3)
library.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See
.BR netconfig (5).
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.so
The X/Open Network Services Library shared object library.
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.a
The X/Open Network Services Library static library.
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP
.RB { NETPATH }
This environment variable contains the network path.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR setnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR endnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfigent (3),
.BR freenetconfigent (3),
.BR netconfig (5),
.BR netpath (3),
.BR netdir (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR nc_perror ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR nc_perror ()
is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
stores the error condition in
.BR _ncerror (3).
.IP \(em
Diagnostic message strings are not documented and are incompatible.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility would only be coincidental.
.IP \(em
On
.IR UNIX \(rg
systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of the Network Services
Library,
.BR libnsl ;
however,
.B Linux
already has a library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these
components), and, therefore,
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
renames the library to
.BR libxnsl (3).
.PP
See
.BR libxnsl (3)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The network configuration subroutines first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
These subroutines are related to the
.IR UNIX \(rg
.BR STREAMS (9)
implementation of network transport providers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
