'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH NETDIR_SPERROR 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B netdir_sperror
\- provide a network directory error string
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 12
.B #include <netdir.h>
.HP
.BI "char *netdir_sperror(void);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.PP
.IR UNIX \(rg
has traditionally provided three components of the Network Services Library,
.BR libnsl ,
that are associated with Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9)
network pseudo-device drivers, and that are not currently part of the
.B Linux
Network Services Library.  These components are:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
Network Configuration database access, see
.BR netconfig (3).
.PD 0
.IP 2.
Network Directory and address mapping, see
.BR netdir (3).
.IP 3.
Network Path access, see
.BR netpath (3).
.PD
.PP
These are often refered to as the Network Selection facility of the Network
Services Library.
.PP
.BR netdir_sperror ()
returns a pointer to an error string associated with the failure of the last called
.BR netdir (3)
function.
The error string is a null-terminate character string that contains no new-line character.
.BR netdir_sperror ()
work similar to
.BR strerror (3).
This error string can be printed to standard error using
.BR netdir_perror (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR netdir_perror (3)
and
.BR netdir_sperror ()
must be called immediately after the failed network configuration subroutine
fails.  Otherwise, the error condition may be lost.
.PP
For thread safety, when the library is linked with
.BR libpthread ,
the buffer returned by
.BR netdir_sperror ()
is contained in a thread-specific data area, see
.BR pthread_getspecific (3).
When the library is not linked with
.BR libpthread ,
the string returned by
.BR netdir_sperror ()
is contained in a process-specific data area.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
.BR netdir_sperror ()
returns a pointer to a statically allocated character string.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR netdir_sperror ()
always succeeds.
It returns the error string associated with the error value currently stored in
.BR _nderror (3).
.PP
One of the following error strings will be returned:
.TP \w'[\fBND_NO_RECOVERY\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ ND_TRY_AGAIN ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: non-authoritative host not found" \(rq
.IP ""
The host was not found, however, a name-to-address mapping function suffered a temporary failure
(such as a timeout).
.TP
.RB [ ND_NO_RECOVERY ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: non-recoverable error" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function suffered an unrecoverable error in one of its lookup
libraries.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NO_DATA ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: no data record of requested type" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function could find no data of the requested type in one of its
lookup libraries.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NO_ADDRESS ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: no data record of requested type" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function could find no address of the requested type in one of
its lookup libraries.
.TP
.RB [ ND_BADARG ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: bad arguments passed to routine" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function was passed a bad argument.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOMEM ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: memory allocation failed" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function could not allocate memory necessary to complete the
operation.
.TP
.RB [ ND_OK ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: successful completion" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function completed successfully, or there was no previous
name-to-address translation function called.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOHOST ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: hostname not found" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function,
.BR netdir_getbyname (3),
could not find, or does not support, the specified host name.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOSERV ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: service name not found" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function,
.BR netdir_getbyname (3),
could not find, or does not support, the specified service name.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOSYM ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: symbol missing in shared object : %s" \(rq
.IP ""
One of the required symbols, see
.BR netdir (5),
was missing from a shared object specified in the
.I nc_lookup
member of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure referenced by a
.I config
argument.
.I %s
is replaced with the last
.BR dlerror (3)
string.
.TP
.RB [ ND_OPEN ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: could not open shared object : %s" \(rq
.IP ""
One of the shared objects specified in the
.I nc_lookup
member of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure referenced by a
.I config
argument could not be opened.
.I %s
is replaced with the last
.BR dlerror (3)
string.
.TP
.RB [ ND_ACCESS ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: access denied for shared object" \(rq
.IP ""
One of the shared objects specified in the
.I nc_lookup
member of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure referenced by a
.I config
argument could not be opened due to access permission.
.TP
.RB [ ND_UKNWN ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: attempt to free unknown object" \(rq
.IP ""
.BR netdir_free (3)
was called with an unknown
.I struct_type
argument value.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOCTRL ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: unknown option passed" \(rq
.IP ""
.BR netdir_options (3)
was passed an unknown
.I option
argument value.
.TP
.RB [ ND_FAILCTRL ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: control operation failed" \(rq
.IP ""
The
.BR netdir_options (3)
control operation failed.
.TP
.RB [ ND_SYSTEM ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: system error" \(rq
.IP ""
During the last name-to-address translation function, a system error occurred.
The
.B Linux
system error is in
.BR errno (3).
The
.BR xti (3)
error in
.BR t_errno (3)
might also provide some insight into the error.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOCONVERT ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: conversion not possible" \(rq
.IP ""
During the last name-to-address translation function it was discovered that character string
conversion was not possible.
.TP
.RI [ other ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: unknown error %d" \(rq
.IP ""
An internal error occured in the
.BR libxnsl (3)
library or a loaded shared object.
.I %d
is the decimal number of the error number that was contained in
.BR _nderror (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See
.BR netconfig (5).
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.so
The X/Open Network Services Library shared object library.
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.a
The X/Open Network Services Library static library.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR netconfig (3),
.BR netconfig (5),
.BR netpath (3),
.BR netdir (3),
.BR netdir (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR netdir_sperror ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR netdir_sperror ()
is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
stores the error condition in
.IR _nderror (3).
.IP \(em
Diagnostic message strings are not documented and are incompatible.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility would only be coincidental.
.IP \(em
On
.IR UNIX \(rg
systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of the Network Services
Library,
.BR libnsl ;
however,
.B Linux
already has a library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these
components), and, therefore,
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
renames the library to
.BR libxnsl (3).
.PP
See
.BR libxnsl (3)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR netdir_sperror ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
These subroutines are related to the
.IR UNIX \(rg
.BR STREAMS (9)
implementation of network transport providers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI


