'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH NETDIR_GETBYNAME 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B netdir_getbyname, _netdir_getbyname
\- lookup address in directory service by name.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <netdir.h>
.ad l
.hy 0
.HP 12
.BI "int netdir_getbyname(struct netconfig *" config ", struct nd_hostserv *" service ", struct nd_addrlist **" addrs );
.HP
.BI "struct nd_addrlist *_netdir_getbyname(struct netconfig *" config ", struct nd_hostserv *" service );
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP \w'\fIservice\fR\(em'u
.I config
A pointer to a
.BR netconfig (5)
structure describing the network transport provider returned by
.BR getnetconfig (3)
or
.BR getnetpath (3).
.TP
.I service
A pointer to a
.B nd_hostserv
structure describing the name of a host service.
.TP
.I addrs
A pointer to a
.B nd_addrlist
array describing the returned transport address(es).
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.IR UNIX \(rg
has traditionally provided three components of the Network Services Library,
.BR libxnsl (3),
that are associated with Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9)
network pseudo-device drivers, and that are not currently part of the
.B Linux
Network Services Library.  These components are:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
Network Configuration database access, see
.BR netconfig (3).
.PD 0
.IP 2.
Network Configuration database Path access, see
.BR netpath (3).
.IP 3.
Network Directory Name and Address Service, see
.BR netdir (3).
.PD
.PP
These are often refered to as the Network Selection facility of the Network
Services Library.
.PP
.BR netdir_getbyname ()
provides a forward directory name service for the network transport protocol specified with a
pointer to a
.BR netconfig (5)
structure,
.IR config .
The
.I config
pointer is acquired using the
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfigent (3)
or
.BR getnetpath (3)
subroutines and describes a particular transport protocol from the
.BR netconfig (5)
network configuration database.
The host and service name tuple to forward lookup is specified as a pointer to a
.B nd_hostserv
structure,
.IR service ,
that contains the host and service name tuple (the structure is described below).
.BR netdir_getbyname ()
returns into the pointer referened by
.I addrs
a pointer to a
.B nd_addrlist
structure that contains the addresses associated with the name,
.IR service .
.PP
Once the
.B nd_addrlist
structure and the
.BR netbuf (3)
structures that it contrains are no longer required, they are freed by passing a pointer to the
structure to
.BR netdir_free (3)
with a
.I struct_type
argument of
.BR ND_ADDRLIST .
.\"
.\"
.SS "STRUCTURE FORMAT"
.PP
The
.BR netconfig
structure is defined in
.RB < netconfig.h >
and described in
.BR netconfig (3)
and
.BR netconfig (5).
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.B nd_hostserv
structure is defined in
.RB < netconfig.h >
and is structured as follows:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct nd_hostserv {
    char *h_name;  /* host name */
    char *h_serv;  /* service name */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIh_hostservs\fR\(em'u
.I h_name
the host (machine) name.
.PD 0
.TP
.I h_serv
the service name.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
Upon successful return, the pointer referenced by
.I addrs
pointer, points to an allocated
.B nd_addrlist
structure containing the addresses associated with the specified host and service name,
.IR service .
The
.B nd_addrlist
structure is defined in
.RB < netconfig.h >
and is structured as follows:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct nd_addrlist {
    int n_cnt;               /* number of addresses */
    struct netbuf *n_addrs;  /* the addresses (array) */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIh_hostservs\fR\(em'u
.I n_cnt
the number of addresses in the list.
.PD 0
.TP
.I n_addrs
a pointer to an array of
.B netbuf
structures forming the address list.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
Each address in the list pointed to by the
.I n_addrs
member of the
.B nd_addrlist
structure is formatted as a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure.
The
.B netbuf
structure is defined in
.RB < xti.h >
and described in
.BR netbuf (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Procedure for usage of the
.BR netdir_getbyname ()
subroutine is to first acquire a pointer to a
.BR netconfig (3)
structure representing an entry in the
.BR netconfig (5)
database using a function such as
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfigent (3)
or
.BR getnetpath (3).
Then a host and service name tuple is place in a
.B nd_hostserv
structure and passed to the
.BR netdir_getbyname ()
function.
The returned
.B nd_addrlist
structure pointer contains the address associated with the name.  Once the
.B nd_addrlist
structure is no longer required, it is freed with
.BR netdir_free (3)
with a
.I struct_type
argument of
.BR ND_ADDRLIST .
.PP
For Internet Protocol transports, (that is, when
.I config
points to a
.BR netconfig (5)
structure corresponding to an Internet Protocol Version 4 or Version 6 network),
.BR netdir_getbyname ()
is roughly equivalent to
.BR gethostbyname (3)
or
.BR getipnodebyname (3);
however,
.BR netdir_getbyname ()
is more general and applies to networks other than
.I inet
or
.IR inet6 .
Also,
.BR gethostbyname (3)
and
.BR getipnodebyname (3)
do not accept a service name, nor return a port number.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.BR netdir_getbyname ()
returns zero
.RB ( 0 )
and places pointer to an allocated
.B nd_addrlist
structure in the pointer referenced by the
.I addrs
argument.
Otherwise, minus one
.RB ( -1 )
is returned and
.I _nderror
is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR netdir_getbyname ()
fails, it returns minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and sets
.I _nderror
to one of the following error codes:
.TP \w'\fR[\fBND_NO_RECOVERY\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ ND_ACCESS ]
The user did not have sufficient privilege to use the specified address.
.TP
.RB [ ND_BADARG ]
Invalid argument.
.TP
.RB [ ND_FAILCTRL ]
Control operation failed.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NO_ADDRESS ]
Invalid address format.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOCONVERT ]
Conversion error.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOCTRL ]
Function invoked out of sequence or incorrect option specified.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NO_DATA ]
Incorrect amount of data.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOHOST ]
Host not found.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOMEM ]
Insufficient memory.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NO_RECOVERY ]
Unrecoverable error.
.TP
.RB [ ND_OPEN ]
File could not be opened.
.TP
.RB [ ND_SYSTEM ]
Fault detected.
.TP
.RB [ ND_TRY_AGAIN ]
Try again later.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOSERV ]
Service not found.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOSYM ]
Symbol not found.
.TP
.RB [ ND_UNKWN ]
Unknown object.
.TP
.RB [ ND_OK ]
Success.
.PP
When an error occurs, an error message can be printed to standard error or retrieved using
.BR netdir_perror (3)
or
.BR netdir_sperror (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Note that wen the
.I h_serv
member of the
.B nd_hostserv
structure is specified as
.BR NULL ,
.BR netdir_getbyname ()
will attempt to formulate and return host-based addresses only.
.PP
.BR netdir_perror (3)
and
.BR netdir_sperror (3)
must be called immediately after the failed network configuration subroutine fails.  Otherwise, the
error condition in
.I _nderror
may be lost.
.PP
The pointer returned to the pointer referenced by the
.I addrs
argument must eventually be released by passing it to
.BR netdir_free (3)
with a
.I struct_type
argument of
.BR ND_ADDRLIST .
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
Name to address lookup libraries that will have their
.BR _netdir_getbyname ()
dynamic symbols called to perform the lookup will be searched in the order that they appear in the
.I nc_lookups
member of the specified
.BR netconfig (5)
structure,
.IR config .
If
.I config
specifies an
.I inet
or
.I inet6
network, and the number of lookup libraries,
.IR nc_nlookups ,
is zero, the standard BSD inet lookup functions will be used.
.PP
.BR _netdir_getbyname ()
is the symbol provided by shared object lookup libraries to implement
.BR netdir_getbyname ().
If the library does not implement
.BR _netdir_getbyname (),
.BR netdir_getbyname ()
will fail, return minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and set
.I _nderror
to
.RB [ ND_NOSYM ].
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See
.BR netconfig (5).
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.so
The X/Open Network Services Library shared object library.
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.a
The X/Open Network Services Library static library.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
See
.BR netdir (3)
for an example.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR netdir (3),
.BR netconfig (5),
.BR netconfig (3),
.BR netpath (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR netdir_getbyname ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR netdir_getbyname ()
is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documents
.[
uw7doc
.]
that
.I _nderror
contains the cause of failure and that
.BR t_errno (3)
may provide some additional insights into why a call failed.
.IP ""
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
stores the error condition in
.IR _nderror (3).
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
also documents
.[
aixdoc
.]
the
.RB [ ND_NOCONVERT ]
error code.
.IP \(em
Diagnostic message strings are not documented and are incompatible.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility would only be coincidental.
.IP \(em
On
.IR UNIX \(rg
systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of the Network Services
Library,
.BR libnsl.so ;
however,
.B Linux
already has a library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these
components), and, therefore,
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
renames the library to
.BR libxnsl.so .
This means that both the
.B -lnsl
and
.B -lxnsl
flags must be provided on the
.B cc
command line.
.PP
See
.BR libxnsl (3)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The network configuration subroutines first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
These subroutines are related to the
.IR UNIX \(rg
.BR STREAMS (9)
implementation of network transport providers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
