'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH NETDIR 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B netdir, netdir_getbyaddr, netdir_getbyname, netdir_options, taddr2uaddr, uaddr2taddr, netdir_free, netdir_perror, netdir_sperror
\- Network Directory service subroutines.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <netconfig.h>
.HP 12
.BI "int netdir_getbyname(struct netconfig *" config ", struct nd_hostserv *" service ", struct nd_addrlist **" addrs );
.HP
.BI "int netdir_getbyaddr(struct netconfig *" config ", struct nd_hostservlist **" services ", struct netbuf *" addr );
.HP
.BI "int netdir_options(struct netconfig *" config ", int " option ", int " fd ", char *" point_to_args ");
.HP
.BI "char *taddr2uaddr(struct netconfig *" config ", struct netbuf *" addr );
.HP
.BI "struct netbuf *uaddr2taddr(struct netconfig *" config ", struct netbuf *" addr );
.HP
.BI "void netdir_free(void *" ptr ", int " struct_type );
.HP
.BI "void netdir_perror(char *" msg );
.HP
.BI "char *netdir_sperror(void);"
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP \w'\fIpoint_to_args\fR\(em'u
.I config
A pointer to a
.B netconfig
structure describing the network transport provider returned by
.BR getnetconfig (3)
or
.BR getnetpath (3).
.TP
.I service
A pointer to a
.B nd_hostserv
structure describing the name of a host service.
.TP
.I services
A pointer to a
.B nd_hostservlist
array describing the name(s) of a host service.
.TP
.I addr
A pointer to a
.B netbuf
structure containing a transport or universal address.
.TP
.I option
The name of a universal network option.  It can have values
.sp
.RS
.TP \w'\fBND_CHECK_RESERVEDPORT\fR\(em'u
.B ND_SET_BROADCAST
Set a broadcast address.
.PD 0
.TP
.B ND_CLEAR_BROADCAST
Clear broadcast capabilities.
.TP
.B ND_SET_REUSEADDR
Set transport provider to allow reuse of local addresses.
.TP
.B ND_CLEAR_REUSEADDR
Clear local address reuse capabilies.
.TP
.B ND_SET_RESERVEDPORT
Set a reserved port.
.TP
.B ND_CHECK_RESERVEDPORT
Check for a reserved port.
.TP
.B ND_MERGEADDR
Merge server and client addresses.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I fd
A file descriptor associated with a transport endpoint of the type associated with the
.I config
.B netconfig
structure.
.TP
.I point_to_args
A pointer to the argument values associated with
.IR option .
.TP
.I ptr
A pointer to a structure to free.
.TP
.I struct_type
The structure type to free.  This argument can have values:
.sp
.RS
.TP \w'\fBND_HOSTSERVLIST\fR\(em'u
.B ND_ADDR
struct
.B netbuf
.PD 0
.TP
.B ND_ADDRLIST
struct
.B nd_addrlist
.TP
.B ND_HOSTSERV
struct
.B nd_hostserv
.TP
.B ND_HOSTSERVLIST
struct
.B nd_hostservlist
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I msg
A pointer to a string to prefix to the printed error message (followed by a colon).
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.PP
.IR UNIX \(rg
has traditionally provided three components of the Network Services Library,
.BR libnsl (3),
that are associated with Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9)
network pseudo-device drivers, and that are not currently part of the
.B Linux
Network Services Library.  These components are:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
Network Configuration database access, see
.BR netconfig (3).
.PD 0
.IP 2.
Network Directory and address mapping, see
.BR netdir (3).
.IP 3.
Network Path access, see
.BR netpath (3).
.PD
.PP
These are often refered to as the Network Selection facility of the Network
Services Library.
.\"
.\"
.SS "DATABASE FORMAT"
.PP
The
.BR netconfig
structure is defined in
.BR netconfig (3)
and
.BR netconfig (5).
.\"
.\"
.SS "STRUCTURE FORMAT"
.PP
The
.B netbuf
structure is defined in
.RB < xti.h >
and is structured as follows:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct netbuf {
    unsigned int maxlen;
    unsigned int len;
    char *buf;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIh_hostservs\fR\(em'u
.I maxlen
the maximum length of the supplied buffer,
.IR buf .
.PD 0
.TP
.I len
the length of the filled buffer,
.IR buf .
.TP
.I buf
a pointer to the buffer.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.B nd_addrlist
structure is defined in
.RB < netconfig.h >
and is structured as follows:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct nd_addrlist {
    int n_cnt;               /* number of addresses */
    struct netbuf *n_addrs;  /* the addresses (array) */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIh_hostservs\fR\(em'u
.I n_cnt
the number of addresses in the list.
.PD 0
.TP
.I n_addrs
a pointer to an array of
.B netbuf
structures forming the address list.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.B nd_hostserv
structure is defined in
.RB < netconfig.h >
and is structured as follows:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct nd_hostserv {
    char *h_name;  /* host name */
    char *h_serv;  /* service name */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIh_hostservs\fR\(em'u
.I h_name
the host (machine) name.
.PD 0
.TP
.I h_serv
the service name.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.B nd_hostservlist
structure is defined in
.RB < netconfig.h >
and is structured as follows:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct nd_hostservlist {
    int *h_cnt;  /* number of hostservs found */
    struct hostserv *h_hostservs;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIh_hostservs\fR\(em'u
.I h_cnt
the number of services in the list.
.PD 0
.TP
.I h_hostservs
a pointer to an array of
.B nd_hostserv
structures forming the service list.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR netdir_perror ()
and
.BR netdir_sperror ()
must be called immediately after the failed network configuration subroutine fails.  Otherwise, the
error condition may be lost.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.BR netdir_getbyname "(), " netdir_getbyaddr "() and " netdir_options ()
return 0.  Otherwise, -1 is
returned and
.IR h_errno (3)
is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ERROR HANDLING"
.PP
When an error occurs, an error message can be printed to standard error or retrieved using
.BR netdir_perror ()
or
.BR netdir_sperror ().
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The
.BR xxx ()
function will fail if:
.TP
.RB [ ND_ACCESS ]
The user did not have sufficient privilege to use the specified address.
.TP
.RB [ ND_BADARG ]
Invalid argument.
.TP
.RB [ ND_FAILCTRL ]
Control operation failed.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NO_ADDRESS ]
Invalid address format.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOCONVERT ]
Conversion error.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOCTRL ]
Function invoked out of sequence or incorrect option specified.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NO_DATA ]
Incorrect amount of data.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOHOST ]
Host not found.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOMEM ]
Insufficient memory.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NO_RECOVERY ]
Unrecoverable error.
.TP
.RB [ ND_OPEN ]
File could not be opened.
.TP
.RB [ ND_SYSTEM ]
Fault detected.
.TP
.RB [ ND_TRY_AGAIN ]
Try again later.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOSERV ]
Service not found.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOSYM ]
Symbol not found.
.TP
.RB [ ND_UNKWN ]
Unknown object.
.TP
.RB [ ND_OK ]
Success.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See
.BR netconfig (5).
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libnsl2.so
The Network Services Library 2 shared object library.
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libnsl2.a
The Network Services Library 2 static library.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR netconfig (5),
.BR netconfig (3),
.BR netpath (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR netdir_getbyaddr "(), " netdir_getbyname "(), " netdir_options "(), " taddr2uaddr "(), " uaddr2taddr "(), " netdir_free "(), " netdir_perror "() and " netdir_sperror ()
have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
These network configuraiton subroutines are compatible with
.I SVR4
.[
svr4
.]
and systems based on
.IR SVR4 ,
.[
svr4
.]
including
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
describe the
.BR nc_sperror ()
subroutine as returning a pointer to thread-specific data and that the buffer
could change at any point.  While the error value is saved as thread-specific
data, this implementation of
.BR nc_sperror ()
returns a pointer to a shared read-only string that is valid for the duration
of the calling process.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
does not document the
.BR ND_CLEAR_BROADCAST ", " ND_SET_REUSEADDR " nor " ND_CLEAR_REUSEADDR
options to
.BR netdir_options ().
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
does.
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documents
.[
uw7doc
.]
that
.B _nderror
contains the cause of failure and that
.BR t_errno (3)
may provide some additional insights into why a call failed.
.IP ""
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
stores the error condition in
.IR h_errno (3).
.IP \(em
Diagnostic message strings are not documented and are incompatible.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility would only be coincidental.
.IP \(em
On
.IR UNIX \(rg
systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of the Network Services
Library,
.BR libnsl (3);
however,
.B Linux
already has a library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these
components), and, therefore,
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
renames the library to
.BR libnsl2.so .
.PP
See
.BR libnsl (3)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
.IR SVR4 .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The network configuration subroutines first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
These subroutines are related to the
.IR UNIX \(rg
.BR STREAMS (9)
implementation of network transport providers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
