'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: send.3.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/05/14 08:28:23 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/14 08:28:23 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH SEND 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B send
\- send a message on a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.HP
.BI "ssize_t send(int " socket ", const void *" buffer ", size_t " length ", int " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.TP
.I socket
Specifies the socket file descriptor.
.TP
.I buffer
Points to the buffer containing the message to send.
.TP
.I length
Specifies the length of the message in bytes.
.TP
.I flags
Specifies the type of message transmission. Values of this argument are formed
by logically OR'ing zero or more of the following flags:
.RS
.TP
.B MSG_EOR
Terminates a record (if supported by the protocol)
.TP
.B MSG_OOB
Sends out-of-band data on sockets that support out-of-band communications. The
significance and semantics of out-of-band data are protocol-specific.
.RE
.PP
The
.BR send ()
function initiates transmission of a message from the specified
socket to its peer. The
.BR send ()
function sends a message only when the socket
is connected (including when the peer of a connectionless socket has been set
via
.BR connect (3)).
.PP
The length of the message to be sent is specified by the
.I length
argument. If
the message is too long to pass through the underlying protocol,
.BR send ()
fails
and no data is transmitted.
.PP
Successful completion of a call to
.BR send ()
does not guarantee delivery of the
message. A return value of -1 indicates only locally-detected errors.
.PP
If space is not available at the sending socket to hold the message to be
transmitted and the socket file descriptor does not have
.B O_NONBLOCK
set,
.BR send ()
blocks until space is available. If space is not available at the
sending socket to hold the message to be transmitted and the socket file
descriptor does have
.B O_NONBLOCK
set,
.BR send ()
will fail. The
.BR select (2)
and
.BR poll (2)
functions can be used to determine when it is possible to send more
data.
.PP
The socket in use may require the process to have appropriate privileges to
use the
.BR send ()
function.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The
.BR send ()
function is identical to
.BR sendto (3)
with a null pointer dest_len
argument, and to
.BR write (2)
if no
.I flags
are used.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
This system call is implemented as a
.B SIOCSOCKSYS
IOCTL.  See
.BR socksys (4)
for more information.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
This system call is implemented as a
.B SIOCSOCKSYS
IOCTL.  See
.BR socksys (4)
for more information.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.BR send ()
returns the number of bytes sent.
Otherwise, -1 is returned and errno is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The
.BR send ()
function will fail if:
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN "] or [" EWOULDBLOCK ]
The socket's file descriptor is marked
.B O_NONBLOCK
and the
requested operation would block.
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
The
.I socket
argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ ECONNRESET ]
A connection was forcibly closed by a peer.
.TP
.RB [ EDESTADDRREQ ]
The socket is not connection-mode and no peer address is set.
.TP
.RB [ EFAULT ]
The
.I buffer
parameter can not be accessed.
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
A signal interrupted
.BR send ()
before any data was transmitted.
.TP
.RB [ EMSGSIZE ]
The message is too large be sent all at once, as the socket
requires.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTCONN ]
The socket is not connected or otherwise has not had the peer
prespecified.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTSOCK ]
The
.I socket
argument does not refer to a socket.
.TP
.RB [ EOPNOTSUPP ]
The
.I socket
argument is associated with a socket that does not
support one or more of the values set in
.IR flags .
.TP
.RB [ EPIPE ]
The socket is shut down for writing, or the socket is
connection-mode and is no longer connected. In the latter case,
and if the socket is of type
.BR SOCK_STREAM ,
the
.B SIGPIPE
signal is
generated to the calling process.
.PP
The
.BR send ()
function may fail if:
.TP
.RB [ EACCES ]
The calling process does not have the appropriate privileges.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file
system.
.TP
.RB [ ENETDOWN ]
The local interface used to reach the destination is down.
.TP
.RB [ ENETUNREACH ]
No route to the network is present.
.TP
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform
the operation.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
There were insufficient
.IR STREAMS (4)
resources available for the
operation to complete.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR connect (3),
.BR getsockopt (3),
.BR poll (2),
.BR recv (3),
.BR recvfrom (3),
.BR recvmsg (3),
.BR select (2),
.BR sendmsg (3),
.BR sendto (3),
.BR setsockopt (3),
.BR shutdown (3),
.BR socket (3),
.BR <sys/socket.h> (5).
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
The Open Group XNS Issue 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
