'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH SETNETPATH 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B setnetpath
\- bind to or rewind NETPATH database
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <netconfig.h>
.HP
.BI "void *setnetpath(void);"
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.IR UNIX \(rg
has traditionally provided three components of the Network Services Library,
.BR libnsl ,
that are associated with Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9)
network pseudo-device drivers, and that are not currently part of the
.B Linux
Network Services Library.  These components are:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
Network Configuration database access, see
.BR netconfig (3).
.PD 0
.IP 2.
Network Directory and address mapping, see
.BR netdir (3).
.IP 3.
Network Path access, see
.BR netpath (3).
.PD
.PP
These are often refered to as the Network Selection facility of the Network
Services Library.
.PP
.BR setnetpath "(), " getnetpath "(3) and " endnetpath (3)
provide a mechanism to sequentialy access entries in the Network Configuration database that
correspond to entries in the
.RB { NETPATH }
environment variable.  That is, the
.RB { NETPATH }
environment variable acts as a filter specification that filters network identifiers.
.PP
.BR setnetpath ()
returns a pointer to an opaque datastructure used as a handle to the
.BR getnetpath (3)
subroutine.
.BR setnetpath ()
is used to initialize client access to the database entries and set the access point to the first
valid entry in the
.RB { NETPATH }
environment variable.  If the
.RB { NETPATH }
environment variable is not set, all of the entries in the
.BR netconfig (5)
database that are marked
.RI \(lq visible \(rq
will be used instead.
.PP
.BR nc_perror (3)
and
.BR nc_sperror (3)
provide a mechanism for providing diagnostic messages upon failure.  These subroutines are used for
both
.BR netconfig (3)
subroutines as well as the
.B netpath
subroutines described here.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.BR setnetpath ()
returns an opaque pointer for use in the
.BR getnetpath ()
call.  Otherwise,
.B NULL
is returned and
.IR nc_error (3)
is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR setnetpath ()
fails, it returns
.B NULL
and sets
.IR nc_error (3)
to one of the following error numbers:
.TP \w'[\fBNC_NOMOREENTRIES\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ NC_NOERROR ]
.RI \(lq "no error" \(rq
.IP
The last network selection function called was successful or no network selection function has yet
been called.
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOMEM ]
.RI \(lq "out of memory" \(rq
.IP
There was not sufficient memory for the last network selection function called to complete.
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOSET ]
.RI \(lq "routine called before calling setnetpath() or setnetconfig()" \(rq
.IP
The last call to
.BR endnetpath ()
or
.BR getnetpath (3)
was called (incorrectly) before calling
.BR setnetpath (3).
.TP
.RB [ NC_OPENFAIL ]
.RI \(lq "cannot open /etc/netconfig" \(rq
.IP
The last call to a network selection function,
.BR setnetpath (3),
could not open the
.B /etc/netconfig
file.
.TP
.RB [ NC_BADLINE ]
.RI \(lq "error in /etc/netconfig : field %d of line %d" \(rq
.IP
The last call to a network selection function detected a syntax error in the
.B /etc/netconfig
file at field
.I %d
of line
.IR %d .
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOTFOUND ]
.RI \(lq "netid not found in /etc/netconfig" \(rq
.IP
The
.I netid
argument to the last call to
.BR getnetconfigent (3)
was not found in
.BR /etc/netconfig .
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOMOREENTRIES ]
.RI \(lq "no more entries in /etc/netconfig" \(rq
.IP
The last call to network selection function
.BR getnetpath (3)
exhausted the entries in the
.B /etc/netconfig
file.
.TP
.RB [ ??? ]
.RI \(lq "unknown error" \(rq
.IP
An internal error occured in the
.BR libxnsl (3)
library.
.PP
An error string associated with the error number can be obtained using
.BR nc_sperror (3)
or printed to standard error with
.BR nc_perror (3).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See
.BR netconfig (5).
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.so
The X/Open Network Services Library shared object library.
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.a
The X/Open Network Services Library static library.
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP
.RB { NETPATH }
This environment variable contains the network path.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR getnetpath (3),
.BR endnetpath (3),
.BR environ (5),
.BR netconfig (5),
.BR netconfig (3),
.BR nc_perror (3),
.BR nc_sperror (3),
.BR netdir (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR setnetpath (),
.BR getnetpath "() and "
.BR endnetpath ()
had no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR setnetpath ()
is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
describe the
.BR nc_sperror ()
subroutine as returning a pointer to thread-specific data and that the buffer
could change at any point.  While the error value is saved as thread-specific
data, this implementation of
.BR nc_sperror ()
returns a pointer to a shared read-only string that is valid for the duration
of the calling process.
.IP \(em
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
stores the error condition in
.IR nc_error (3).
.IP \(em
Diagnostic message strings are not documented and are incompatible.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility would only be coincidental.
.IP \(em
On
.IR UNIX \(rg
systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of the Network Services
Library,
.BR libnsl ;
however,
.B Linux
already has a library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these
components), and, therefore,
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
renames the library to
.BR libxnsl (3).
.PP
See
.BR libxnsl (3)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR setnetpath ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
These subroutines are related to the
.IR UNIX \(rg
.BR STREAMS (9)
implementation of network transport providers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
