'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_addleaf.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/05/16 02:35:36 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/05/16 02:35:36 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_ADDLEAF 3 "$Date: 2004/05/16 02:35:36 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library"
.SH NAME
.B t_addleaf
\- add a point to a point to multipoint connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_addleaf(int " fd ", int " leafid ", struct netbuf *" addr );
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport endpoint to which to add a leaf.
.TP
.I leafid
the identifier for the leaf.
.TP
.I addr
a pointer to a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure containing the address of the leaf.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Requests that an endpoint be added to a point to multipoint connection.
.PP
.I fd
is the file descriptor of the local transport endpoint.
.PP
.I leafid
is a transport user assigned integer value which will be used to identify the
point added to the point to multipoint connection in subsequent interactions
with the transport user.
.PP
.I addr
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure specifying on call the address of the local point being added to the
point to multipoint connection.
No information is returned in
.IR addr .
.I addr->maxlen
is ignored by the call.
.I add->len
is the length of the address.  If
.I add->len
is zero, it indicates that no address is provided.
.I add->buf
is a pointer to the user buffer containing the address.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR t_addleaf ()
is only valid in the
.B T_DATAXFER
state.
.PP
.BR t_addleaf ()
is only valid for transport service providers of service type
.BR T_COTS " or " T_COTS_ORD
that support point to multipoint connection management.
.PP
In synchronous mode,
.BR t_addleaf ()
blocks until a leaf change confirmation is received.
In asynchronous mode where no leaf change confirmation is immediately
avaialble,
.BR t_addleaf ()
fails, returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNODATA ].
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_addleaf ()
returns zero (0) and confirms the addition of the requested leaf.
Upon failure,
.BR t_addleaf ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_addleaf ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TADDRBUSY ]
The address specificed was already in use by another transport endpoint.
.TP
.RB [ TBADADDR ]
The address specified was of an invalid format or contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ TLOOK ]
An asynchronous event occured before the call could complete.  See \fBt_look\fR(3) for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TNOADDR ]
An address was not specified and the transport provider could not assign one.
.TP
.RB [ TNODATA ]
An attempt was made to read the add leaf confirmation but no add leaf confirmation was available.
.TP
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
The call requires the use of a TLI primitive not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The call was issued with the interface in an incorrect state.
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A \fBLinux\fR system error occured and the \fBLinux\fR error number is set in \fIerrno\fR(3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR netbuf (3),
.BR t_rcvleafchange (3),
.BR t_removeleaf (3).
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
