'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_alloc.3.man,v 0.9.2.10 2008-04-28 18:38:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 18:38:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: t_alloc.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2008-04-28 18:38:30  brian
.\" - header updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2008-04-25 08:59:00  brian
.\" - updated references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/09/18 01:26:03  brian
.\" - updated manpages and macros
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/05 09:44:44  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_ALLOC 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B t_alloc
\- allocate a library structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "void *t_alloc(int " fd ", int " type ", int " fields );
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport endpoint against which to allocate the structure.
.TP
.I type
the type of structure to allocate.
.TP
.I fields
the
.BR netbuf (3)
fields to populate and for which to allocate buffers.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_alloc ()
allocates the specified XTI/TLI
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.[
xns 5.2
.]
structure
.I type
and initializes requested
.BR netbuf (3)
parameter
.I fields
in the structure.
.PP
.I fd
specifies the local endpoint for which to allocate structures.  The local
endpoint is necessary because the sizes of
.BR netbuf (3)
fields is determined by the protocol limits returned in the
.B t_info
structure from calls to
.BR t_open "(3) or " t_getinfo (3).
.PP
.I type
specifies the type of XTI/TLI
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.[
xns 5.2
.]
structure to allocate, and may be one of the
following:
.TP \w'T_UNITDATA\(em'u
.B T_BIND
specifies the
.B t_bind
structure.
.PD 0
.TP
.B T_OPTMGMT
specifies the
.B t_optmgmt
structure.
.TP
.B T_CALL
specifies the
.B t_call
structure.
.TP
.B T_DIS
specifies the
.B t_discon
structure.
.TP
.B T_UNITDATA
specifies the
.B t_unitdata
structure.
.TP
.B T_UDERROR
specifies the
.B t_uderr
structure.
.TP
.B T_INFO
specifies the
.B t_info
structure.
.PD
.PP
.I fields
specifies which
.BR netbuf (3)
parameters to initialize with buffers in addition to allocating the structure.
The size of the buffer is gleened by
.BR t_alloc ()
from protocol sizing information associated with the local transport endpoint
.IR fd .
.I fields
is a bitwise OR of zero or more of the following flags:
.TP \w'T_UNITDATA\(em'u
.B T_ADDR
allocate and initialize the
.I addr
.BR netbuf (3)
structure and buffer.
.TP
.B T_OPT
allocate and initialize the
.I opt
.BR netbuf (3)
structure and buffer.
.TP
.B T_UDATA
allocate and initialize the
.I udata
.BR netbuf (3)
structure and buffer.
.TP
.B T_ALL
allocate and initialize all relevant
.BR netbuf (3)
structures and buffers.
.PP
The
.BR netbuf (3)
parameters in the allocated structure that have their corresponding flag set
will have their
.I buf
fields set to the allocated buffer, their
.I maxlen
fields set to the length of the allocated buffer, and their
.I len
fields set to zero (0).  (The caller must sent the
.I len
fields appropriately after placing contents into the buffer, but not in excess
of
.IR maxlen .)
.PP
The
.BR netbuf (3)
parameters in the allocated structure that do not have the corresponding flag
set,
which have a length of zero (0) in the information structure returned by
.BR t_getinfo (3),
or which have a length of
.B T_INVALID
in the information structure returned by
.BR t_getinfo (3)
and
.I fields
is set to
.BR T_ALL ,
will have their
.I buf
fields set to
.BR NULL ,
and their
.IR maxlen " and " len
fields set to zero.
.PP
If a field with its flag set has a length of
.B T_INVALID
in the information structure returned by
.BR t_getinfo (3)
and
.B T_ALL
was not specified for
.IR fields ,
.BR t_alloc ()
will fail with error
.RB [ EINVAL ].
.PP
Any flag positions in the
.I fields
argument not relevant to the structure type in the
.I type
argument will be ignored.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_alloc ()
returns a
.BR "" non- NULL
pointer to the allocated structure.
Upon failure,
.BR t_alloc ()
returns
.B NULL
and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_alloc ()
fails, it returns
.B NULL
and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TNOSTRUCTYPE ]
The argument \fItype\fR was not a valid or supported structure type, or was
not an appropriate structure type for the service type of the transport
endpoint.
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A \fBLinux\fR system error occured and the \fBLinux\fR error number is set in \fIerrno\fR(3).
This occurs in the following situations:
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
Memory could not be allocated for the structure or a buffer in the structure.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fields
was specified (i.e. not set to
.BR T_ALL )
and at least one of the specified fields was of size
.B T_INVALID
in the information structure (see
.BR t_getinfo (3)).
.SH NOTICES
.PP
If a field with its flag set has a length of
.B T_INFINITE
in the information structure returned by
.BR t_getinfo (3),
or if the length is greater that an internal maximum size,
.BR t_alloc ()
will only allocate the internal maximum size.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR t_getinfo (3),
.BR t_free (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR t_alloc ()
has no known bugs.
.BR t_alloc ()
has been tested with the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
conformance test suites.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The XTI/TLI library functions are compatible with 
SVR4.2,
.[
svr42
.]
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns 5.2
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
Compatibility is tested using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns 5.2
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B t_alloc
first appeared in SVR4.2.
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for the OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
