'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_errno.3.man,v 0.9.2.7 2006/04/05 09:44:44 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:44 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: t_errno.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/05 09:44:44  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_ERRNO 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B t_errno
\- TLI error number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.B "extern int t_errno;"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
.TP
.I t_errno
the XTI/TLI error number.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I t_errno
contains the last error generated by an XTI/TLI Library call when an XTI/TLI Library
call fails.  (Note: not all XTI/TLI Library calls can fail.)
.PP
If an XTI/TLI Library call succeeds, there is no guarantee that
.I t_errno
will contain the same value as before the call, even though the XTI/TLI Library
call succeeded.  (One exception to this is
.BR t_sysconf (3)).
.PP
Following are the error number reported and their error strings:
.HP 12
.RB [ TBADADDR ]
\-
.I \(lqBad address format\(rq
.br
The address specified was of an invalid format or contained invalid information.
This error may be returned directly from the TLI provider.

.HP 12
.RB [ TBADOPT ]
\-
.I \(lqBad options format\(rq
.br
The options provided in a
.BR t_connect (3),
.BR t_accept (3),
.BR t_optmgmt (3),
.BR t_sndudata "(3) or "
.BR t_sndvudata (3)
were of an invalid format or contained invalid information.
This error may be returned directly from the TLI provider.
See
.BR t_optmgmt (3)
for more information on option formats.

.HP 12
.RB [ TACCES ]
\-
.I \(lqBad permissions\(rq
.br
The caller did not have permissions to use the address provided in a
.BR t_bind "(3) or " t_connect (3)
call.
The caller did not have permissions for the stream specified to a
.BR t_accept (3)
call.
This error may be returned directly from the TLI provider.

.HP 12
.RB [ TBADF ]
\-
.I \(lqBad file descriptor\(rq
.br
.I fd
is invalid.
The
.I resfd
file descriptor provide in a
.BR t_accept (3)
call was invalid.
This error may be returned directly from the TLI provider.

.HP 12
.RB [ TNOADDR ]
\-
.I \(lqUnable to allocate an address\(rq
.br
No address was provided in a
.BR t_bind (3)
call, and the provider could not allocate an address.
This error may be returned directly from the TLI provider.

.HP 12
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
\-
.I \(lqWould place interface out of state\(rq
.br
The call was issued with the interface in an incorrect state.
The XTI/TLI library call was invalid for the state of the interface.
This error may be returned directly from the TLI provider.

.HP 12
.RB [ TBADSEQ ]
\-
.I \(lqBad call sequence number\(rq
.br
The
.I sequence
number provided in a
.BR t_accept "(3) or "
.BR t_snddis (3)
call was invalid, or is not associated with an outstanding connection indication.
This error may be returned directly from the TLI provider.

.HP 12
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
\-
.I \(lqSystem error\(rq
.br
A \fBLinux\fR system error occured and the \fBLinux\fR error number is set in \fIerrno\fR(3).
This error may be returned directly from the TLI provider.

.HP 12
.RB [ TLOOK ]
\-
.I \(lqHas to t_look() for event\(rq
.br
An asynchronous event occured before the call could complete.  See \fBt_look\fR(3) for more information.
This error applies to XTI/TLI only and is not generated by TPI.

.HP 12
.RB [ TBADDATA ]
\-
.I \(lqBad amount of data\(rq
.br
The amount of data specified for the call and underlying transport service
provider was invalid (i.e. was outside the protocol limits).  See
\fBt_getinfo\fR(3) and \fBt_open\fR(3) for more information.
This error may be returned directly from the TLI provider.

.HP 12
.RB [ TBUFOVFLW ]
\-
.I \(lqBuffer was too small\(rq
.br
The \fImaxlen\fR field of a \fBnetbuf\fR(3) structure passed to the call was
non-zero, but insufficient to hold the available opaque information.  See,
\fBnetbuf\fR(3) for more information.
This error applies to XTI/TLI only and is not generated by TPI.

.HP 12
.RB [ TFLOW ]
\-
.I \(lqWould block due to flow control\(rq
.br
The call would block due to flow control.
This error applies to XTI/TLI only and is not generated by TPI.

.HP 12
.RB [ TNODATA ]
\-
.I \(lqNo data indication\(rq
.br
An attempt was made to read data and no data indication was available.
This error applies to XTI/TLI only and is not generated by TPI.

.HP 12
.RB [ TNODIS ]
\-
.I \(lqNo disconnect indication\(rq
.br
An attempt was made to read a disconnect and no disconnect indication was available.
This error applies to XTI/TLI only and is not generated by TPI.

.HP 12
.RB [ TNOUDERR ]
\-
.I \(lqNo unitdata error indication\(rq
.br
An attempt was made to read a unitdata error and no unitdata error indication was available.
This error applies to XTI/TLI only and is not generated by TPI.

.HP 12
.RB [ TBADFLAG ]
\-
.I \(lqBad flags\(rq
.br
The options flags provided to a
.BR t_optmgmt (3),
open flags provided to a
.BR t_open (3),
message flags provided to a
.BR t_snd "(3) or " t_sndv (3),
or the flags provided to a
.BR t_sysconf (3)
call were invalid.
This error may be returned directly from the TLI provider.

.HP 12
.RB [ TNOREL ]
\-
.I \(lqNo orderly release indication\(rq
.br
An attempt was made to read an orderly release and no orderly release indication was available.
This error applies to XTI/TLI only and is not generated by TPI.

.HP 12
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
\-
.I \(lqNot supported\(rq
.br
The call requires the use of a TLI primitive not supported by the underlying transport provider.
This error may be returned directly from the TLI provider.

.HP 12
.RB [ TSTATECHNG ]
\-
.I \(lqState is currently changing\(rq
.br
The interface is in a transient state.
This error applies to XTI/TLI only and is not generated by TPI.

.HP 12
.RB [ TNOSTRUCTYPE ]
\-
.I \(lqStructure type not supported\(rq
.br
The argument \fItype\fR was not a valid or supported structure type.
This error applies to XTI/TLI only and is not generated by TPI.

.HP 12
.RB [ TBADNAME ]
\-
.I \(lqBad transport provider name\(rq
.br
The transport provider name (\fIpath\fR to the device) is invalid.
This error applies to XTI/TLI only and is not generated by TPI.

.HP 12
.RB [ TBADQLEN ]
\-
.I \(lqListener queue length limit is zero\(rq
.br
The stream associated with
.I fd
was bound with a
.I qlen
of zero and is not a listening stream.
See
.BR t_bind (3).
This error applies to XTI/TLI only and is not generated by TPI.

.HP 12
.RB [ TADDRBUSY ]
\-
.I \(lqAddress already in use\(rq
.br
The address provided to a
.BR t_addleaf (3),
.BR t_bind "(3) or "
.BR t_connect (3)
call is already in use.
This error may be returned directly from the TLI provider.

.HP 12
.RB [ TINDOUT ]
\-
.I \(lqOutstanding connect indications\(rq
.br
The file descriptor
.I resfd
has oustanding connection indications during a call to
.BR t_accept (3)
with
.IR fd " == " resfd .
This error applies to XTI/TLI only and is not generated by TPI.

.HP 12
.RB [ TPROVMISMATCH ]
\-
.I \(lqNot same transport provider\(rq
.br
The transport provider associated with the
.I resfd
file descriptor in a call to
.BR t_accept (3)
is not the same transport provider as that from which the connection
indication was given.
This error may be returned directly from the TLI provider.

.HP 12
.RB [ TRESQLEN ]
\-
.I \(lqConnection acceptor has qlen > 0\(rq
.br
The stream associated with the
.I resfd
file descriptor in a call to
.BR t_accept (3)
was bound as a listening stream.
This error may be returned directly from the TLI provider.

.HP 12
.RB [ TRESADDR ]
\-
.I \(lqConn. acceptor bound to different address\(rq
.br
The stream associated with the
.I resfd
file descriptor in a call to
.BR t_accept (3)
is bound to a different address than is associated with the connection
indication.
This error may be returned directly from the TLI provider.

.HP 12
.RB [ TQFULL ]
\-
.I \(lqConnection indicator queue is full\(rq
.br
No more outstanding connection indications can be received on
.IR fd .
The current backlog of outstanding connection indications must be reduced with
a call to
.BR t_accept "(3) or " t_sndis (3)
before any more calls to
.BR t_listen (3)
can be made.
This error applies to XTI/TLI only and is not generated by TPI.

.HP 12
.RB [ TPROTO ]
\-
.I \(lqProtocol error\(rq
.br
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
This error applies to XTI/TLI only and is not generated by TPI.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR t_error (3),
.BR t_strerror (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.B t_errno
has no known bugs.
.B t_errno
has been tested for the described behavior using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
conformance test suites.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The XTI/TLI library functions are compatible with 
SVR4.2,
.[
svr42
.]
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
Compatibility is tested using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B t_errno
first appeared in SVR4.2.
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for the OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
