'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_free.3.man,v 0.9.2.10 2008-04-25 08:59:00 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-25 08:59:00 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: t_free.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2008-04-25 08:59:00  brian
.\" - updated references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/10/10 10:49:20  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/09/18 01:26:03  brian
.\" - updated manpages and macros
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/05 09:44:44  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_FREE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B t_free
\- free an XTI/TLI library structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_free(void *" ptr ", int " type );
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I ptr
a pointer to the structure to free.
.TP
.I type
the type of the structure pointed to.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_free ()
frees an XTI/TLI structure that was allocated with the
.BR t_alloc (3)
call or allocated using
.BR malloc (3).
.PP
.I ptr
is a pointer to a structure that was allocated with
.BR t_alloc "(3) or " malloc (3).
.PP
.I type
is the structure type to deallocated, and may be one of the following:
.TP
.B T_BIND
specifies the
.B t_bind
structure.
.TP
.B T_OPTMGMT
specifies the
.B t_optmgmt
structure.
.TP
.B T_CALL
specifies the
.B t_call
structure.
.TP
.B T_DIS
specifies the
.B t_discon
structure.
.TP
.B T_UNITDATA
specifies the
.B t_unitdata
structure.
.TP
.B T_UDERROR
specifies the
.B t_uderr
structure.
.TP
.B T_INFO
specifies the
.B t_info
structure.
.PP
In addition to freeing the structure,
.BR t_free ()
will free any buffers still attached to
.BR netbuf (3)
parameters within the structure.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_free ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR t_free ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_free ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TNOSTRUCTYPE ]
The argument \fItype\fR was not a valid or supported structure type.
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A \fBLinux\fR system error occured and the \fBLinux\fR error number is set in \fIerrno\fR(3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR t_alloc (3),
.BR malloc (3),
.BR netbuf (3),
.IR t_errno (3),
.IR errno (3),
.BR test-xnet (8),
.BR test-xnet_thr (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR t_free ()
has no known bugs.
.BR t_free ()
has been tested for the described behavior using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
conformance test suites.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The XTI/TLI library functions are compatible with 
SVR4.2,
.[
svr42
.]
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns 5.2
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
Compatibility is tested using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns 5.2
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B t_free
first appeared in SVR4.2.
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for the OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
