'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_listen.3.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:07 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:07 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_LISTEN 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B t_listen
\- listen for a transport connection request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_listen(int " fd ", struct t_call *" call );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport endpoint upon which to listen.
.TP
.I call
a pointer to a
.B t_call
structure to contain returned information about a connection indication.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_listen ()
listens for connection indications on the local transport endpoint specified
by
.IR fd .
.PP
.I fd
specifies the local transport endpoint.
.PP
.I call
is a
.B t_call
strucutre that returns the calling endpoint's transport address, options and
connection data, and transport provider's sequence number associated with the
connection indication.
.PP
The
.B t_call
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_call {
        struct netbuf addr;             /* address */
        struct netbuf opt;              /* options */
        struct netbuf udata;            /* user data */
        int sequence;                   /* sequence number */
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
The
.B t_call
structure has the following members:
.TP
.I addr
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure that returns the calling endpoint's address if the
user specified a non-zero
.I call->addr.maxlen
on call.
.I call->addr.len
will return the length of the calling endpoint's address if any, returned in
.IR call->addr.buf .
.TP
.I opt
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure that returns the calling endpoint's options if the user specified a
non-zero
.I call->opt.maxlen
on call.
.I call->opt.len
will return the length of the calling endpoint's options if any, returned in
.IR call->opt.buf .
.TP
.I udata
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure that returns the calling endpoint's connection data if the user
specified a non-zero
.I call->udata.maxlen
on call.
.I call->udlata.len
will return the length of the calling endpoint's connection data if any,
returned in
.IR call->udata.buf .
.TP
.I sequence
returns a sequence number assigned by the transport provider and associated
with the connection indication.  This sequence number uniquely identifies the
connection indication to the transport provider and must be used in a call to
.BR t_accept "(3) or " t_snddis (3)
to identify the connection indication that is accepted or refused.
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR t_listen ()
is only valid in state
.B T_IDLE .
.PP
In synchronous mode,
.BR t_listen ()
blocks an waits for a connection indication, signal or error.
In asynchronous mode (where
.BR O_NONBLOCK " or " O_NDELAY
has been set with
.BR t_open "(3) or " fcntl (2)),
and no connection indication is immediately available,
.BR t_listen ()
will return -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.BR TNODATA .
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_listen ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR t_listen ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_listen ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TBADQLEN ]
The stream associated with
.I fd
was bound with a
.I qlen
of zero and is not a listening stream.
See
.BR t_bind (3).
.TP
.RB [ TBUFOVFLW ]
The \fImaxlen\fR field of a \fBnetbuf\fR(3) structure passed to the call was
non-zero, but insufficient to hold the available opaque information.  See,
\fBnetbuf\fR(3) for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TLOOK ]
An asynchronous event occured before the call could complete.  See \fBt_look\fR(3) for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TNODATA ]
An attempt was made to read data but no data indication was available.
.TP
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
The call requires the use of a TLI primitive not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The call was issued with the interface in an incorrect state.
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TQFULL ]
No more outstanding connection indications can be received on
.IR fd .
The current backlog of outstanding connection indications must be reduced with
a call to
.BR t_accept "(3) or " t_sndis (3)
before any more calls to
.BR t_listen ()
can be made.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A \fBLinux\fR system error occured and the \fBLinux\fR error number is set in \fIerrno\fR(3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR errno (3),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR netbuf (3),
.BR t_accept (3),
.BR t_bind (3),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_look (3),
.BR t_open (3),
.BR t_snddis (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR t_listen ()
has no known bugs.
.BR t_listen ()
has been tested for the described behavior using the
.I /usr/bin/test-xnet
conformance test program.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The XTI/TLI library functions are compatible with 
SVR4.2,
.[
svr42
.]
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B t_listen
first appeared in SVR4.2.
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for the OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
