'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_open.3.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:07 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:07 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_OPEN 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B t_open
\- open a transport endpoint
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int " fd " = t_open(char *" path ", int " oflag ", struct t_info *" info );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I path
a character string specifying the path to the device to open.
.TP
.I oflag
open flags.
.TP
.I info
a pointer to a
.B t_info
structure to contain returned information about the transport provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_open ()
opens a local transport endpoint and returns a file descriptor for use in
other XTI/TLI library calls as well as information about the transport provider
for the local transport endpoint.
.PP
.I path
is a
.B Linux
filesystem path to a STREAMS character special file that once opened will
provide the necessary capabilities to the XTI/TLI Library (TPI interface and
.BR timod (4)
module pushable).
.PP
.I oflag
are open flags, defined in
.BR open (2),
which are a bitwise OR of
.B O_RDWR
and any of the following flags:
.TP
.B O_RDWR
open the STREAMS character special file read-write.
XTI/TLI does not support or permit
.BR O_RDONLY " or " O_WRONLY
flags.
.TP
.BR O_NONBLOCK " or " O_NDELAY
specifies that the file is to be opened for asynchronous operation.  When
opened for asynchronous operation, XTI/TLI library calls, 
.BR t_addleaf (3),
.BR t_connect (3),
.BR t_listen (3),
.BR t_rcv (3),
.BR t_rcvconnect (3),
.BR t_rcvdis (3),
.BR t_rcvleafchange (3),
.BR t_rcvudata (3),
.BR t_rcvv (3),
.BR t_rcvv (3),
.BR t_rcvvudata (3),
.BR t_snd (3),
.BR t_sndrel (3),
.BR t_sndreldata (3),
.BR t_sndudata (3),
.BR t_sndv (3),
.BR t_sndvudata (3),
will not block and will fail, return -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.BR TNODATA ", " TNODIS " or " TFLOW
if they would have otherwise blocked.
.TP
.BR O_NOFOLLOW
tells
.BR t_open ()
not to follow symbolic links if
.I path
is a symbolic link to a STREAMS character special file.
.PP
The other
.BR open (2)
flags,
.BR O_RDONLY ,
.BR O_WRONLY ,
.BR O_CREAT ,
.BR O_NOCTTY ,
.BR O_TRUNC ,
.BR O_APPEND ,
.BR O_SYNC ,
.BR O_DIRECTORY ,
.BR O_LARGEFILE,
are not applicable to XTI/TLI STREAMS and should not be included.
.PP
.I info
is a pointer to a
.B t_info
structure that will return protocol information about the transport service
provider associated with the local transport endpoint.
The
.B t_info
contains the same information and follows the same rules as in the
.BR t_getinfo (3)
call.
The
.B t_info
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_info {
    t_scalar_t addr;
    t_scalar_t options;
    t_scalar_t tsdu;
    t_scalar_t etsdu;
    t_scalar_t connect;
    t_scalar_t discon;
    t_scalar_t servtype;
    t_scalar_t flags;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
The
.B t_info
structure contains the following members and protocol information:
.TP
.I addr
the maximum size of a transport endpoint address.  This can be used to
determine the
.I addr->maxlen
size when passing
.BR netbuf (3)
structures to XTI/TLI Library calls.
.TP
.I options
the maximum size of the options parameter.  This can be used to determine the
.I opt->maxlen
size when passing
.BR netbuf (3)
structures to XTI/TLI Library calls.
.TP
.I tsdu
the maximum size of the transport service data unit.  This can be used to
determine the
.I udata->maxlen
size when passing
.BR netbuf (3)
structures to XTI/TLI Library calls.
.TP
.I etsdu
the maximum size of the expedited transport service data unit.  This can be used to
determine the
.I udata->maxlen
size when passing
.BR netbuf (3)
structures to XTI/TLI Library calls.
.TP
.I connect
the maximum size of connection data.  This can be used to determine the
.I udata->maxlen
size when passing
.BR netbuf (3)
structures to
.BR t_connect "(3) or " t_accept (3).
.TP
.I discon
the maximum size of disconnection data.  This can be used to determine the
.I udata->maxlen
size when passing
.BR netbuf (3)
structures to
.BR t_snddis "(3) or " t_rcvdis (3),
or, when
.B T_ORDRELDATA
is set in
.IR flags ,
.BR t_sndreldata "(3) or" t_rcvreldata (3).
.RS 12
.PP
Any of the size parameters returned can also be one of the following values:
.TP
.B T_INFINITE
the size of the parameter is unlimited.
.TP
.B T_INVALID
the transport service provider has no concept of the parameter in question.
.RE
.TP
.I servtype
the service type of the underlying transport service provider.  The service
type can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B T_CLTS
connectionless transport service.
.TP
.B T_COTS
connection oriented transport service.
.TP
.B T_COTS_ORD
connection oriented transport service with orderly release.
.RE
.TP
.I flags
contains other option information about the transport service provider and may
be a bitwise OR of any of the following flags:
.RS
.TP
.B T_ORDRELDATA
when set, this flag indicates that the transport service provider will accept
data with orderly release.
.TP
.B T_SNDZERO
when set, this flag indicates that the transport service provider will accept
the transmission of zero-length data.
.TP
.B XPG4_1
when set, this flag indicates that the transport service provider supports the
XPG4 primitives
.BR T_ADDR_REQ " and " T_ADDR_ACK .
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_open ()
returns a positive integer file descriptor
.I fd
and a completed
.B t_info
structure.
Upon failure,
.BR t_open ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_open ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADFLAG ]
The argument
.I oflag
contains invalid flags.
.TP
.RB [ TBADNAME ]
The transport provider name (\fIpath\fR to the device) is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A \fBLinux\fR system error occured and the \fBLinux\fR error number is set in \fIerrno\fR(3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR errno (3),
.BR netbuf (3),
.BR open (2),
.BR t_accept (3),
.BR t_addleaf (3),
.BR t_close (3),
.BR t_connect (3),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_getinfo (3),
.BR timod (4),
.BR t_listen (3),
.BR t_rcv (3),
.BR t_rcvconnect (3),
.BR t_rcvdis (3),
.BR t_rcvleafchange (3),
.BR t_rcvreldata (3),
.BR t_rcvudata (3),
.BR t_rcvv (3),
.BR t_rcvvudata (3),
.BR t_snd (3),
.BR t_snddis (3),
.BR t_sndrel (3),
.BR t_sndreldata (3),
.BR t_sndudata (3),
.BR t_sndv (3),
.BR t_sndvudata (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR t_open ()
has no known bugs.
.BR t_open ()
has been tested for the described behavior using the
.I /usr/bin/test-xnet
conformance test program.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The XTI/TLI library functions are compatible with 
SVR4.2,
.[
svr42
.]
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B t_open
first appeared in SVR4.2.
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for the OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
