'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_rcvleafchange.3.man,v 0.9.2.9 2008-04-25 08:59:00 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-25 08:59:00 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: t_rcvleafchange.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2008-04-25 08:59:00  brian
.\" - updated references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/09/18 01:26:03  brian
.\" - updated manpages and macros
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/05 09:44:44  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_RCVLEAFCHANGE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B t_rcvleafchange
\- receive addition of point to point to multipoint connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_rcvleafchange(int " fd ", struct t_leaf_status *" change );
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport endpoint for which to receive leaf change information.
.TP
.I change
a poitner to a
.B t_leaf_status
structure to contain returned information about the leaf change.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_rcvleafchange ()
recieves a leaf change indication or confirmation.
.PP
.I fd
specifies the local transport endpoint upon which the leaf change indication
or confirmation was received.
.PP
.I change
is a pointer to a
.B t_leaf_status
structure that returns information about the leaf change.
The
.B t_leaf_status
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_leaf_status {
	int leafid;
	int status;
	int reason;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
The
.B t_leaf_status
structure specifies the following members and information:
.TP
.I leafid
returns an identifier of the leaf to which the status applies.
.TP
.I status
returns the status of the identified leaf and can be one of the following
values:
.RS
.TP 14
.B T_CONNECT
the leaf has joined the point to multipoint connection.
.TP 14
.B T_DISCONNECT
the leaf has left the point to multipoint connection.  The
.I reason
field indicates the reason for leaving.
.RE
.TP
.I reason
returns the reason for disconnect.  When
.I status
is
.BR T_CONNECT ,
this field is meaningless.
.I reason
values are transport service provider specific.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR t_rcvleafchange ()
is only valid in state
.BR T_DATAXFER .
.PP
.BR t_rcvleafchange ()
is only valid for transport service providers of service type
.BR T_COTS " or " T_COTS_ORD
that support point to multipoint connection management.
.PP
In synchronous mode,
.BR t_rcvleafchange ()
blocks unit a leaf change confirmation is received.  In asynchronous mode
where not leaf change confirmation is immediately available,
.BR t_rcvleafchange ()
fails, returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.BR TNODATA .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_rcvleafchange ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR t_rcvleafchange ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_rcvleafchange ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TLOOK ]
An asynchronous event occured before the call could complete.  See
.BR t_look (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TNODATA ]
An attempt was made to read data but no data indication was available.
.TP
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
The call requires the use of a TLI primitive not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The call was issued with the interface in an incorrect state.
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A
.B Linux
system error occured and the
.B Linux
error number is set in
.IR errno (3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR errno (3),
.BR t_addleaf (3),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_look (3),
.BR t_removeleaf (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR t_rcvleafchange ()
has no known bugs.
.BR t_rcvleafchange ()
has been tested for the described behavior using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
conformance test suites.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The XTI/TLI library functions are compatible with 
SVR4.2,
.[
svr42
.]
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns 5.2
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
Compatibility is tested using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns 5.2
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B t_rcvleafchange
first appeared in SVR4.2.
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for the OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
