'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_rcvv.3.man,v 0.9.2.6 2005/06/30 10:15:42 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/06/30 10:15:42 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_RCVV 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B t_rcvv
\- receive data and scatter
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_rcvv(int " fd ", struct t_iovec *" iov ", unsigned int " iovcnt ", int *" flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport endpoint upon which to receive scatter-gather data.
.TP
.I iov
a pointer to a
.B t_iovec
structure containing a scatter-gather array into which to receive the data.
.TP
.I iovcnt
a count of the number of buffer vectors in the array.
.TP
.I flags
a pointer to an
.I int
to contain the received data flags.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_rcvv ()
receives connection oriented data and scatters the data into a vector of
buffers.
.PP
.I fd
specifies the local transport endpoint upon which the data arrives.
.PP
.I iov
is a pointer to an array of
.B t_iovec
structures that describes the buffers to which the received data is to be
scattered.
.PP
.I iovcnt
is a count of the total number of buffers in the buffer array.
.PP
.I flags
are flags returned describing the received data.  Flags returned by
.BR t_rcvv ()
can be a bitwise OR of the following flags:
.TP
.B T_MORE
indicates on return that a subsequent receive operation is necessary to
receive the remainder of the data belonging to the same transport service data
unit.
.TP
.B T_EXPEDITED
indicates on return that the received data was expedited data.
.PP
The
.B t_iovec
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_iovec {
        void *iov_base;
        size_t iov_len;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
The
.B t_iovec
structure specifies the following members:
.TP
.I iov_base
The base of the buffer.
.TP
.I iov_len
The length of the buffer.
.PP
When data is received, each buffer in the array of buffers
.I iov
are used in order until they are filled and then data is filled into tthe next sequential buffer in
the array.
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR t_rcvv ()
is only valid in the
.BR T_DATAXFER " or " T_OUTREL
states.
.PP
.BR t_rcvv ()
is only valid for transport service providers of service type
.BR T_COTS " or " T_COTS_ORD .
.PP
In synchronous mode,
.BR t_rcvv ()
blocks until a data indication is available.  In asynchronous mode when there
is no data indication immediately available,
.BR t_rcvv ()
fails, returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNODATA ].
.PP
Portions of a transport service data unit can be interleaved with portions of
an expedited transport service data unit.
.PP
If the
.I tsdu
field of the
.B t_info
structure returned by
.BR t_open "(3) or " t_getinfo (3)
is
.BR T_INVALID ,
then the flag
.B T_MORE
has no meaning for normal data received with
.BR t_rcvv ().
If the
.I etsdu
field of the
.B t_info
structure returned by
.BR t_open "(3) or " t_getinfo (3)
is
.BR T_INVALID ,
then the flag
.B T_MORE
has no meaning for expedited data received with
.BR t_rcvv ().
.PP
.BR t_rcvv ()
is functionally equivalent to
.BR readv (2)
and the two functions can be used interchangeably;
however,
.BR readv (2)
does not maintain
.IR t_errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_rcvv ()
returns zero (0) or a positive integer reflecting the number of bytes of
received data written into the scatter buffers.
Upon failure,
.BR t_rcvv ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_rcvv ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADDATA ]
The amount of data specified for the call and underlying transport service
provider was invalid (i.e. was outside the protocol limits).  See
.BR t_getinfo (3)
and
.BR t_open (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TLOOK ]
An asynchronous event occured before the call could complete.  See
.BR t_look (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TNODATA ]
An attempt was made to read data but no data indication was available and
.I fd
was in the asynchronous mode.
.TP
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
The call requires the use of a TLI primitive not supported by the underlying transport provider.
The can happen when the transport service provider is for service type
.BR T_CLTS .
.TP
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The call was issued with the interface in a state other than
.BR T_DATAXFER " or " T_OUTREL .
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A
.B Linux
system error occured and the
.B Linux
error number is set in
.BR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR readv (2),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_getinfo (3),
.BR t_look (3),
.BR t_open (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR t_rcvv ()
has no known bugs.
.BR t_rcvv ()
has been tested for the described behavior using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
conformance test suites.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The XTI/TLI library functions are compatible with 
SVR4.2,
.[
svr42
.]
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
Compatibility is tested using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B t_rcvv
first appeared in SVR4.2.
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for the OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
