'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_rcvudata.3.man,v 0.9.2.8 2006/09/18 01:26:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/09/18 01:26:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: t_rcvudata.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/09/18 01:26:03  brian
.\" - updated manpages and macros
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/05 09:44:44  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_RCVUDATA 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B t_rcvudata
\- receive unitdata
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_rcvudata(int " fd ", struct t_unitdata *" data ", int *" flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport enpoint upon which to receive unit data.
.TP
.I data
a pointer to a
.B t_unitdata
structure to contain information about the received unit data.
.TP
.I flags
a pointer to an
.B int
to contain flags concerning the received unit data.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_rcvudata ()
received unitdata message arriving on the local transport endpoint specified
by
.IR fd .
.PP
.I fd
specifies the local transport endpoint upon which the unitdata messages are to
be reecived.
.PP
.I data
is a pointer to a
.BR t_unitdata ()
structure that returns the received unitdata message, options and originating
transport address.
.PP
.I flags
provides information about the received data on return.  Flags returned by
.BR t_rcvudata ()
can be a bitwise OR of any of the following flags:
.TP
.B T_MORE
indicates that a subsequent receive operation is necessary to receive the
remainder of the data belonging to the same transport service data unit.
.PP
The
.BR t_unitdata ()
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_unitdata {
        struct netbuf addr;             /* address */
        struct netbuf opt;              /* options */
        struct netbuf udata;            /* user data */
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
The
.BR t_unitdata ()
structure returns the following members and information:
.TP
.I addr
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure that returns the originating transport address of the received
unitdata message.
The
.I data->addr.maxlen
is significant on call and the
.I data->addr.len
is significant on return.
If
.I data->addr.maxlen
is zero on call, no originating transport address will be returned.
If
.I data->addr.len
is zero on return, not originating transport address was available with the
unitdata indication.
.TP
.I opt
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure that returns the options associated with the received unitdata
message.
The
.I data->opt.maxlen
is significant on call and the
.I data->opt.len
is significant on return.
If
.I data->opt.maxlen
is zero on call, no originating transport options will be returned.
If
.I data->opt.len
is zero on return, no originating transport options were available with the
unitdata indication.
.TP
.I udata
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure that returns the received unitdata message.
The
.I data->udata.maxlen
is significant on call and the
.I data->udata.len
is significant on return.
If
.I data->udata.maxlen
is zero on call, no originating data will be returned.
If
.I data->udata.len
is zero on return, no originating data was available with the unitdata
indication.
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR t_rcvudata ()
is only valid in state
.BR T_IDLE .
.PP
.BR t_rcvudata ()
is only valid for transport service providers of service type
.BR T_CLTS .
.PP
In synchronous mode,
.BR t_rcvudata ()
will block until a unitdata indication arrives on
.IR fd .
In asynchronous mode where the is no unitdata indication immediately
available,
.BR t_rcvudata ()
will fail, return -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNODATA ].
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_rcvudata ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR t_rcvudata ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_rcvudata ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.\".TP
.\".RB [ TBADDATA ]
.\"The amount of data specified for the call and underlying transport service
.\"provider was invalid (i.e. was outside the protocol limits).  See
.\".BR t_getinfo (3)
.\"and
.\".BR t_open (3)
.\"for more information.
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TBUFOVFLW ]
The
.I maxlen
field of a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure
.IR "" ( addr " or " opt )
passed to the call was
non-zero, but insufficient to hold the available information.  See,
.BR netbuf (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TLOOK ]
An asynchronous event occured before the call could complete.  See
.BR t_look (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TNODATA ]
An attempt was made to read data but no data indication was available and
.I fd
was in asynchronous mode
.BR "" ( O_NONBLOCK " or " O_NDELAY " was set with " t_open "(3) or " fcntl (2)).
.TP
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
The call requires the use of a TLI primitive not supported by the underlying transport provider.
This can occur when the transport service provider was of service type
.BR T_COTS " or " T_COTS_ORD .
.TP
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The call was issued with the interface in a state other than
.BR T_IDLE .
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A
.B Linux
system error occured and the
.B Linux
error number is set in
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR errno (3),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR netbuf (3),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_getinfo (3),
.BR t_look (3),
.BR t_open (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR t_rcvudata ()
has no known bugs.
.BR t_rcvudata ()
has been tested for the described behavior using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
conformance test suites.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The XTI/TLI library functions are compatible with 
SVR4.2,
.[
svr42
.]
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
Compatibility is tested using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B t_rcvudata
first appeared in SVR4.2.
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for the OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
