'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_rcvreldata.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/04/07 09:33:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/04/07 09:33:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_RCVRELDATA 3 "$Date: 2004/04/07 09:33:28 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B t_rcvreldata
\- acknowledge orderly release request with data
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_rcvreldata(int " fd ", struct t_discon *" discon );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport endpoint for which to receive orderly release with data.
.TP
.I discon
a pointer to a
.B t_discon
structure to contain returned information about the release.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_rcvreldata ()
receives an orderly release indication with disconnect data arriving on the
specified local transport endpoint
.IR fd .
.PP
.I fd
specifies the local transport endpoint upon which an orderly release
indication with disconnect data is to be received.
.PP
.I discon
is a pointer to a
.B t_discon
structure that returns the disconnect data and disconnect reason.
The
.B t_discon
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_discon {
        struct netbuf udata;            /* user data */
        int reason;                     /* reason code */
        int sequence;                   /* sequence number */
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
The
.B t_discon
structure returns the following members and information:
.TP
.I udata
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure that returns the user disconnect data associated with the orderly
release indication.
The
.I discon->udata.maxlen
field is significant on call and the
.I discon->udata.len
field is significant on return.
If the
.I discon->udata.maxlen
is zero on call, no user disconnect data will be returned.
If the
.I discon->udata.len
is zero on return, no user disconnect data was provided as part of the orderly
release indication.
.TP
.I reason
the disconnect reason is a transport service provider specific value.
.TP
.I sequence
is not used for
.BR t_rcvreldata ()
and is left unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR t_rcvreldata ()
is only valid in states
.BR T_DATAXFER " and " T_OUTREL .
.PP
.BR t_rcvreldata ()
is only supported by transport providers of service type
.B T_COTS_ORD
that have
.B T_ORDRELDATA
set in the
.I flags
field of the
.B t_info
structure in response to
.BR t_open "(3) or " t_getinfo (3).
.PP
In synchronous mode,
.BR t_rcvreldata ()
blocks until an orderly release indication is received.  In asynchronous mode
when no orderly release indication is immediately available,
.BR t_rcvreldata ()
fails, returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.BR TNOREL .
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_rcvreldata ()
returns zero (0) and the user disconnect data and disconnect reason in the
provided
.B t_discon
structure.
Upon failure,
.BR t_rcvreldata ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_rcvreldata ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TBUFOVFLW ]
The
.I maxlen
field of a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure passed to the call was
non-zero, but insufficient to hold the available opaque information.  See,
.BR netbuf (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TLOOK ]
An asynchronous event occured before the call could complete.  See
.BR t_look (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TNOREL ]
An attempt was made to read an orderly release and no orderly release indication was available.
.TP
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
The call requires the use of a TLI primitive not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The call was issued with the interface in an incorrect state.
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A
.B Linux
system error occured and the
.B Linux
error number is set in
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR errno (3),
.BR netbuf (3),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_getinfo (3),
.BR t_look (3),
.BR t_open (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR t_rcvreldata ()
has no known bugs.
.BR t_rcvreldata ()
has been tested for the described behavior using the
.I /usr/bin/test-xnet
conformance test program.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
XTI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
