'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH XNSL 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B xnsl
\- XNS 5.2 Network Services Library (NSL)
.BR "" ( libxnsl )
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.BR cc  " [" flags "] file " "-lxnet -lnsl -lxnsl
.br
.BR cc  " [" flags "] file " "-lsocket -lnsl -lxnsl
.PP
.B #include <netconfig.h>
.ad l
.HP 12
.BI "void *setnetconfig(void);"
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "struct netconfig *getnetconfig(void *" handle );
.HP
.BI "int endnetconfig(void *" handle );
.HP
.BI "struct netconfig *getnetconfigent(const char *" netid );
.HP
.BI "void freenetconfigent(struct netconfig *" netconfig );
.HP
.BI "void nc_perror(const char *" msg );
.HP
.BI "char *nc_sperror(void);"
.PD
.HP
.BI "void *setnetpath(void);"
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "struct netconfig *getnetpath(void *" handle );
.HP
.BI "int endnetpath(void *" handle );
.PD
.HP
.BI "int netdir_getbyname(struct netconfig *" config ", struct nd_hostserv *" service ", struct nd_addrlist **" addrs );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int netdir_getbyaddr(struct netconfig *" config ", struct nd_hostservlist **" services ", struct netbuf *" addr );
.HP
.BI "int netdir_options(struct netconfig *" config ", int " option ", int " fd ", char *" point_to_args ");
.HP
.BI "char *taddr2uaddr(struct netconfig *" config ", struct netbuf *" addr );
.HP
.BI "struct netbuf *uaddr2taddr(struct netconfig *" config ", struct netbuf *" addr );
.HP
.BI "void netdir_free(void *" ptr ", int " struct_type );
.HP
.BI "void netdir_perror(char *" msg );
.HP
.BI "char *netdir_sperror(void);"
.PD
.ad b
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
.IR UNIX \(rg
has traditionally provided three components of the Network Services Library,
.BR libnsl ,
that are associated with Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9)
network pseudo-device drivers, and that are not currently part of the
.B Linux
Network Services Library
.RB ( libnsl ).
These components are:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
Network Configuration database access, see
.BR netconfig (3).
.PD 0
.IP 2.
Network Path access, see
.BR netpath (3).
.IP 3.
Network Directory and address mapping, see
.BR netdir (3).
.PD
.PP
These are often refered to as the Network Selection facility of the Network
Services Library.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B libxnsl
is an
.B OpenSS7
implementation of the XNS 5.2 Network Services Library (NSL) for
.B LFS
(Linux Fast-STREAMS).
It implements the following NSL API library functions:
.PP
Network configuration database functions,
.BR netconfig (3):
.TP \w'\fBnetdir_getbyname\fR(3)\(em'u
.BR setnetconfig (3)
bind to or rewind netconfig database.
.PD 0
.TP
.BR getnetconfig (3)
get next entry from netconfig database.
.TP
.BR endnetconfig (3)
unbind from netconfig database.
.TP
.BR getnetconfigent (3)
get netconfig database entry by network id.
.TP
.BR freenetconfigent (3)
free netconfig database entry.
.TP
.BR nc_perror (3)
print netconfig database error to standard error.
.TP
.BR nc_sperror (3)
retrieve netconfig database error string.
.PD
.PP
Network path database functions,
.BR netpath (3):
.TP \w'\fBnetdir_getbyname\fR(3)\(em'u
.BR setnetpath (3)
bind to or rewind
.RB { NETPATH }
filtered netconfig database.
.PD 0
.TP
.BR getnetpath (3)
get next entry from
.RB { NETPATH }
filtered netconfig database.
.TP
.BR endnetpath (3)
unbind from
.RB { NETPATH }
filtered netconfig database.
.PD
.PP
Network directory database functions,
.BR netdir (3):
.TP \w'\fBnetdir_getbyname\fR(3)\(em'u
.BR netdir_getbyname (3)
lookup address by host and service name.
.PD 0
.TP
.BR netdir_getbyaddr (3)
lookup host and service names by address.
.TP
.BR netdir_options (3)
set or clear transport provider options.
.TP
.BR taddr2uaddr (3)
convert transport address to universal address.
.TP
.BR uaddr2taddr (3)
convert universal address to transport address.
.TP
.BR netdir_free (3)
free netdir datastructure.
.TP
.BR netdir_perror (3)
print netdir error to standard error.
.TP
.BR netdir_sperror (3)
retrieve netdir error string.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
These functions normally return
.BR void ,
return an integer value,
.BR int ,
where zero
.RB ( 0 )
indicates success and minus one
.RB ( -1 )
indicates failure, or returns a pointer to the appropriate database or address structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Handling of error numbers is not specified in the
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
documentation.
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documentation mentions a
.B _nderror
global variable that holds the
.BR netdir (3)
function error numbers (but does not list what they are).  It also mentions that
.IR errno (3)
and
.IR t_errno (3)
are set.

.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Normally the
.BR netconfig (5)
database would be handled using either local files
.RB ( /etc/netconfig ),
Berkeley databases, or NIS maps.  Unfortunately, it is not easy to add a
database to the glibc
.BR libnsl ,
otherwise, it would be a simple matter.
Functions in
.B libxnsl
have been declared as weak to allow future implementations in glibc to
override.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR setnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR endnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfigent (3),
.BR freenetconfigent (3),
.BR nc_perror (3),
.BR nc_sperror (3),
.BR setnetpath (3),
.BR getnetpath (3),
.BR endnetpath (3),
.BR netdir_getbyname (3),
.BR netdir_getbyaddr (3),
.BR taddr2uaddr (3),
.BR uaddr2taddr (3),
.BR netdir_free (3),
.BR netdir_perror (3),
.BR netdir_sperror (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The NSL library
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The NSL library functions are compatible with 
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The NSL interface first appeared in
.BR SVR4 .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
