@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: descrip.texi,v 0.9.2.6 2007/08/14 21:03:48 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/08/14 21:03:48 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@cite{Iperf} is a general purpose tool for measuring bandwidth and performance of the @cite{Internet
Protocol} suite.  The @cite{OpenSS7 Modified @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is an
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7 Project} release of the DAST @code{iperf} package configured
to run with @cite{OpenSS7 Linux Native Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)}.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides primarily the @manref{iperf(1)}, C++ Language
program that acts as either an @cite{Iperf} server or client for testing connections and networking.
The @manpage{iperf(1)} program is executed on one host in server mode and then executed on another
host in client mode.  Characteristics of the connection or association can be altered when formed.
Reporting formats and sample intervals can also be altered when the connection or association is
formed.

This is a fork of the @dfn{Iperf} package released by the @cite{University of Illinois} modified by
the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7 Project} for use with @cite{OpenSS7 SCTP (Stream Control
Transmission Protocol)}.  This @cite{OpenSS7} release of the package is based on the
@dfn{Iperf-2.0.0} release from the @cite{University of Illinois}.

Modifications to the package are derived from the @cite{OpenSS7 SCTP} implementation and are
released under the @cite{GNU General Public License (GPL) Version 3}.  The @dfn{Iperf} tool itself
is licensed under specific terms by the @cite{University of Illinois}.  Please see @file{LICENSES}
for the @cite{University of Illinois} @dfn{Iperf} copyright notices and licensing restrictions.  The
@dfn{Iperf} tool is:

@quotation
Copyright 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 @*
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois @*
All rights reserved
@end quotation

See @cite{University of Illinois} License in the @file{LICENSES} file for complete details.

Please note that this modified version of the @dfn{Iperf} package is not endorsed by the
@cite{University of Illinois} or @cite{DAST} in any way and that neither the original copyright
holders nor @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} will take any responsibility in it.

This distribution is only currently applicable to @cite{Linux} 2.4 kernels and was targeted
at @code{ix86}, @code{x86_64}, @code{ppc} and @code{ppc64} architectures, but should build and
install for other architectures as well.

