@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.7 2007/01/09 22:20:41 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/01/09 22:20:41 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @*
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package
as well as compatibility information of OpenSS7 releases to the original
@cite{University of Illinois} releases.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.5::		Release 5
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.5.rc3::		Release 5 Candidate 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.5.rc2::		Release 5 Candidate 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.5rc1::		Release 5 Candidate 1
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.4::		Release 4
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.3::		Release 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.2::		Release 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.1-1::		Release 1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.5
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.5
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.5

This is the fifth full release of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.
This is a stable, production grade release: it deprecates previous releases.
Please upgrade to the most current release before reporting bugs.

This release is largely a maintenance release that provides support for more
distributions an architectures as well as tracking feature updates on related
packages (i.e. @file{sctp-@value{VERSION_SCTP}}).

Additional features include:

@itemize -
@item
Added @command{send-pr} scripts for automatic problem report generation.

@item
Added @command{--disable-devel} @command{configure} option to suppress
building and installing development environment.  This feature is for embedded
or pure run-time targets that do not need the development environment (static
libraries, manual pages, documentation).

@item
Improved compiler flag generation and optimizations for recent @command{gcc}
compilers and some idiosyncratic behaviour for some distributions (primarily
SUSE).

@item
Optimized compilation is now available also for user level programs in
addition to kernel programs.  Added new @option{--with-optimize} option to
@command{configure} to accomplish this.

@item
Better detection of SUSE distributions, release numbers and SLES
distributions: support for additional @cite{SuSE} distributions on @code{ix86}
as well as @code{x86_64}.  Added distribution support includes @cite{SLES 9},
@cite{SLES 9 SP2}, @cite{SLES 9 SP3}, @cite{SLES 10}, @cite{SuSE 10.1}.

@item
Many documentation updates for all @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7}
packages.  Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and
timely text documentation present in the release directory.
j
@end itemize

@emph{This is a public stable production grade release of the package: it deprecates previous
releases.  Please upgrade to the current release before reporting bugs.}

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs and builds RPMs and DEBs
for a wide range of Linux 2.4 and 2.6 RPM- and DPKG-based distributions, and can be used on
production kernels without patching or recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released under the @cite{GNU General Public License Version 2} as well as
the University of Illinois license (see @file{LICENSE} in the release for more information).  The
release is available as an @command{autoconf} tarball, SRPM, DSC, and set of binary RPMs and DEBs.
See the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html,downloads page} for the @command{autoconf}
tarballs, SRPMs and DSCs.  For tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and binary RPMs and DEBs, see the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html,@value{PACKAGE} package page}.

See @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog} and
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS} in the release for more
information.  Also, see the @file{@value{PACKAGE}.pdf} manual in the release (also in html
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html}).

For the news release, see @uref{http://www.openss7.org/rel20070108_1.html}.



@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.5.rc3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.5.rc3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.5.rc3

Third release candidate.
This is a @dfn{maintenance} release candidate.
This release candidate includes:

@itemize -
@item
Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and timely text
documentation present in the release directory.

@item
Many documentation updates for all @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7}
packages.

@item
Changes made to the strsctp drivers at the @cite{2006 SCTP Interop} at the
@cite{University of British Columbia}.  This version was interoperability
tested with all implementations present.

@item
Support for additional @cite{SuSE} distributions on @code{ix86} as well as
@code{x86_64}.  Added distribution support includes @cite{SLES 9}, @cite{SLES
9 SP2}, @cite{SLES 9 SP3}, @cite{SLES 10}, @cite{SuSE 10.1}.

@item
Better detection of SUSE distributions, release numbers and SLES
distributions.

@item
Optimized compilation for user level programs.  New @option{--with-optimize}
option to @command{configure}.

@item
Now includes an @cite{Installation and Reference Manual} (you are reading it).
@end itemize

This was an internal alpha test release candidate and was not released publicly.
This release was only available to subscribers to and sponsors of the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.5.rc2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.5.rc2
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.5.rc2

Second release candidate.
This is a @dfn{maintenance} release candidate.
This release candidate includes:

@itemize -
@item
Results of performance testing of the new second generation UDP driver
(implemented completely in STREAMS instead of using an internal socket).

@item
Support for SuSE 10.1.
@end itemize

This was an internal alpha test release candidate and was not released publicly.
This release was only available to subscribers to and sponsors of the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.5rc1
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.5rc1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.5rc1

Release candidate for Mark Fugate.
This is a @dfn{maintenance} release candidate.
This release candidate includes:

@itemize -
@item
Added @option{--enable-devel} configure option for embedded targets.

@item
Added @command{send-pr} script for automatic problem report generation.
@end itemize

This was an internal alpha test release candidate and was not released publicly.
This release was only available to subscribers to and sponsors of the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.4
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.4
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.4

Corrections for and testing of 64-bit clean compile and test runs on x86_64
architecture.  Some bug corrections resulting from gcc 4.0.2 compiler
warnings.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.3

Minor changes and bug fixes.  Still remaining to do is merge in the latest
upstream release of iperf.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.2
@unnumberedsubsec Initial public release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.2
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.2

With this release version numbers were changed to reflect an upstream version
only to be consistent with other OpenSS7 package releases.  All RPM release
numbers will be -1$(PACKAGE_RPMEXTRA) and all Debian release numbers will be
_0.  If you wish to apply patches and release the package, please bump up
the release number and apply a suitable release suffix for your organization.
We leave Debian release number _1 reserved for your use, so you can still
bundle the source in the .dsc file.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.1-1
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.1-1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.0.1-1

Initial autoconf/rpm packaging release of Iperf.

This is an autoconf/rpm release of Iperf suitable for use with OpenSS7 Linux
Native SCTP (Stream Control Transmission Protocol).  It is usable for
performance testing the SCTP application as well as supporting all other Iperf
TCP and UDP testing.

Not publicly released.

