@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: todo.texi,v 0.9.2.3 2007/06/22 00:18:23 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/06/22 00:18:23 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@subsubheading Current Plan

There is no current plan for the @file{iperf} package beyond minor distribution maintenance.  The
package tests the OpenSS7 Linux Native Sockets version of sctp (@samp{sctp} package) nicely, but
that package only runs on 2.4 kernels.  When the @file{strsock} package is complete for Linux
Fast-STREAMS, the OpenSS7 Project will likely haul this back out and use it for testing the STREAMS
versions of UDP, TCP and SCTP using the socklib interface.  But, the @file{strsock} package
completion itself is not planned, so you can only likely expect maintenance releases of this
package.  The package could be extended to test lksctp as well, however, comparisons between lksctp
and sctp can only be done on 2.4 kernels for now.  This type of work has been mooted by the current
popularity of 2.6 kernels.

@subsubheading Things to Do

@itemize @minus

@item
Write a texinfo manual for Iperf.

@emph{*done*}

You are reading it.

@item
Merge upstream changes from the latest @cite{University of Illinois} release of the @cite{Iperf}
package into the @cite{OpenSS7 Modified} version.  It would really like to do this but don't have
the time for it right now.  If someone is willing to dive in and give this a try, send me the
patches.

@item
@cite{Iperf} is capable of performing performance testing on @cite{lksctp} as well.  I would like to
modify the @cite{OpenSS7} version of @cite{Iperf} to support both so that performance comparison
testing can be done between @cite{lkstcp} (which sucks of course) and @cite{OpenSS7}.

@end itemize

