'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: extraformat.5.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-05-03 11:42:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-05-03 11:42:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: extraformat.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-03 11:42:28  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.TH EXTRAFORMAT 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Data Structures"
.SH NAME
.B extraformat
\- Non-OSI Quality of Service parameter format structure
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR "Network Layer Interface (NLI)" ,
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
.B #include <netx25/x25_proto.h>

#define MAX_NUI_LEN     64
#define MAX_RPOA_LEN     8
#define MAX_CUG_LEN      2
#define MAX_FAC_LEN     32
#define MAX_TARIFFS      4
#define MAX_CD_LEN      MAX_TARRIFS * 4
#define MAX_SC_LEN      MAX_TARRIFS * 8
#define MAX_MU_LEN      16

struct extraformat {
    unsigned char fastselreq;
    unsigned char restrictresponse;
    unsigned char reversecharges;
    unsigned char pwoptions;
#define NEGOT_PKT   0x01 /* packet size negotiable */
#define NEGOT_WIN   0x02 /* window size negotiable */
#define ASSERT_HWM  0x04 /* concatentation limit assert */
    unsigned char locpacket;
    unsigned char rempacket;
#define DEF_X25_PKT 7 /* the standard default packet size */
    unsigned char locwsize;
    unsigned char remwsize;
#define DEF_X25_WIN 2 /* the standard default window size */
    int nsdulimit;
    unsigned char nui_len;
    unsigned char nui_field[MAX_NUI_LEN];
    unsigned char rpoa_len;
    unsigned char rpoa_field[MAX_RPOA_LEN];
    unsigned char cug_type;
    unsigned char cug_field[MAX_CUG_LEN];
    unsigned char reqcharging;
    unsigned char chg_cd_len;
    unsigned char chg_cd_field[MAX_CD_LEN];
    unsigned char chg_sc_len;
    unsigned char chg_sc_field[MAX_SC_LEN];
    unsigned char chg_mu_len;
    unsigned char chg_mu_field[MAX_MU_LEN];
    unsigned char called_add_mod;
    unsigned char call_redirect;
    struct lsapformat called;
    unsigned char call_deflect;
    unsigned char x_fac_len;
    unsigned char cq_fac_len;
    unsigned char cd_fac_len;
    unsigned char fac_field[MAX_FAC_LEN];
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
.PP
The fields in this structure are:
.\"
.TP
.IR fastselreq
Applies only to non-OSI applications, for example X.29.  A non-zero value means
the X.25 facility fast select is to be requested or indicated.  Note: For CONS,
the use of fast select need not be requested.
.\"
.TP
.IR restrictresponse
Sets response to be a Clear Request.  If the response to a Connect Request or
Indication is to be a Disconnect Indication, the filed
.I restrictresponse
is non-zero.
.\"
.TP
.IR reversecharges
A non-zero value means that reverse charging is requested or indicated for this
connection.  Note: The configuration mode bit,
.BR SUB_REVCHARGE ,
has an impact on whether reverse charging is indicated, since it is possible to
select a per-subnetwork-status for receipt of reverse charging.
.\"
.TP
.IR pwoptions
The
.I pwoptions
field is used to indicate per (virtual) circuit options.  The field is a bit
map interpreted as shown below:
.RS
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lblblblbs
lllils.
Bit:Value:Symbol:Meaning
_
bit 0:0:-:T{
Packet size negotiation not permitted
T}
:1:NEGOT_PKT:T{
Packet size negotiation permitted
T}
bit 1:0:-:T{
Window size negotiation not permitted
T}
:1:NEGOT_WIN:T{
Window size negotiation permitted
T}
bit 2:0:-:T{
No concatentation limit asserted
T}
:1:ASSERT_HWM:T{
Assert concatentation limit
T}
_
.TE
.PP
This field is used for two reasons:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The X.25 software always indicates the values of the window and packet sizes
operating on the virtual circuit.  The field
.I pwoptions
for an incoming call indicates whether these values are negotiable.
.IP 2.
In Connect Requests and Connect Resposnes, the NLI user can set
.IR nsdulimit ,
the limit value for packet concatentation by the X.25 level, to a value
different from the limit in the subnetwork configuration database.  It is not
a negotiable option, so whatever the user requests is used.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.IR locpacket ", " rempacket
If the fields
.IR locpacket " and " rempacket
are non-zero,
.I locpacket
contains indicated or negotiated encoded packet sizes for the direction
local-to-remote and
.I rempacket
contains the indicated or negotiated encoded packet sizes for the direction
remote-to-local.
The actual packet size is 2 to the power of the value specified.
The standard default packet size,
.BR DEF_X25_PKT ,
is
.BR 7 ,
(i.e.,
.B 128
octets).
.\"
.TP
.IR locwsize ", " remwsize
If the fields
.IR locwsize " and " remwsize
are non-zero, they contain indicated or negotiated window sizes for the
directions local-to-remote and remote-to-local.  The standard default window
size,
.BR DEF_X25_WIN
is
.BR 2 .
.\"
.TP
.I nsdulimit
Specifies the packet concatenation limit.
If the field
.I nsdulimit
is non-zero and the appropriate bit is set in the
.I pwoptions
field described above, the
.I nsdulimit
specified is ued as the concatentation limit.
.\"
.TP
.IR nui_len
The length of any Network User Identification used in Call Requests and
Responses.
.\"
.TP
.IR nui_field
Network User Identification used in Call Requests and Responses.  This is not
available on yellow book X.25 (1980) networks.
.\"
.TP
.IR nui_len ", " nui_field
The network user identification (NUI) is used in connect requests and
responses.  It is not available on yellow book X.25 (1980) networks.  If the
field
.I nui_len
is non-zero, the network user identification is supplied in the
.I nui_field
and is of length
.I nui_len
octets.
.\"
.TP
.IR rpoa_len
The length of any RPOA DNIC information used in Call Requests.  Valid values
for
.I rpoa_len
are
.BR 0 ", " 4 ", " 8 ", " 12 " and " 16 ".
.\"
.TP
.IR rpoa_field
Any Recognized Private Operating Agency (RPOA) DNIC information.  This is used
in Call Requests only.  It is stored as two BCD digits per byte, right
justified.
.RS
.PP
On yellow book X.25 (1980) networks, this is restricted to one RPOA and 4 BCD
digits.  Basic format encoding is used.
.PP
On red book X.25 (1984) and blue book X.25 (1988) networks, there can be one
or more RPOA.  Extended format encoding is used if there is more than one RPOA.
The maximum number of RPOA is 4.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.IR rpoa_len ", " rpoa_field
Recognized primitive operating agency (RPOA), used in connect requests only.
If the field
.I rpoa_len
is non-zero, the RPOA DNIC information is supplied in
.I rpoa_field
and is of length
.I rpoa_len
semi-octets.
.RS
.PP
For a yellow book X.25 (1980) network, this is restricted to one RPOA of
length 4 semi-octets.  The basic format encoding is used for the RPOA
selected.
.PP
For a red or blue book X.25 (1984 or 1988) network, one or more RPOAs can be
selected.  The extended format encoding is used only if the number of RPOAs
selected is greater than 1.  The maximum number of RPOAs selected is
restricted to 4.  Valid values for rpoa_len are 0, 4, 8, 12 and 16.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.IR cug_type
Closed user group type.  Possible values are:
.RS
.TP
.B CUG
Closed user group.
.PD 0
.TP
.B BCUG
Bilateral CUG.
.TP
.B 0
No CUG used.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.TP
.IR cug_field
Any applicable CUG information, stored as two BCD digits per byte, right
justified.
.RS
.IP \fBNote:\fP \w'\fBNote:\fP\(em'u
Incoming Close User Group facilities are assumed to have been validated by the
network.  No further checking is performed.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.IR cug_type ", " cug_field
This field is used in Connect Requests and Indications only.  If the field
.I cug_type
is non-zero, the CUG information is supplied right-justified in
.IR cug_field .
Values for
.I cut_type
are as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B CUG
Close user group, up to four semi-octets.
.TP
.B BGUG
Bilateral CUG (two members only), four semi-octets.
.IP \fBNote:\fP
Incomfing CUG facilities are assumed to have been validated by the network.  No
further checking is performed.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.IR reqcharging
Requests call charging in a Call Request or Connect Accept.
.\"
.TP
.IR chg_cd_len
Gives the length of the
.IR chg_cd_field .
.\"
.TP
.IR chg_cd_field
Specifies dureation of the call if call charging is in use.  Used in a
Disconnect Indication or Confirmation.
.\"
.TP
.IR chg_sc_len
Give the length of the
.IR chg_sc_field .
.\"
.TP
.IR chg_sc_field
Specifies segment count if call charging is in use.  Used in a Disconnect
Indication or Confirmation.
.\"
.TP
.IR chg_mu_len
Gives the length of the
.IR chg_mu_field .
.\"
.TP
.IR chg_mu_field
Specifies the monetary unit if call charging is in use.  Used in a Disconnect
Indication or Confirmation.
.\"
.TP
.IR reqcharging ", " chg_cd_len ", " chg_cd_field ", " chg_sc_len ", " chg_sc_field ", " chg_mu_len ", " chg_mu_field
If the field
.I reqcharging
is non-zero in a Connect Request or Indication, Call Charging is requeseted.
In a Disconnect Indication or Confirmation, the following fields give the
charging information:
.IR chg_cd_len " and " chg_cd_field
give the length and value of the call duration;
.IR chg_sc_len " and " chg_sc_field
give the length and value of the segment count;
.IR chg_mu_len " and " chg_mu_field
give the length and value of the monetary unit.
A zero length field means no charging informaion is supplied for the relevant
charging category.
.\"
.TP
.IR called_add_mod
A one-byte field holding the reason for any address modification as defined in
X.25 Recommendation,
.[
x25
.]
encoded as follows:
.RS
.TP \w'\fB00000000\fP\(em'u
.B x0000001
Called DTE busy.  Call redirected.
.PD 0
.TP
.B x0000111
Call distribution within hung group.
.TP
.B x0001001
Called DTE out of order.  Call redirected.
.TP
.B x0001111
Called DTE has requested systematic redirection.
.TP
.B 11000000
Called DTE deflected call.
.TP
.B 11000001
Called DTE busy.  Gateway redirected call.
.TP
.B 11001001
Called DTE out of order.  Gateway redirected call.
.TP
.B 11001111
Called DTE has requested systematic redirection. Gateway redirected call.
.PD
.PP
Where
.B x
indicates that this bit is
.B 0
if the address modification occured in a public
data network and
.B 1
if it occured ina private network.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.IR call_redirect
A one-byte field holding the reason for a call redirection as defined in the
X.25 Recommendation,
.[
x25
.]
encoded as follows:
.RS
.TP \w'\fB00000000\fP\(em'u
.B 00000001
Called DTE busy.  Call redirected.
.PD 0
.TP
.B 00000111
Call distribution within hunt group.
.TP
.B 00001001
Called DTE out of order.  Call redirected.
.TP
.B 00001111
Called DTE has requested systematic redirection.
.TP
.B 11000000
Called DTE deflected call.
.TP
.B 11000001
Called DTE busy.  Gateway redirected call.
.TP
.B 11001001
Called DTE out of order.  Gateway redirected call.
.TP
.B 11001111
Called DTE has requested systematic redirection.  Gateway redirected call.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.TP
.IR called
Supplies the originally-called DTE address.
.\"
.TP
.IR call_deflect
A one-byte field holding the reason for call deflection as defined in X.25
Recommendation,
.[
x25
.]
encoded as follows:
.RS
.TP \w'\fB00000000\fP\(em'u
.B 11000000
Called DTE deflected call.
.PD 0
.TP
.B 11000001
Called DTE busy.  Gateway redirected call.
.TP
.B 11001001
Called DTE out of order.  Gateway redirected call.
.TP
.B 11001111
Called DTE has requested systematic redirection.  Gateway redirected call.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.TP
.IR deflected
In a Clear Request, contains the DTE address, and if required, the NSAP that a
call is to be deflected to.
.\"
.TP
.IR x_fac_len
Indicates the length of a
.I fac_field
relating to X.25 facilities.
.\"
.TP
.IR cq_fac_len
Indicates the length of a
.I fac_field
relating to non-X.25 facilities for the calling network.
.\"
.TP
.IR cd_fac_len
Indicates the length of a
.I fac_field
relating to non-X.25 facilities for the called network.
.\"
.TP
.IR fac_field
This field is used in Call Requests and Connect Accepts only.  It allows for
the passing of explicit facility encoded strings for X.25 facilities, and
non-X25 facilities for calling and called networks.
.RS
.IP \fBNote:\fP \w'\fBNote:\fP\(em'u
The contents of this field are not validated or acted upon by the code.  The
X.25 facilities are inserted at the end of any other X.25 facilities which are
passed in the Call Request/Accept (for example, packet/window sizes).  If any
non-X.25 facilities are supplied the appropriate marker is inserted before the
supplied facilities.  Take care not to duplicate any facilities.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.IR x_fac_len ", " cq_fac_len ", " cd_fac_len ", " fac_field
These fields are used in Connect Requests and Indications only.  Provision is
made for the passing of explicity facility encoded strings for X.25 facilities,
and non-X.25 facilities for calling and called networks.  The fields
.IR x_fac_len ", " cq_fac_len " and " cd_fac_len
denote the lengths of the facilities in the field
.IR fac_field
relating to X.25 facilities, non-X.25 facilities for the calling network, and
non-X.25 facilities for the called network.  If the length field is zero, this
denotes that no facilities are supplied for the corresponding facility
category.  Note: The contents of this field, if supplied, are not validated or
acted upon by the code.  The X.25 facilities are inserted at the end of any
other X.25 facilities that are passed in the Connect Request/Indication (for
example, packet/window sizes).  If any non-X.25 facilities are supplied, the
appropriate marker is inserted before the supplied facilities.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
For those NLI applications that require them, the non-OSI facilities supported
are as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
non-OSI extended addressing;
.IP \(bu
X.25 fast select request/indication with no restriction on response;
.IP \(bu
X.25 fast select reqeust/indication with restriction on response;
.IP \(bu
X.25 reverse charging;
.IP \(bu
X.25 packet size negotiation;
.IP \(bu
X.25 window size negotiation;
.IP \(bu
X.25 network user identification;
.IP \(bu
X.25 recognized private operating agency selection;
.IP \(bu
X.25 closed user groups;
.IP \(bu
X.25 call deflection;
.IP \(bu
X.25 programmable facilities.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH CONTEXT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH MT-CONTEXT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The Network Layer Interface (NLI) is a proprietary interface without a formal
standard.  Either the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
or the XTI-X25 interface,
.[
xx25
.]
.BR xti_x25 (3),
should be used in its stead.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
The
.B extraformat
structure is defined in the
.RB < netx25/x25_proto.h >
file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR qosformat (3),
.BR NLI (7),
.IR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B extraformat
structure is compatible with NLI, and implementations based on NLI such as
.IR "Solaris Solstice" \(rg " X.25 9.2" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
.IR "IRIX SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX X.25/9000" ,
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
with the following considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR "Solaris Solstice" \(rg " X.25 9.2" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
.IR "IRIX SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
are consistent in their documentation of the
.B extraformat
structure.
.IP \(em
NLI is an inherently low level and non-portable interface and should not be
used by portable programs.  Portable programs should use the NPI or XX25
interfaces in its stead.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted: only a rough source compatibility.  Any
binary compatibility exhibited is a bug and is scheduled to be removed in the
next release.
.PP
See
.BR NLI (7),
.IR STREAMS (4),
for additional compatiblity considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The NLI is not a formal standard.  The
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of NLI conforms to documentation for Version 3 of the NLI.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The NLI is an interface originally developed by Spider Systems, Ltd. (now a
division of Emmerson Power).  The NLI interface found its way into may
mainstream UNIX implementations and UNIX-like RTOS sporting STREAMS such as
Windriver's VxWorks.  The NLI was never standardized and remains an inherently
non-portable interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of X.25.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
