'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: lapbtemplate.5.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-06-13 06:43:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-06-13 06:43:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: lapbtemplate.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-06-13 06:43:53  brian
.\" - added files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.TH LAPBTEMPLATE 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Data Structures"
.SH NAME
.B lapbtemplate
\- Link Access Protocol (Balanced) File Format
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B lapbtemplate
describes the file format for input to the
.BR lltune (8)
command for LAPB class subnetworks.
The file format consists of a number of parameter values, one per line,
formated as described below.  Each parameter value is described using its line
number in the file, a parameter name, and a description of the format of the
value.  Only the value appears in the file, each value on a line by itself, one
value per line.
.PP
Each of the LAPB configuration parameters corresponds to the member and values
of the
.B lapb_tune
structure, that is carried in a
.B lapb_tnioc
structure by the
.B L_LAPBTUNE
input-output control.
.PP
These protocol parameters, and the default values that exist when tuning has
not been applied to a newly created LAPB subnetwork, correspond directly to the
protocol parameters and defaults in ISO/IEC 7776,
.[
iso7776
.]
X.25
.[
x25
.]
and X.75.
.[
x75
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The LAP template consists of 16 to 18 lines containing the following
configuration information:
.IP 1. \w'00.\(em'u
.B N2_VAL
is the maximum number of times that a protocol data unit (PDU) is sent
following the expiry of the acknowledgement timer, the P-bit timer, or the
reject timer.  It also limits the number of times an RR with the P-bit set is
sent when remote busy is true and the busy timer expires.
.IP 2.
.B T1_VAL
is the time during which the LAPB expects to receive an acknowledgement to an
outstanding I-PDU or an expceted response to a sent UI-PDU.
The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.
.IP 3.
.B TPF_VAL
is the time during which the LAPB expects to receive a PDU with the F-bit set to
1 in response to a command with the P-bit set to 1.  The value should be less
than the acknowledgement timer.
The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.
.IP 4.
.B TREJ_VAL
is the time interval during which the LAPB expects to receive a reply to a sent
REJ PDU.
The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.
.IP 5.
.B TBUSY_VAL
is the time interval during which the LAPB waits for an indication of the
clearance of a busy condition at the other LAPB.
The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.
.IP 6.
.B IDLE_VAL
is the time during which the LAPB expects to receive a PDU from the other LAPB.
If it expires then the P/F cycle is initiated whcih may result in link
disconnection.
The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.
.IP 7.
.B ACK_DELAY
is the maximum delay in 0.1 second units before transmitting a delayed RR.  This
must be considerably less than the acknowledgement timer value.
.IP 8.
.B NOTACK_MAX
is the maximum number of unacknowledged receive I PDUs before the RR
acknowledging them all must be sent.
.IP 9.
.B LOC_WIND
is the number of unacknowledged I PDUs which may be sent.
.IP 10.
.B LOC_PROBE
is the position before the window is closed at which an I PDU is sent with the
P-bit set to solicit an acknowledgement from the receiver.
.IP 11.
.B MAX_I_LEN
is the maximum size of a LAPB I-frame.  LAPB requries all incoming I-frames
above a certain size to be rejected by a FRMR.  This parameter specifies the
maximum size.  It is costructued as (maximum X.25 data size + X.25 protocol
length + LAPB protocol length).
.IP 12.
.B IGN_UA_ERROR
defines whether or not to ignore any UA frames received, when the connection is
in ERROR state.
The value is \*(lq\fB1\fP\*(rq for true; \*(lq\fB0\fP\*(rq, for false.
The default value is false.
.IP 13.
.B FRMR_FRMR_ERROR
defines whether or not to re-transmit a frame reject if a frame reject is
received, when the connection is in ERROR state.
The value is \*(lq\fB1\fP\*(rq for true; \*(lq\fB0\fP\*(rq, for false.
The default value is false.
.IP 14.
.B FRMR_INVRSP_ERROR
defines whether or not to transmit a frame reject if an invalid frame response
is received, when the connection is in ERROR state.
The value is \*(lq\fB1\fP\*(rq for true; \*(lq\fB0\fP\*(rq, for false.
The default value is false.
.IP 15.
.B SFRAME_PBIT
defines whether or not to send a frame reject if an S-Frame is received without
the P-bit set.
The value is \*(lq\fB1\fP\*(rq for true; \*(lq\fB0\fP\*(rq, for false.
The default value is false.
.IP 16.
.B NO_DM_ADM
defines whether or not to send a DM on entry to ADM state after an N2 count
expiry.
The value is \*(lq\fB1\fP\*(rq for true; \*(lq\fB0\fP\*(rq, for false.
The default value is false.
.PP
The following two fields are enhancements:
.IP 17. \w'00.\(em'u
.B IGN_DM_ERROR
defines whether or not to ignore DM frames received, when the connection is in
ERROR state.
The value is \*(lq\fB1\fP\*(rq for true; \*(lq\fB0\fP\*(rq, for false.
The default value is false.
.IP 18.
.B SABM_IN_X32
defines the action to take when a SABM is received in X.32 setup.
The value is \*(lq\fB1\fP\*(rq for true; \*(lq\fB0\fP\*(rq, for false.
The default value is false.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
Files following this format are normally kept in the
.B @configdir@/@PACKAGE@/template/
directory.
.PP
(Note that this directory varies depending on whether the build was on a
.BR dpkg (1)-based
or
.BR rpm (1)-based
system.)
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR lltune (8),
.BR lapb (4),
.BR x25netd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B lapbtemplate
file format is compatible with
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Most implementations only define the first 16 lines.  This implementation
defines 18 lines, where the first 16 lines are compatible with other
implementations and the last additional two lines are optional.
.IP \(em
.I "PT X.25"
.[
ptx25
.]
documents the \fBSABM_IN_X32\fP LAPB template field but not the
\fBIGN_DM_ERROR\fP LAPB template field.  
.I Solstice X.25
.[
solx25ag
.]
and
.I IRIS X.25
.[
sx25
.]
does not document either the \fBIGN_DM_ERROR\fP nor \fBSABM_IN_X32\fP LAPB
template fields.
.PP
For additional compatibiltiy information see,
.BR lapb (4),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B lapbtemplate
file format first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
