'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: llc2template.5.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-07-11 09:46:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-11 09:46:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: llc2template.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-07-11 09:46:28  brian
.\" - roughed in implementation, updated documentation
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-06-13 06:43:53  brian
.\" - added files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.TH LLC2TEMPLATE 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Data Structures"
.SH NAME
.B llc2template
\- Logical Link Control Type 2 File Format
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B llc2template
describes the file format for input to the
.BR lltune (8)
command for LLC2 class subnetworks.
The file format consists of a number of parameter values, one per line,
formated as described below.  Each parameter value is described using its line
number in the file, a parameter name, and a description of the format of the
value.  Only the value appears in the file, each value on a line by itself, one
value per line.
.PP
Each of the LLC2 configuration parameters corresponds to the member and values
of the
.B llc2_tune
structure, that is carried in a
.B llc2_tnioc
structure by the
.B L_LLC2TUNE
input-output control.
.PP
These protocol parameters, and the default values that exist when tuning has
not been applied to a newly created LLC2 subnetwork, correspond directly to the
protocol parameters and defaults in ISO/IEC 8802-2:1998.
.[
ISO/IEC 8802-2:1998
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The LLC2 template consists of 14 lines containing the following configuration
information.
.IP 1. \w'00.\(em'u
.B N2_VAL
is the maximum number of times that a Protocol Data Unit (PDU) is sent
following the expiry of the acknowledgement timer, the P-bit timer, or the
reject timer.  This parameter also limits the number of times an RR is sent
with the P-bit set when remote busy is true and the busy timer expires.
.IP 2.
.B T1_VAL
is the time interval during which the LLC2 expects to receive an
acknowledgement to an outstanding I-PDU or an expected response to a sent
UI-PDU.  The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.
.IP 3.
.B TPF_VAL
is the time during which the LLC2 expects to receive a PDU with the F-bit set
to 1 in response to a command with the P-bit set to 1.  The value should be
less than that specified for the akcnowledgement timer.  The value is in units
of 0.1 seconds.
.IP 4.
.B TREJ_VAL
is the time interval during which the LLC2 expects to receive a reply to a sent
REJ PDU.  The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.
.IP 5.
.B TBUSY_VAL
is the timer interval during which the LLC2 waits for an indication of the
clearance of busy condition at the other LLC2.  The value is in units of 0.1
seconds.
.IP 6.
.B TIDLE_VAL
is the time interval during which the LLC2 expects to receive a PDU from the
other LLC2.  The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.
.IP 7.
.B ACK_DELAY
is the RR delay time.  This is the time interval for which the LLC2 will
withhold acknowledgements of unacknowledged received I-PDUs.  The value is in
units of 0.1 seconds.
.IP 8.
.B NOTACK_MAX
is the maximum number of unacknowledged received I-frames.
.IP 9.
.B TX_WINDOW
is the transmit window (if no XID received).
.IP 10.
.B TX_PROBE
is the position before the window is closed at which an I-PDU is sent with the
P-bit set to solicit an acknowledgement from the receiver.
.IP 11.
.B MAX_I_LEN
is the maximum size of an LLC2 I-frame.  LLC2 requires all incoming I-frames
above a certain size to be rejected by a FRMR.  This parameter specifies the
maximum size of data that may bereceived starint from the LLC2 protocol header.
.RS
.PP
In an X.25 network, it is constructed as (maximum X.25 data length + X.25
protool header length + LLC2 protocol header length).  In an SNA network, it
is constructed as (maximum SNA data length + SNA request header length + SNA
transmission header length + LLC2 protocol header length).
.RE
.IP 12.
.B XID_WINDOW
is the XID window size (receive window), when the remote window size is unknown
or zero.
.IP 13.
.B XID_NDUP
is the duplicate MAC XID count (0 means no test).
.IP 14.
.B XID_TDUP
is the duplicate MAC XID time.
The value is in units of 0.1 seconds.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
Files following this format are normally kept in the
.B @configdir@/@PACKAGE@/template/
directory.
.PP
(Note that this directory varies depending on whether the build was on a
.BR dpkg (1)-based
or
.BR rpm (1)-based
system.)
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR lltune (8),
.BR llc2 (4),
.BR x25netd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B llc2template
file format is compatible with
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.I "PT X.25"
.[
ptx25
.]
does not support LLC2.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supports LLC2 in support of XOL and porting applications from
.IR AIXlink/X.25 ,
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.IR "VxWorks" ,
.IR "pSOS" ,
.IR "SpiderX.25" ,
and many other implementations based on
.I "SpiderX.25"
support LLC2.
Portable X.25 and XOL applications will use
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
instead of
.IR "PT X.25" .
.IP \(em
.PP
For additional compatibiltiy information see,
.BR llc2 (4),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B llc2template
file format first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI


