'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mfeprotoconf.5.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-06-13 06:43:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-06-13 06:43:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mfeprotoconf.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-06-13 06:43:54  brian
.\" - added files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.TH MFEPROTOCONF 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Data Structures"
.SH NAME
.B mfeprotoconf
\- Multi-Protocol over Frame Relay Encapsulation Protocol File Format
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B mfeprotoconf
describes the file format for input to the
.BR mfeproto (8)
command for Multiprotoocl over Frame Relay Encapsulation by subnetwork.  The
file format consists of a number of paraemter values, one per line, formatted as
described below.  Each parameter value is described using its line number in the
file, a parameter name, and a description of the format of the value.  Only the
value appears in the file, each value on a line by itself, one value per line.
.PP
Each of the MFE protoocl configuration parameters corresponds to the member and
values of the
.B mfe_proto
structure, that is carried in a
.BR MFE_PADD ", " MFE_PGET " or " MF_PDEL
intpu-output control.
.PP
These protocol parameters, and the default values that exist when tuning has not
been applied to a newly created MFE subnetwork, correspond directly to the
protocol parameters and defaults of RFC 2427,
.[
rfc2427
.]
X.36 Annex D,
.[
x36
.]
and FRF 3.2.
.[
frf32
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The MFE subnetwork template consists of 7 or more lines containing the following
configuration information:
.IP 1. \w'00.\(em'u
.B MINPDUSZ
Specifies the minimum frame size that will be delivered to the MFE user for this
protocol encapsulation.  The value must be less than or equal to the maximum
DLSDU size for the corresponding subnetwork.  This value should not be shorter
than the shortest demultiplexing string, as described for lines 5 through 7.
The value is a decimal number in units of octets.
.IP 2.
.B ENCAPS
Specifies the encapsulation header that will be prepended to all outgoing
frames.  Note that the encapsulation header does not include padding applied to
the Frame Relay headers.  The value is an even-length string of hexadecimal
characters.
A zero length string can be indicated by two dashes (\*(lq\fB--\fP\*(rq) or an empty line.
.IP 3.
.B RETAIN
Specifies whether or not to retain the encapsulation on received frames when
deliverying received frames to the MPE user.  The default for all subnetworks is
\*(lq\fBN\fP\*(rq.  The value of this parameter can be one of the following:
.RS
.TS
tab(:);
cb1c1l.
N:\-:trim encapsulation header
Y:\-:leave encapsulation header intact
.TE
.RE
.IP 4.
.B COUNT
Provides a count (from zero (0) to three (3)) of the strings that will be used
for demultiplexing received packets from the subnetwork.  The value is a decimal
number in the range from 0 to 3 and also specifies the number of lines in the
configuration file following this one that are significant.
.IP 5.
.B DEMUX1
Specifies the first demultiplexing string.  \fBCOUNT\fP must be greater than or
equal to 1 for this parameter to be significant.
The value is an even-length string of hexadecimal digits.
A zero length string can be indicated by two dashes (\*(lq\fB--\fP\*(rq) or an empty line.
.IP 6.
.B DEMUX2
Specifies the second demultiplexing string.  \fBCOUNT\fP must be greater than or
equal to 2 for this parameter to be significant.
The value is an even-length string of hexadecimal digits.
A zero length string can be indicated by two dashes (\*(lq\fB--\fP\*(rq) or an empty line.
.IP 7.
.B DEMUX3
Specifies the third demultiplexing string.  \fBCOUNT\fP must be greater than or
equal to 3 for this parameter to be significant.
The value is an even-length string of hexadecimal digits.
A zero length string can be indicated by two dashes (\*(lq\fB--\fP\*(rq) or an empty line.
.PP
The following lines are extensions:
.IP 8. \w'00.\(em'u
.B DEMUX4
Additional demultiplexing strings can be specified, allowing \fBCOUNT\fP to
exceed three (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
Files following this format are normally kept in the
.B @configdir@/@PACKAGE@/template/
directory.
.PP
(Note that this directory varies depending on whether the build was on a
.BR dpkg (1)-based
or
.BR rpm (1)-based
system.)
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mfeproto (8),
.BR mfe (4),
.BR x25netd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B mfeprotoconf
file format is compatible with
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
For additional compatibiltiy information see,
.BR mfeproto (8),
.BR mfe (4),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B mfeprotoconf
file format first appeared in
.IR "Spider Frame Relay" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI


