'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mfetemplate.5.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-06-13 06:43:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-06-13 06:43:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mfetemplate.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-06-13 06:43:54  brian
.\" - added files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.TH MFETEMPLATE 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Data Structures"
.SH NAME
.B mfetemplate
\- Multi-Protocol over Frame Relay Encapsulation File Format
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B mfetemplate
describes the file format for input to the
.BR mfevc (8)
command for Frame Relay subnetworks and virtual circuits.
The file format consists of a number of parameter values, one per line,
formated as described below.  Each parameter value is described using its line
number in the file, a parameter name, and a description of the format of the
value.  Only the value appears in the file, each value on a line by itself, one
value per line.
.PP
Each of the MFE configuration parameters corresponds to the member and values
of the
.B mfe_config
structure, that is carried in a
.BR MFE_ADD ", " MFE_GET " or " MFE_REMOVE
input-output control.
.PP
These protocol parameters, and the default values that exist when tuning has
not been applied to a newly created MFE subnetwork and circuit, correspond directly to the
protocol parameters and defaults in RFC 2427,
.[
rfc2427
.]
X.36 (Annex D),
.[
x36
.]
FRF 3.2
.[
frf32
.]
and FRF 12.
.[
frf12
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
.PP
The MFE subnetwork circuit template consists of 4 or more lines containing
the following configuration information:
.IP 1. \w'00.\(em'u
.B ADDRLEN
The length in octets of the DLCI (unless provided by the underlying device
driver).  The address length is used to calculate padding requirements (e.g.
whether to pad NLPID with a leading 0x00 octet).
.IP 2.
.B MAXSDU
The maximum DLSDU size (unless provided by the underlying device driver and
the value of the underlying driver is less than this ammount).
This value is used to decide when to fragment outgoing PDUs and may be less
than or equal to the maximum DLSDU size of the underlying driver.
FRF.12 Section 7:
.[
frf12
.]
\*(lqThis IA does not recommend any specific fragment size.  The fragment size is
configured in the transmitter, and the two peer transmitters need not use the
same fragment size.\*(rq  Some considerations should be given for specific size
when ATM interworking is used.
The default is the maximum DLSDU size for the underlying driver.
.IP 3.
.B MAXPDU
The maximum size of a PDU reassembled from fragments.  If a PDU is greater
than this size, the PDU will be discarded per FRF.12
.[
frf12
.]
Section 6.2: \*(lqIn the event of an error (e.g., one or more fragments lost
due ... reassembly buffer overflow), fragments which cannot be reconstructed
back into the original frame must be discarded by the receiver.\*(rq
The default is 32768.
.IP 4.
.B FRGSEQ
is the initial sequence number to use for fragmentation per FRF.12
.[
frf12
.]
Section 6.1:
\*(lqThe first fragment sent on a VC (following the VC becoming active) may have
the sequence number set to any value (including zero), and the sequence number
must subsequently be incremented by one for each fragment sent.\*(rq
Zero (0) specifies that a random number is to be chose when the VC is
activated or attached.  Zero (0) is the default for new VCs.
.PP
The following lines are enhancements:
.IP 5. \w'00.\(em'u
.B FRAGTYPE
specifies the fragementation type per FRF.12
.[
frf12
.]
as follows:
.RS
.TS
tab(:);
n1c1l.
0:\-:End-to-end Fragmetation
1:\-:UNI/NNI Fragmentation
2:\-:NNI/NNI Fragmentation
.TE
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
Files following this format are normally kept in the
.B @configdir@/@PACKAGE@/template/
directory.
.PP
(Note that this directory varies depending on whether the build was on a
.BR dpkg (1)-based
or
.BR rpm (1)-based
system.)
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mfevc (8),
.BR mfe (4),
.BR x25netd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B mfetemplate
file format is compatible with
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
For additional compatibiltiy information see,
.BR mfevc (8),
.BR mfe (4),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B mfetemplate
file format first appeared in
.IR "Spider Frame Relay" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI


