'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: qosformat.5.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-05-03 11:42:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-05-03 11:42:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: qosformat.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-03 11:42:28  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.TH QOSFORMAT 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Data Structures"
.SH NAME
.B qosformat
\- X.25 Quality of Service format structure
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR "Network Layer Interface (NLI)" ,
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
.B #include <netx25/x25_proto.h>

#define MAX_PROT 32

struct qosformat {
    unsigned char reqtclass;
    unsigned char locthroughput;
    unsigned char remthroughptut;
    unsigned char reqminthruput;
    unsigned char locminthru;
    unsigned char remminthru;
    unsigned char reqtransitdelay;
    unsigned short transitdelay;
    unsigned char reqmaxtransitdelay;
    unsigned short acceptable;
    unsigned char reqpriority;
    unsigned char reqprtygain;
    unsigned char reqprtykeep;
    unsigned char reqlowprtydata;
    unsigned char reqlowprtygain;
    unsigned char reqlowprtykeep;
    unsigned char lowprtydata;
    unsigned char lowprtygain;
    unsigned char lowprtykeep;
    unsigned char protection_type;
    unsigned char prot_len;
    unsigned char lowprot_len;
    unsigned char protection[MAX_PROT];
    unsigned char lowprotection[MAX_PROT];
    unsigned char reqexpedited;
    unsigned char reqackservice;
    struct extraformat xtras;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The fields in this structure are defined as follows:
.TP
.IR reqtclass ", " locthroughput ", " remthroughptut
Nonzero if the throughput negoitation parameter is selected.  The fields
.IR locthroughput " and " remthroughput
contain the four-bit throughput encoding for local-to-remote and
remote-to-local, respectively.
.TP
.I reqminthruput ", " locminthru ", " remminthru
.I reqminthruput
is non-zero if the minimum throughput negotiation parameter is selected.  In
this case, the fields
.IR locminthru " and " remminthru
contain the four-bit throughput encoding for the directions local-to-remote
and remote-to-local, respectively.
.TP
.IR reqtransitdelay ", " transitdelay
In connect requests and indications,
.I reqtransitdelay
is non-zero if the transit delay parameter is selected.  In this case,
.I transitdelay
contains the 16-bit value.  In a connect confirmation, the value of the
selected transit delay is placed in the
.I transitdelay
field and is non-zero.
.TP
.IR reqmaxtransitdelay ", " acceptable
If the calling NLI application specifies a maximum acceptable value for the
transit delay parameter (lowest quality acceptable), the field
.I reqmaxtransitdelay
is nonzero and
.I acceptable
contains the 16-bit value of the maximum acceptable transit delay.
.RS
.IP \fBNote:\fP \w'\fBNote:\fP\(em'u
Transit delay selection applies only to connect requests.  There is no transit
delay QOS parameter in a connect response.  The corret response when the
indicated QOS is unattainable is to make a disconnect request.  In a
connection confirmation, the value of the selected transit delay is placed in
the
.I transitdelay
field when such negotiation takes place.
.RE
.TP
.IR reqpriority ", " reqprtygain ", " reqprtykeep ", " reqlowprtydata ", " reqlowprtygain ", " reqlowprtykeep ", " lowprtydata ", " lowprtygain ", " lowprtykeep
The
.I reqpriority
field is used to requeset or indicate priority on a connection.  The mandatory
field
.I prty_data
contains the 8-bit value for the priority of data on the connection.  The
.IR reqprtygain " and " reqprtykeep
fields can be optionally set to indicate that the fields
.IR prty_gain " and " prty_keep
contain the 8-bit values for the prioirty to gain and keep a connection.
.RS
.PP
On N-CONNECT requests, the calling NS User can also specify a lowest
acceptable value for prioirty.  The fields
.IR reqloqprtydata ", " reqlowprtygain " and " reqlowprtykeep
can be set to indicate that the fields
.IR lowprtydata ", "  lowprtygain " and " lowprtykeep
contain the 8-bit values for the lowest acceptable priority of data on
connection, to gain a connection, and to keep a connection.
.RE
.TP
.IR protection_type ", " prot_len ", " lowprot_len ", " protection ", " lowprotection
If the protection negotiation parameter is selected, the
.I protection_type
is nonzero and indicates the type of protection required.  In this case the
mandatory fields
.IR prot_len " and " protection
contain the length and value for the target protection.  On N-CONNECT
requests, the calling NS User can optionally specify a lowest acceptable
protection.  In this case, the fields
.IR lowprot_len " and " lowprotection
contain the length and value for the lowest acceptable protection.  Values for
.I protection_type
are as follows:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lblblb
llbl.
Value:Name:Meaning
_
1:PRT_SRC:Source addresss specific.
2:PRT_DST:Destination address specific.
3:PRT_GLB:Globally unique
_
.TE
.RE
.TP
.I reqexpedited
If expedite data is required or selected, the field
.I reqexpedited
is non-zero.  For connect indications, a value of one
.RB ( 1 )
implies that the expedited data negotation facility was present in the
incoming call packet, and that it use was requested.
.RS
.PP
.IP \fBNote:\fP \w'\fBNote:\fP\(em'u
Negotiation is a CONS procedure.  When the facility is present and indicates
non-use, use cannot be negotiated by connect response.  For a description of
the use of the
.I CONS_call
field in connect request and connect responses, see
.BR N_CI "(7) and
.BR N_CC "(7).
.PP
For incoming or outgoing non-CONS calls (denoted by the
.I CONS_call
flag set to zero
.RB ( 0 )),
expedited data negotiation is not reuiqred\(eminterrupt data is always
available in X.25.  This means that this field is ignored on Connect Requests
and Responses from non-CONS calls.
.RE
.TP
.I reqackservice
If the receipt acknowledgement service is to be used, the field
.I reqackservice
is non-zero.  Setting
.I reqackservice
to one
.RB ( 1 )
signifies receipt confirmation by the remote DTE.  Setting
.I reqackservice
to two
.RB ( 2 )
signifies receipt confirmation by the remote application.
.RS
.PP
In the case of receipt confirmation by the remote DTE, no acknowledgements are
expected or given over the X.25 interface.  In the case of receipt
confirmation by the remote application, there is a one-to-one correspondence
between D-bit data and acknowledgements, with one data acknowledgement being
received or sent for each D-bit data packet sent or received over the X.25
interface.
.RE
.TP
.I xtras
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Negotiable X.25 facilities are supported by the PLP driver.  This section
describes the request and negotiation of these facilities, and the data
structures used by the NLI primitives.  The facility can be broken down into
two groups: those required for Connection Oriented Network Service (CONS)
support and those for non-OSI procedures (X.29, for example).
.PP
The CONS QOS parameters are describe in this manual page, and the non-OSI QOS
parameters are described in the
.BR extraformat (5)
manual page.
.PP
The CONS quality of service (QOS) parameters support the following:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Throughput Class
.IP \(bu
Minimum Throughput Class
.IP \(bu
Target Transit Delay
.IP \(bu
Maximum Acceptable Transit Delay
.IP \(bu
Use of Expedited Data
.IP \(bu
Protection
.IP \(bu
Priority
.IP \(bu
Receipt Acknowledgement
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH CONTEXT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH MT-CONTEXT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The Network Layer Interface (NLI) is a proprietary interface without a formal
standard.  Either the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
or the XTI-X25 interface,
.[
xx25
.]
.BR xti_x25 (3),
should be used in its stead.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
The
.B qosformat
structure is defined in the
.RB < netx25/x25_proto.h >
file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR extraformat (5),
.BR NLI (7),
.IR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B qosformat
structure is compatible with NLI, and implementations based on NLI such as
.IR "Solaris Solstice" \(rg " X.25 9.2" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
.IR "IRIX SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX X.25/9000" ,
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
with the following considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR "Solaris Solstice" \(rg " X.25 9.2" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
.IR "IRIX SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
are consistent in their documentation of the
.B qosformat
structure.
.IP \(em
NLI is an inherently low level and non-portable interface and should not be
used by portable programs.  Portable programs should use the NPI or XX25
interfaces in its stead.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted: only a rough source compatibility.  Any
binary compatibility exhibited is a bug and is scheduled to be removed in the
next release.
.PP
See
.BR NLI (7),
.IR STREAMS (4),
for additional compatiblity considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The NLI is not a formal standard.  The
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of NLI conforms to documentation for Version 3 of the NLI.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The NLI is an interface originally developed by Spider Systems, Ltd. (now a
division of Emmerson Power).  The NLI interface found its way into may
mainstream UNIX implementations and UNIX-like RTOS sporting STREAMS such as
Windriver's VxWorks.  The NLI was never standardized and remains an inherently
non-portable interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of X.25.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
