'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strx25.5.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-05-07 16:01:38 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-05-07 16:01:38 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strx25.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-07 16:01:38  brian
.\" - added NLI X.25-PLP CONS and XX25 implemetnation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.TH STRX25 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Packages"
.SH NAME
.B @PACKAGE@
\- @PACKAGE_TITLE@ Package
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This is the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.RB ( @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ )
package for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
lfs
.]
.PP
OpenSS7
.I STREAMS
add-on packages are separate add-on packages to the
.B "Linux Fast-STREAMS"
.[
lfs
.]
release that provide additional functionality and protocol support not
traditionally found on UNIX base systems, or which have traditionally fallen
into the domain of value-add system software, or, in this case, where the
functionality was optional or differently handled in a number of
implementations.  The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package is one of several optional add-on packages that provide enhanced
.I STREAMS
support beyond that provided by the base
.I STREAMS
packages.  This package provides support for network protocols, not provided
by the base
.I STREAMS
package.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package provides
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers, libraries, programs, initialization scripts, and daemons
that implement the
.IR "ITU-T Recommendation X.25" ,
.[
x25
.]
.IR "ISO/IEC 8208" ,
.[
iso 8208
.]
and
.IR "ISO/IEC 8881" ,
.[
iso 8881
.]
data links, networks, interfaces and applications.
.PP
The package currently provides the following
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers:
.TP
.BR x25-lapb (4)
.TP
.BR x25-plp (4)
.TP
.BR npi (4)
.TP
.BR xx25 (4)
.PP
The package builds and installs the following shared object libraries:
.TP
.B libsx25 (3)
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package includes kernel modules,
.I SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
.I STREAMS
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons and development
environment for the development and execution of
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
protocol stack components and applications for the
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
environment.
.PP
This distribute is only currently applicable to
.BR "Linux 2.4" " and " 2.6
kernels and was targetted at
.IR ix86 ", " x86_64 ", " ppc " and " ppc64
archictures, but should build and install for other architectures supported by
the Linux kernel as well.
.PP
This package is currently incomplete.  It is being released as a reference
point for the community.  If you are interested in completion of this package,
contact
.RB < info@openss7.com >.
.\"
.\"
.SH PACKAGE CONTENTS
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.RB ( @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ )
package contains the following manual pages:
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package provides the following
.I STREAMS
modules:
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package provides the following
.I STREAMS
drivers:
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package provides the following
.I STREAMS
devices:
.\"
.\"
.SH PREREQUISITES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package requires the following packages to be installed:
.TP \w'\fBstrcompat\fP(5)\(em'u
.BR streams (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
base package,
.BR strss7-@LFS_VERSION@ .
.TP
.BR strcompat (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
compatiblity modules package.
.TP
.BR strxns (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
X/Open Networking Services package.
.TP
.BR strxnet (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
XTI/TLI Library package.
.TP
.BR strnsl (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
Network Selection Library package.
This package is optional.
.TP
.BR strsock (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
STREAMS Sockets Library package.
This package is optional.
.TP
.BR strchan (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
Channel Drivers package.
This package is optional.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although previous release of the
.B @PACKAGE@
package were tested with
.IR LiS ,
.I LiS
is not deprecated and this release
.RB ( @VERSION@ )
of
.B @PACKAGE@
has not been tested with
.IR LiS .
.I The OpenSS7 Project
will no longer support this package for
.IR LiS ;
please upgrade to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package has known and unknonw defects.  This is a
.I pre-alpha
release.  Some defects might be harmful.  No validation testing whatsoever has
been performed by the
.I OpenSS7 Project
on this software.  The software might not even configure or compile.  The
.I OpenSS7 Project
recommends that you do not use this software.  Use at your own risk.  Remember
that there is
.BR "NO WARRANTY" .
(See section
.RI \(lq "NO WARRANTY" \(rg
under the
.RI \(lq "GNU Affero General Public License" \(rq,
in the manual.)
.PP
This software is
.I pre-alpha
software.  As such, it will crash your kernel.  Installation of the software
will irreparably mangle your header files or Linux distribute in such a way as
to make it unusable.  Crashes will lock your system and rebooting the system
will not repair the problem.  You will lose all the data on your system.
Because this software will crash your kenrel, the resulting unstable system
can destroy computer hardware or peripherals making them unusable.  You will
void the warranty on any system on which you run this software.
.BR "YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED" .
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package is compatible with a wide array of production
.B Linux
distributions, kernels, and target architectures, but is considered
.I pre-alpha
grade by
.IR "The OpenSS7 Project" .
At the time of rlease, the
.B @PACKAGE@
package had no known bugs.  Problems or development request can be reported to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
Please, however, use the included
.BR send-pr (1)
script for generating actionable problem reports or development requests.
Please see the file
.RI \(lq PROBLEMS \(rq
in the release for problem reporting guidelines.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR @PACKAGE@_mknod (8),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.PP
Note that, although the modules and drivers provided in the
.B @PACKAGE@
package support the operation of OSI CONS over X.25 as specified in
.IR "ISO/IEC 8878 (X.223)" ,
.[
x223
.]
and the Subnetwork Address Resolution Entity (SNARE) as specified in
.IR "ISO/IEC 10030" ,
.[
iso 10030
.]
these additional modules necessary to support CONS are provided in the
.BR striso (5)
package.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package is compatible with
.I SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
and X.25 implementations on systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
such as
.IR "Solaris" \(tm " Solstice X.25",
.[
solx25dg
.]
.[
solx25ug
.]
.[
solx25pg
.]
.IR "SGI IRIX" \(rg " SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "AIX" \(rg " AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package provides compatibility with all implementations of the X.25 Protocol
suite using the
Network Layer Interface (NLI),
.[
sx25
.]
.BR nli (7),
Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
X/Open Transport Interface X.25 (XX25),
.[
xx25
.]
.BR xti_x25 (3),
specifications.
.IP \(em
These drivers are designed to operate with the XTI/TLI library implementation
provided by the
.BR strxnet (5)
package and is thus compatible with most XTI library implementations as well.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR DLPI ,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR NLI ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR NPI ,
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR XTI ,
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.IR "XNS 5.2" ,
.[
xns 5.2
.]
.IR XX25 ,
.[
xx25
.]
.IR UNIX95 ,
.IR UNIX98 .
.[
susv2
.]
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-x25 (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The contents of the
.B @PACKAGE@
package were formerly part of the
.BR strss7 (5)
package and then the
.BR striso (5)
package.  As of
.BR @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ ,
the X.25 components were moved out of the
.BR striso (5)
package into this
.BR @PACKAGE@ (5)
package.  This package now contains all of the X.25 protocol components
released by
.IR "The OpenSS7 Project" ,
along with associated documentation.
.PP
In the initial release of the
.BR strx25 (5)
package, only X.25 modules and drivers that have been fully revalidated on
.BR Linux Fast-STREAMS
were initially released.  The remaining components present on the CVS archive
and formerly part of the commercial
.BR striso (5)
releases, will be publicly released in released subsequent to
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
as they are revalidated.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATUS
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TILE@
package is
.I production
grade on
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
for the modules drivers included in the public release.  Not all OpenSS7
Project X.25 modules and drivers have been included in the release
distribution.  The OpenSS7 project is in the process or revalidating all
project modules and drivers for use on
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
As a result, additional release components will be strapped into the package
and once full validation test suites are developed and run against each
component.
.PP
In particular, the following modules and drivers are currently missing format
the public release.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
