'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: x25_primitives.5.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-05-03 11:42:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-05-03 11:42:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: x25_primitives.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-03 11:42:28  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.TH X25_PRIMITIVES 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Data Structures"
.SH NAME
.B x25_primitives
\- X.25 Primitives union
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR "Network Layer Interface (NLI)" ,
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
.B #include <netx25/x25_proto.h>

union x25_primtives {
    struct xcallf xcall;      /* Connect Request/Indication */
    struct xccnff xccnf;      /* Connect Confirm/Response */
    struct xdataf xdata;      /* Normal, Q-bit, or D-bit data */
    struct xdatacf xdatac;    /* Data ack */
    struct xedataf xedata;    /* Expedited data */
    struct xedatacf xedatac;  /* Expedite data ack */
    struct xrstf xrst;        /* Reset Request/Indication */
    struct xdiscf xdisc;      /* Disconnect Request/Indication */
    struct xdncff xdncf;      /* Disconnect Confirm */
    struct xabortf xabort;    /* Abort Indication */
    struct xlistenf xlisten;  /* Listen Command/Response */
    struct xcanlisf xcanlis;  /* Cancel Command/Response */
    struct pvcattf pvcatt;    /* PVC Attach */
    struct pvcdetf pvcdet;    /* PVC Detach */
};

typdef struct xhdrf {
    unsigned char xl_type;    /* XL_CTL/XL_DAT */
    unsigned char xl_command; /* Command */
} S_X25_HDR;

\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
Following are the members of the
.B x25_primitives
union:
.TP \w'\fIxlisten\fP\(em'u
.I xcall
Connect Request/Indication
.PD 0
.TP
.I xccnf
Connect Confirm/Response
.TP
.I xdata
Normal, Q-bit, or D-bit data
.TP
.I xdatac
Data ack
.TP
.I xedata
Expedited data
.TP
.I xedatac
Expedite data ack
.TP
.I xrst
Reset Request/Indication
.TP
.I xdisc
Disconnect Request/Indication
.TP
.I xdncf
Disconnect Confirm
.TP
.I xabort
Abort Indication
.TP
.I xlisten
Listen Command/Response
.TP
.I xcanlis
Cancel Command/Response
.TP
.I pvcatt
PVC Attach
.TP
.I pvcdet
PVC Detach
.PD
.PP
Following are the members of the
.BR xhdrf
structure:
.PP
.TP
.I xl_type
The command type: this is one of the following:
.RS
.TP
.B XL_CTL
The message is a control message.
.PD 0
.TP
.B XL_DAT
The message is a data memssage.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I xl_command
Identifies the subcommand: this can be one of the following:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lblbslb
lilslb.
NLI Command:X.25 Packet:NLI Structure
_
N_Abort:Abort Indication:xabortf
N_CC:Call Response/Confirm:xccnff
N_CI:Call Request/Indication:xcallf
N_DAck:Data Ack. Request/Ind.:xdatacf
N_Data:Data:xdataf
N_DC:Clear Confirm:xdcnff
N_DI:Clear Request/Indication:xdiscf
N_EAck:Expedited Data Ack.:xedatacf
N_EData:Expedited Data:xedataf
N_RC:Reset Response/Confirm:xrscf
N_RI:Reset Request/Indication:xrstf
N_PVC_ATTACH:Service for PVC:pvcattf
N_PVC_DETACH:Service to stop for PVC:pvcdelf
N_Xcanlis:Cancel listening:xcanlisf
N_Xlisten:Listen for incoming calls:xlistenf
_
.TE
.PP
All of the structures listed above are defined int he
.B x25_primitives
C union.
.PP
Beyond the structures that have a one-to-one mapping with NLI commands, X.25
PLP provides some structures that are used by several commands.  These are
related to addressing,
.BR xaddrf "(5) and " lsapformat "(5),
and facilities,
.BR qosformat "(5) and " extraformat "(5),
and are described on separate manual pages.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The X.25 PLP software provides a series of data structure that that determine
the control part of messages passed across the NLI.  The format of the control
part o messages passed across the NLI is defined by structures in the
.B x25_primitives
union.
.PP
Messages to and from applications are classified as control messages or data
messages.
.I xL_type
indicates whether a message is control or data using the values
.B XL_CTL
for control and
.B XL_DAT
for data.
Within each classification, the message
identity is indicated by the
.I xl_command
qualifier.  The combination of
.I xl_type
and
.I xl_command
must be consistent.
.PP
When sending an NLI command to the X.25 PLP driver,
.BR x25-plp (4),
using
.BR putpmsg (2s),
the size of the data structure is determined by the command, and clearly is
known in advance.  The
.I .len
member of the control buffer is used to hold this value, and the
.I .maxlen
member is not used;
see,
.BR putpmsg (2s).
.PP
When reading a message with the
.BR getpmsg (2s)
call, the type of message cannot be known before it is received, so a buffer
large enough to hold any messages hould be supplied.  Put the size of the
buffer in the
.I .maxlen
member of the control buffer structure.  The actual size of the message
received will be placed in the
.I .len
member on return from the
.BR getpmsg (2s)
call.  To ensure that the buffer will be large enough, declare it as being of
type
.BR "union X25_primitives" .
