'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: x25conf.5.man,v 0.9.2.2 2009-05-03 10:54:42 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-05-03 10:54:42 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: x25conf.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2009-05-03 10:54:42  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-07-01 12:16:22  brian
.\" - added manual pages, specs and conversion modules
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-06-18 16:45:24  brian
.\" - widespread updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-06-13 06:43:54  brian
.\" - added files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.TH X25CONF 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Data Structures"
.SH NAME
.B x25conf
\- X.25 Subnetwork Configuration File Format
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The X.25 subnetwork configuration file contains configured information on all
subnetworks below the X.25 \fISTREAMS\fP multiplexing driver,
.BR x25 (4).
Each subnetwork will be one of five types:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
X.25 - LLC2 - ETH
.IP 2.
X.25 - LAPB - WAN
.IP 3.
X.25 - LAPB - STUN - IP
.IP 4.
X.25 - TCP - IP
.IP 5.
X.25 - SCTP - IP
.PP
where, WAN, LAPB, ETH and LLC2 are facilities that can be configured as
on-board or in-kernel.
.PP
Each entry in the X.25 configuration file conatins the following information:
.PP
<\fIdev\fP> <\fIbrd\fP> <\fIline\fP> <\fIsubnet\fP> <\fItype\fP> <\fIcls\fP> <\fIfile\fP> <\fIaddr\fP>
.TP
<\fIdev\fP> \fBDevice Prefix\fP
The device prefix determines to which subnetwork the entry refers and is one
of the following strings:
.RS
.TS
tab(:);
lb1c1l.
wans:-:The device is a Wide Area Network device.
ethr:-:The device is an Ethernet device.
.TE
.RE
.TP
<\fIbrd\fP> \fBBoard Number\fP
.TP
<\fIline\fP> \fBLine Number\fP
.TP
<\fIsubnet\fP> \fBSubnetwork Identifier\fP
The subnetwork identifier is a single alphabetical character providing a
logical administrator-selected descriptor for each subnetwork below the X.25
driver.  Subnetwork identifiers must be unique within each node.
.TP
<\fItype\fP> \fBNetwork Type\fP
The network type describes the particular subnetwork.  It may be one of the
following tokens:
.RS
.TS
tab(:);
lb1c1l.
LAN:-:Local Area Network
WAN80:-:Wide Area Network 1980
WAN84:-:Wide Area Network 1984
WAN88:-:Wide Area Network 1988
.TE
.RE
.TP
<\fIcls\fP> \fBClass\fP
The class describes the lower X.25 interface to a particular subnetwork and
may be one of:
.RS
.TS
tab(:);
lb1c1lssss.
LC_LLC1:-:LLC1 to the LAN.
LC_LLC2:-:LLC2 to the LAN.
LC_LAPBDTE:-:LAPB to the WAN (as a DTE).
LC_LAPBDCE:-:LAPB to the WAN (as a DCE).
LC_LAPBXDTE:-:LAPB to the WAN (as DTE), extended addressing.
LC_LAPBXDCE:-:LAPB to the WAN (as DCE), extended addressing.
LC_LAPDTE:-:LAP to the WAN (as a DTE).
LC_LAPDCE:-:LAP to the WAN (as a DCE).
.TE
.RE
.TP
<\fIfile\fP> \fBStack File\fP
The stack file refers to an appropriate configuration file for this particular
subnetwork.  It may be one of two types: XLB or XLC.  An XLB file contains the
names of an X.25 configuration file, \fBx25template\fP(5), or LAPB
configuration file, \fBlapbtemplate\fP(5) and a WAN configuration file,
\fBwantempate\fP(5) for WAN subnetworks.  An XLC file contains the names of an
X.25 configuration file, \fBx25template\fP(5), and an LLC2 configuration file,
\fBllc2template\fP(5), for Ethernet subnetworks.
.RS
.PP
.BR netcreate (8)
will search for these files in the \fB@configdir@/@PACKAGE@/tempate/\fP
directory.  In this directory, each file has a special suffix extension where
the suffix \*(lq\fB.XLB\fP\*(rq is for XLB type files and \*(lq\fB.XLC\fP\*(rq
is for XLC type files.
.PP
The special suffix and the path are not resent in <\fIfile\fP> as
.BR netcreate (8)
deduces them automatically.
.RE
.TP
<\fIaddr\fP> \fBAddress\fP
The Address can be one of two types.  For WAN subnetworks, it is a DTE address
(of between zero and fifteen BCD digits without TOA/NPI and between zero and
seventeen BCD digits with TOA/NPI) and for ISO 8802 subnetworks, it is a
string of sixteen hexadecimal digits.  This ISO 8802 string is the
concatentation of a twelve digit MAC address, a two digit local SAP and a two
digit loop SAP.  Each ISO 8802 board has a factry assigned MAC address and if
the administrator wishes to use this address then the first twelve digits of
the address must be zeros.  In any case, the two SAPs must be non-zero, even
and different from each other.
.PP
Any token in an entry may be a question mark, \*(lq\fB?\fP\*(rq, meaning
\*(lq\fInot configured\fP.\*(rq  If an entry contains such a token, then the
entire entry will be ignored by
.BR netcreate (8).
.PP
A \*(lq\fB#\fP\*(rq indicates the beginning of a comment; characters up to the
end of the line are not interpreted by routintes that search the file.
.PP
The administrator is advised to edit this file using the
.B x25config
option in
.BR x25adm (8)
only, as this performs necessary consistency checks on each entry in the file.
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
