'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: xaddrf.5.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-05-03 11:42:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-05-03 11:42:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: xaddrf.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-03 11:42:28  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.TH XADDRF 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Data Structures"
.SH NAME
.B xaddrf, x25addr
\- X.25 Address Format Structure
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR "Network Layer Interface (NLI)" ,
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
.B #include <netx25/x25_proto.h>

#define NSAPMAXSIZE 20

#ifdef _SUN_SOURCE
struct xaddrf {
    uint32_t link_id;
    unsigned char aflags;
    struct lsapformat DTE_MAC;
    unsigned char nsap_len;
    unsigned char NSAP[NSAPMAXSIZE];
};
#else
struct xaddrf {
    unsigned long sn_id;
    unsigned char aflags;
    struct lsapformat DTE_MAC;
    unsigned char nsap_len;
    unsigned char NSAP[NSAPMAXSIZE];
};
#endif
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The members of the
.B xaddrf
structure are as follows:
.TP
.I sn_id
The subnetwork identifier, selected by the system administrator.  It
identifies the subnetwork required for a conenction request, or on which a
connection indication arrived.  The
.I sn_id
field holds a representation of the one to four byte string subnetwork
identifier as an unsigned long integer.  The X.25 library routine
.BR snidtox25 (3)
can be used to convert the character subnetwork identifier to an unsigned long
integer.
.TP
.I link_id
Holds the link number as 32-bit unsigned integer.  By default
.I link_id
has a value of
.BR 0xff .
WHen
.I link_id
is
.BR 0xff ,
the X.25 provider attempts to match the called address with an entry in a
routing configuration file.  If it cannot find a match, it routes the call
over the lowest numbered WAN link.
.TP
.I aflags
Specifies the options required (or used) by the subnetwork to encode and
interpret addresses.
When there is a valud in the
.I NSAP
field,
.I aflags takes one of the three values listed below.  When the
.I NSAP
field is empty,
.I aflags
has the value zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.I aflags
takes one of the following values:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lblblbss
lilblss.
Symbol:Value:Meaning
_
NSAP_ADDR:0x00:T{
NSAP field contains OSI-encoded NSAP address.
T}
EXT_ADDR:0x01:T{
NSAP field contains non-OSI-encoded extended address.
T}
PVC_LCI:0x02:T{
NSAP field contains a PVC number.
T}
_
.TE
.RE
.TP
.I DTE_MAC
The DTE address, or LSAP as two BCD digits per byte, right justified, or the
.B PVC_LCI
as three BCD digits with two digits per byte, right justified.
Holds the DTE address, the MAC plus SAP (Medium Access Control plus Service
Access Point) address on the LCI.  This is binary.  The
.BR lsapformat (5)
structure is described separately.
.TP
.I nsap_len
The length in semi-octets of the NSAP as two BCD digits per byte, right
justified.
.TP
.I NSAP
The NSAP or address extension (see
.IR aflags )
as two BCD digits per byte, right justified.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B xaddrf
structure is the primary structure used for defining X.25 addresses for the
Network Layer Interface (NLI),
.BR nli (7).
In call requests and responses, it is necessary to specify the X.25 address
associated with the connection: the called, calling and responding addresses.
The
.B xaddrf
structure is used for these addresses.  The addresing format used by this
structure provides the following information:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
The subnetwork on which outgoing connection requests are to be sent and on
which connection indications arrive.
.IP \(bu
NSAP (Network Service Access Points) and SNPA (Subnetwork Point of
Attachments), or DTE (Data Terminal Equipment) addresses and LSAP (Link
Service Access Points).
.IP \(bu
Options in encoding of addresses (NSAP).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH CONTEXT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH MT-CONTEXT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The Network Layer Interface (NLI) is a proprietary interface without a formal
standard.  Either the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
or the XTI-X25 interface,
.[
xx25
.]
.BR xti_x25 (3),
should be used in its stead.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
The
.B xaddrf
structure is defined in the
.RB < netx25/x25_proto.h >
file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR stox25 (3),
.BR x25tos (3),
.BR lsapformat (5),
.BR gethostent (3),
.BR NLI (7),
.IR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B xaddrf
structure is compatible with NLI, and implementations based on NLI such as
.BR "Solaris Solstice" \(rg " X.25 9.2" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
.BR "IRIX SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.BR "HP-UX X.25/9000" ,
.BR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
with the following considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR "Solaris Solstice" \(rg
.[
solx25pg
.]
describes the first field as the
.I link_id
and it is a 32-bit unsigned integer.
.IR "IRIX SX.25" \(rg
.[
sx25
.]
and
.IR "PT X.25"
.[
ptx25
.]
describe the first field as the
.I sn_id
and it is an unsigned long integer (which is 32-bit on IL32 and 64-bit on
LP64).
To avoid performing data model conversion between user space and kernel
modules,
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
makes the first member of the
.B xaddrf
structure an 32-bit unsigned integer.
.IP \(em
.IR "IRIX SX.25" \(rg
.[
sx25
.]
and
.IR "PT X.25"
.[
ptx25
.]
do not document symbolic constants for the values of the
.I aflags
member.
.IP \(em
NLI is an inherently low level and non-portable interface and should not be
used by portable programs.  Portable programs should use the NPI or XX25
interfaces in its stead.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted: only a rough source compatibility.  Any
binary compatibility exhibited is a bug and is scheduled to be removed in the
next release.
.PP
See
.BR NLI (7),
.IR STREAMS (4),
for additional compatiblity considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The NLI is not a formal standard.  The
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of NLI conforms to documentation for Version 3 of the NLI.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The NLI is an interface originally developed by Spider Systems, Ltd. (now a
division of Emmerson Power).  The NLI interface found its way into may
mainstream UNIX implementations and UNIX-like RTOS sporting STREAMS such as
Windriver's VxWorks.  The NLI was never standardized and remains an inherently
non-portable interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of X.25.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
