'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: test-tcpc.8.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-29 08:49:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 08:49:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: test-tcpc.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-29 08:49:50  brian
.\" - updated headers for Affero release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2007/03/12 09:47:09  brian
.\" - rationalized across packages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/03/12 09:33:19  brian
.\" - boosted default test port numbers from 10000 to 18000
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/04/05 09:42:55  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sctp.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sctp.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TEST-TCPC 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B test-tcpc, test-tcps
\- client and server TCP test programs
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP
\fBtest-tcpc\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBtest-tcpc\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBtest-tcpc\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBtest-tcpc\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.HP
\fBtest-tcps\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBtest-tcps\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBtest-tcps\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBtest-tcps\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These commands are client
.RB ( test-tcpc )
and server
.RB ( test-tcps )
programs for transferring test data between server and client.  These programs are written in the
same fashion as a pair of test programs for both
.BR tcp (7)
and
.BR udp (7)
that are documented in the
.BR test-sctpc (8),
.BR test-sctps (8),
.BR test-udpc (8)
and
.BR test-udps (8)
manual pages.
The purpose of this set of 6 programs is to perform comparison tests between SCTP, TCP and UDP.
.PP
When the server
.RB ( test-tcps )
is started, it listens on a specified port number (or port
.B 18000
if no port number is specified) for incoming connections.  When a connection arrives, as a result of
the client
.RB ( test-tcpc )
being started, the server polls for received packets and sends them back to their source.
.PP
Then the client
.RB ( test-tcpc )
is started, it connects to a specified port number (or port
.B 18000
if no port number is specified) and beings sending data at a specified length as fast as possible.
.PP
Both the server
.RB ( test-tcps )
and the client
.RB ( test-tcpc )
report the number of bytes transmitted on an interval
.RB ( 1
second if not specified).
Both programs run continuously until they are killed.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
These commands do not take non-option arguments.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The following options are applicable to both
.B test-tcpc
and
.BR test-tcps :
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--loc_host\fR \fIADDRESS\fR
Specify the local host (bind address).  The default is
.BR 0.0.0.0 .
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--port\fR \fIPORTNUM\fR
Specify the port number.  For
.B test-tcpc
this is the remote port number to which to connect.  For
.B test-tcps
this is the local port number to which to bind.
The default is
.BR 18000 .
.TP
\fB-w\fR, \fB--length\fR \fILENGTH\fR
Specify the \fILENGTH\fR of sent messages in bytes.  The default is
.BR 64 .
.TP
\fB-n\fR, \fB--nagle\fR
Suppress Nagle's algorithm.
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--rep_time\fR \fIINTERVAL\fR
Specify the report time \fIINTERVAL\fR in seconds.  The default is
.BR 1 .
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Suppress normal output.  This option is equivalent to \fB--verbose\fR=\fI0\fR.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fILEVEL\fR]
Increase or set (to \fILEVEL\fR) the output verbosity.  This option may be repeated.  If not
specified, the verbosity level is
.BR 1 .
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B command
displays usage information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B command
displays version information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B command
displays copying information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.\"
.SS test-tcpc Options
.PP
The following options are applicable only to
.BR test-tcpc :
.TP
\fB-r\fR, \fB--rem_host\fR \fIADDRESS\fR
Specify the remote host (connect address).  The default is
.BR 127.0.0.2 .
.\"
.SS test-tcps Options
.PP
The following options are applicable only to
.BR test-tcps :
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When an error occurs,
.B test-tcpc
and
.B test-tcps
will print a diagnostic message to
.I stderr
and exit with a non-zero exit code.
Errors result from an error of a system call on the TCP socket, or an error in the option arguments
passed to the command.  The exit status will be
.B 1
in the case of a socket error and
.B 2
in the case of a option argument error.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
These are crude programs and were only used for adhoc checkout testing.  They will be eventually
dropped from the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
release.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
At one terminal type:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1
test-tcps -l 127.0.0.2 -p 18000 -w 64 -n -t 5
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
to start the server program.  In another terminal type:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1
test-tcpc -r 127.0.0.2 -p 18000 -w 64 -n -t 5
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
Each command will display the number of bytes and messages sent and a total count of the number of
bytes and messages sent every 5 seconds.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/libexec/sctp/test-tcpc
The
.B test-tcpc
test program.
.TP
.B /usr/libexec/sctp/test-tcps
The
.B test-tcps
test program.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tcp (7),
.BR test-sctpc (8),
.BR test-sctps (8),
.BR sctp (7),
.BR test-udpc (8),
.BR test-udps (8),
.BR udp (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
These test programs do not function very well and will often hang.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
See
.BR sctp (7),
.BR tcp (7)
and
.BR udp (7),
for addiitonal compatibiltiy considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
Many of these test programs were new for Linux 2.2.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
rfc2960
.]
.[
rfc1122
.]
.[
rfc3309
.]
.[
rfc3168
.]
.[
rfc3758
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
