@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: funding.texi,v 0.9.2.1 2005/07/07 23:38:38 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
@c Copyright (C) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2005/07/07 23:38:38 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

As with most open source projects, this project would not have been possible without the valiant
efforts and productive software fo the @cite{Free Software Foundation} and the @cite{Linux Kernel
Community}.

@menu
* Sponsors::			Sponsors
* Contributors::		Contributors
@end menu

@node Sponsors
@unnumberedsec Sponsors
@cindex sponsors

Funding for completion of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package was provided in part by:

@itemize
@item OpenSS7 Corporation
@end itemize

@noindent
Additional funding for The OpenSS7 Project was provided by:

@itemize
@item OpenSS7 Corporation
@item Lockheed Martin
@item Performance Technologies
@item Motorola
@item HOB International
@item Comverse
@item Sonus Networks
@item France Telecom
@item SS8 Networks
@item Nortel Networks
@item Verisign
@end itemize

@node Contributors
@unnumberedsec Contributors
@cindex contributors

The primary contributor to the OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package is
@email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}.  The following is a list of significant
contributors to The OpenSS7 Project:

@itemize
@item Per Berquist
@item John Boyd
@item Chuck Winters
@item Peter Courtney
@item Tom Chandler
@item Gurol Ackman
@item Kutluk Testicioglu
@item Others
@end itemize
