'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: cci_h225.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2006/12/28 05:23:35 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/12/28 05:23:35 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: cci_h225.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/12/28 05:23:35  brian
.\" - corrections for make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/17 11:56:21  brian
.\" - copied files into new packages from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:19  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strvoip.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strvoip.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH CCI-H225 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CCI-H225
\- Call Control Interface \- Corregendum for H.225 Conformance
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/cci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/h225i.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/h225i_ioctl.h>
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " h225_stream " = open (" \fR/dev/h225\fI ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This Corrigendum describes the formats and rules that are specific to ITU-T
Recommndation H.225.0.  The Corrigendum must be used along with the generic
Call Control Interface
.RB ( cci (7))
as defined in the main document when implementing a CCS provider that will be
configured with the H.225.0 call processing layer.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Primitives and Rules for H.225.0 Conformance
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following are the rules that apply to the CCI primitives for H.225.0
compatability.
.SH "CALL CONTROL ADDRESSES"
.PP
The format of the call control address for H.225.0 conforming CCS providers is
as follows:
.\"
.\"
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct h225_addr {
    ulong scope;    /* the scope of the identifier */
    ulong id;	    /* the identifier within the scope */
    ulong port;     /* port number */
} h225_addr_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I scope
conveys the scope of the call control address.  See
.IR \*(lqScope\*(rq ,
below.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I id
conveys the indentifier within the
.IR scope .
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Scope
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.I scope
of the address is one of the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B H225_SCOPE_CT
.\"
.\"
Conveys that the
.I scope
of the call control address is an H.245 transport address.  The
.I id
within this
.I scope
is an IPv4 address which uniquely identifies a reliable signalling channel
for carrying the H.245 LCN 0 control for the call.
.I port
indicates the IP port number.
.sp
An H.245 transport address corresponds to a specific reliable control channel
to a transport hosts.  Transport connections can be grouped by the host to
which they connect.
.sp
H.245 transport addresses are identified using an IP address and port number
within the CCS provider.  Addresses specifying all of the RTP streams
controlled by a H.245 control stream are specified with
.I scope
.B H225_SCOPE_CT
and the H.245 transport address (IP address in
.I id
and IP port number in
.IR port ).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B H225_SCOPE_TP
Conveys that the
.I scope
of the call control address is a transport connection.  The
.I id
within this
.I scope
is an identifier which uniquely identifies a reliable signalling channel for a
given call.
.sp
A transport connection corresponds to a specific reliable signalling channel
to a transport host.  Transport connections can be grouped by the host to
which they connect.
.sp
Transport connections are identified using a unique identifier within the CCS
provider.  Addresses specifying all of the RTP streams controlled by a
signalling transport connection are specified with
.I scope
.B H225_SCOPE_TP
and the transport connection
.IR id .
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B H225_SCOPE_EP
Conveys that the
.I scope
of the call control address is an H.323 endpoints.  The
.I id
within this
.I scope
is an identifier which uniquely identifies a transport endpoint (host).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B H225_SCOPE_ZN
Conveys that the
.I scope
of the call control address is an H.323 Endpoint zone.  The
.I id 
within this
.I scope
is an identifier which uniquely identifies a group of H.323 endpoints all
belonging to the same zone.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B H225_SCOPE_EG
Conveys that the
.I scope
of the call controll address is an H.225 equipment group.  The
.I id
within this
.I scope
is an identifier than uniquely identifies the equipment group to the CCS
provider.
.sp
An equipment group is a group of all transport addresses terminating at the
same location.  For Terminal mode, this corresponds to all the transport
addresses terminating at the same network provider complex.  For
Gateway/Gatekeeper mode this corresponds to all the transport addresses
terminating on the same customer site.
.sp
Equipment groups are identified using a unique equipment group identifier
within the CCS provider.  Addresses specifying all of the transport addresses
making up an equipment group are specified within
.I scope
.B H224_SCOPE_EG
and the equipment group
.IR id .
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B H225_SCOPE_XG
Conveys that the
.I scope
of the call control address is an exchange group.  The
.I id
within the
scope is an identifier that uniquely identifies the exchange group to the CCS
provider.
.sp
A exchange group has a different interpretation on the H.323 Terminal and
Gateway/Gatekeeper side of the call control interface.  In Terminal mode, the
provider group is a group of all zones which are serviced by the same network
provider.  In Gateway/Gatekeeper mode, the customer group is a group of all
equipment groups to which the same service is provided to the same customer by
the network.
.sp
Exchange provider groups are identified using a unique exchange group
identifier within the CCS provider.  Addresses specifying all of the equipment
groups is an exchange group are specified with
.I scope
.B H225_SCOPE_XG
and the exchange group
.IR id .
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B H225_SCOPE_DF
Conveys that the
.I scope
of the call control adress is the default scope.  The
.I id
within the
.I scope
is unused and should be ignored by the CCS user and will be coded zero (0) by
the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Rules
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for scope:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
In primitives in which the address parameter occurs, the
.I scope
field setting indicates the scope of the address parameter.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
Only one call control address can be specified within a single
.IR scope .
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
Not all scopes are necessarily supported by all primitives.  See the
particular primitive, below.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for addresses:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The address contained in the primitive contains the following:
.\"
.\"
.RS
.\"
.IP \(bu 3
A
.IR scope .
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu
An identifier within the
.I scope
or zero (0).
.\"
.RE
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the
.I scope
of the address is
.BR H225_SCOPE_DF ,
then the
.I id
and
.I port
fields should be coded zero (0) and will be ignored by the CCS user or
provider.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the
.I scope
of the address is
.BR H225_SCOPE_EP ,
then the
.I port
field should be coded all zeros (0) and will be ignored by the CCS user or
provider.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
In all other scopes, the
.I port
number is optional and coded zero (0) if unused.
.\"
.\"
.SH "OPTIONAL PARAMETERS"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Format
.\"
.\"
.PP
The format of the optional parameters for H.225.0 conforming CCS providers is
as follows:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Parameters
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_opt_length
Conveys the length of the optional parameters associated with the primitive.
For H.225.0 conforming CCS providers, the format of the optional parameters is
the format Information Elements of the H.225.0 message (including the tag and
length octets) as specified in H.225.0.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_opt_offset
Conveys the offset of the optional parameters from the beginning of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Rules
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for optional parameters:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The optional parameters provided by the CCS user may be checked for syntax by
the CCS provider.  If the CCS provider discovers a syntax error in the format
of the optional parameters, the CCS provider should respond with a
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with error
.RB [ CCBADOPT ].
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
For some primitives, specific optional parameters might be interpreted by the
CCS provider and alter the function of some primitives.  See the specific
primitive descriptions layer in this Corrigendum.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
Except for optional parameters interpreted by the CCS provider as specified
later in this Corrigendum, the optional parameters are treated as opaque and
the optional parameter lis is only checked for syntax.  Opaque parameters will
be passed to the H.225 message without examination by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
To perform specific functions, additional mandatory or optional parameters ma
be added to the H.225 message by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
To perform specfic functions, optional parameters may be modified by the CCS
provider before being added to the H.225 message.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Service Primitives"
.PP
.PP
.B "Local Management Primitives"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_INFO_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_INFO_ACK\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_BIND_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_BIND_ACK\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_OPTMGMT_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_OPTMGMT_ACK\fR(7):T{
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Call Setup Primitives"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_SETUP_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_SETUP_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_SETUP_RES\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_SETUP_CON\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_CALL_REATTEMPT_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_SETUP_COMPLETE_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_SETUP_COMPLETE_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Continuity Check Primitives"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_CONT_CHECK_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_CONT_CHECK_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_CONT_TEST_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_CONT_TEST_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_CONT_REPORT_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_CONT_REPORT_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Call Establishment Primitives"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_MORE_INFO_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_MORE_INFO_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_INFORMATION_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_INFORMATION_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_INFO_TIMEOUT_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_PROCEEDING_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_PROCEEDING_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_ALERTING_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_ALERTING_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_PROGRESS_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_PROGRESS_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Call Established Primitives"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_SUSPEND_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_SUSPEND_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_SUSPEND_RES\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_SUSPEND_CON\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_SUSPEND_REJECT_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_SUSPEND_REJECT_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_RES\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_CON\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_REJECT_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_REJECT_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Supplementary Services Primitives
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_FACILITY_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_FACILITY_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_HOLD_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_HOLD_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_HOLD_RES\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_HOLD_CON\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_RETRIEVE_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_RETRIEVE_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_RETRIEVE_RES\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_RETRIEVE_CON\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_REGISTER_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_REGISTER_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Call Termination Primitives"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_REJECT_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_CALL_FAILURE_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_DISCONNECT_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_DISCONNECT_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_RELEASE_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_RELEASE_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Management Primitives"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_RESTART_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_RESET_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RESET_IND\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RESET_RES\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RESET_CON\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_BLOCKING_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_BLOCKING_IND\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_BLOCKING_RES\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_BLOCKING_CON\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_UNBLOCKING_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_UNBLOCKING_IND\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_UNBLOCKING_RES\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_UNBLOCKING_CON\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_QUERY_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_QUERY_IND\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_QUERY_RES\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_QUERY_CON\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Maintenance Primitives"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_MAINT_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7),
.BR bssap (4),
.BR gsma (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bssapi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bssapi_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/bssap .
.\"
.\"
.\".SH VERSIONS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
h225
.]
.[
h323
.]
.[
h245
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
