'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: cci_sipt.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/05/07 18:38:48 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/05/07 18:38:48 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: cci_sipt.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/05/07 18:38:48  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/17 11:56:21  brian
.\" - copied files into new packages from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:43:19  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strvoip.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strvoip.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CCI-SIPT 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CCI-SIPT
\- Call Control Interface \- Corrgendum for SIP-T Conformance
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/cci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sipt.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sipt_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " sipt_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/sipt\fI ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This Corrigendum describes the formats and rules that are specific to SIP-T.
.[
siptrfc
.]
The Corrigendum must be used along with the generic CCI as defined in the main
document when implementing a CCS provider that will be configured with the SIP-T
call processing layer.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Primitives and Rules for SIP-T Conformance"
.PP
The following are the rules that apply to the CCI primitives for SIP-T
compatibility.
.\"
.\"
.SS "CALL CONTROL ADDRESSES"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Format"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The format of call control addresses is as follows:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I "cc_addr_length:"
Specifies or indicates the length of the call control address.  If a call
control address is not included in the primitive, this parameter must be coded
zero (0).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I "cc_addr_offset:"
Specifies or indicates the offset of the address from the begining of the
primitive.  If a call control address is not included with the primitive, this
parameter must be coded zero (0).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Address Format"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The format of the call control addresses for Q.764 conforming CCS providers is
as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct sipt_addr {
} sipt_addr_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Address Fields"
.\"
.\"
.SS "OPTIONAL PARAMETERS"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Format"
.\"
.\"
.PP
The format of the optional parameters for SIP-T conforming CCS providers is as
follows:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I "cc_opt_length:"
Specifies or indicates the length of the optional parameters associated with
the primitive.  For SIP-T conforming CCS providers, the format of the optional
parameters is the format of the Optional Headers as specified in SIP-T.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I "cc_opt_offset:"
Specifies the offset of the optional parameters from the beginning of the
block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for optional parameters:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The optional parameters provided by the CCS user may be checked for syntax by
the CCS provider.  If the CCS provider discovers a syntax error in the format
of the optional parameters, the CCS provider should respond with a
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with error
.RB [ CCBADOPT ].
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
For some primitives, specific optional parameters might be interpreted by the
CCS provider and alter the function of some primitives.  See the specific
primitive descriptions later in this Corrigendum.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Except for optional parameters interpreted by the CCS provider as specified
later in this Corrigendum, the optional parameters are treated as opaque and
the optional parameter list is only checked for syntax.  Opaque parameters
will be passed to the SIP message without examination by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
To perform specific functions, additional optional parameters may be added to
SIP-T messages by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
To perform specific functions, optional parameters may be modified by the CCS
provider before being added to SIP-T messages.
.\"
.\"
.SH "Local Management Primitives"
.PP
.SS CC_INFO_ACK
.SS CC_BIND_REQ
.SS CC_BIND_ACK
.SS CC_OPTMGMT_REQ
.SH "Call Setup Primitives"
.PP
.SS CC_SETUP_REQ
.SS CC_SETUP_IND
.SS CC_SETUP_RES
.SS CC_SETUP_CON
.SS CC_CALL_REATTEMPT_IND
.SS CC_SETUP_COMPLETE_REQ
.SS CC_SETUP_COMPLETE_IND
.SH "Continuity Check Phase"
.PP
.SS CC_CONT_CHECK_REQ
.SS CC_CONT_CHECK_IND
.SS CC_CONT_TEST_REQ
.SS CC_CONT_TEST_IND
.SS CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ
.SS CC_CONT_REPORT_IND
.SH "Call Establishment Primitives"
.PP
.SS CC_MORE_INFO_REQ
.SS CC_MORE_INFO_IND
.SS CC_INFORMATION_REQ
.SS CC_INFORMATION_IND
.SS CC_INFO_TIMEOUT_IND
.SS CC_PROCEEDING_REQ
.SS CC_PROCEEDING_IND
.SS CC_ALERTING_REQ
.SS CC_ALERTING_IND
.SS CC_PROGRESS_REQ
.SS CC_PROGRESS_IND
.SS CC_IBI_REQ
.SS CC_IBI_IND
.SH "Call Established Primitives"
.PP
.SS CC_SUSPEND_REQ
.SS CC_SUSPEND_IND
.SS CC_SUSPEND_RES
.SS CC_SUSPEND_REJECT_REQ
.SS CC_RESUME_REQ
.SS CC_RESUME_IND
.SS CC_RESUME_RES
.SS CC_RESUME_REJECT_REQ
.SH "Call Termination Primitives"
.PP
.SS CC_REJECT_REQ
.SS CC_CALL_FAILURE_IND
.SS CC_DISCONNECT_REQ
.SS CC_RELEASE_REQ
.SS CC_RELEASE_IND
.SH "Management Primitives"
.PP
.SS CC_RESTART_REQ
.SS CC_RESET_REQ
.SS CC_RESET_IND 
.SS CC_RESET_RES
.SS CC_RESET_CON
.SS CC_BLOCKING_REQ
.SS CC_BLOCKING_IND
.SS CC_BLOCKING_RES
.SS CC_BLOCKING_CON
.SS CC_UNBLOCKING_REQ
.SS CC_UNBLOCKING_IND
.SS CC_UNBLOCKING_RES
.SS CC_UNBLOCKING_CON
.SS CC_QUERY_REQ
.SS CC_QUERY_IND
.SS CC_QUERY_RES
.SS CC_QUERY_CON
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/cci_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

