'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: adjmsg.9.man,v 1.1.4.5 2006/04/05 09:42:43 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:42:43 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: adjmsg.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:43  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH ADJMSG 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B adjmsg, lis_adjmsg
\- trim bytes from the front or back of a \fISTREAMS\fR message
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int adjmsg(mblk_t *" mp ", ssize_t " len );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I mp
a pointer to the
.I STREAMS
initial message block representing the message to adjust.
.TP
.I len
the number of bytes to trim and the direction from which to trim.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR adjmsg ()
trims
.RI abs( len )
bytes from a
.I STREAMS
message pointed to by
.IR mp .
.PP
If
.I len
is less than zero,
.BR adjmsg ()
will trim bytes from the head of the message.
.PP
If
.I len
is greater than zero,
.BR adjmsg ()
will trim bytes from the tail of the message.
.PP
If
.I len
is zero,
.BR adjmsg ()
succeeds but does nothing.
.PP
During the trimming process, blocks are trimmed by advancing the
.I b_rptr
for head trims
.RI ( len "> 0), or ,
decreasing the
.I b_wptr
for tail trims
.RI ( len "< 0),
by the number of bytes trimmed from the block.  If an entire block is trimmed
(its
.I b_rptr
meets its
.IR b_wptr ),
the block is not removed from the chain, but is left as a zero length block.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR adjmsg ()
is typically used to trim headers and footers off of protocol messages on the
read side of a 
.I STREAMS
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR adjmsg ()
trims the requested number of bytes from the head or tail of the message and
returns true (1).
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR adjmsg ()
returns false (0),
and the passed in message remains unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If
.I mp
is a null pointer,
.I len
is greated that the message size, or if the bytes to trim crosses message blocks of
differing types,
.BR adjmsg ()
will fail and return false (0).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR adjmsg ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR adjmsg ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller must ensure exclusive access to the passed in
message,
.IR mp .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Note that
.BR adjmsg ()
will not fail due to allocation errors.  Failures depend only on the
characteristics of the passed in message referenced by
.I mp
and the provided
.IR len .
.PP
If the passed in length,
.IR len ,
is zero,
.BR adjmsg ()
will not alter the passed in message and will return true (1).
.PP
Any message blocks that are completely trimmed by
.BR adjmsg ()
are not removed from the message, but have their
.IR b_wptr 's
set to their
.IR b_rptr 's;
that is, the length of the data they contain is set to zero (0).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR msgpullup (9),
.BR pullupmsg (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR adjmsg ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR adjmsg ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
does not free zero length message blocks created or encountered during the
trimming process, and returns success (1) when
.I len
is zero (0).
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdoc
.]
does nothing if
.I len
is zero.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
may free zero length message blocks created or encountered during the trimming process.
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
does not free zero length message blocks encountered during the trimming
process.
.PP
For a fully functional and compatible
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR adjmsg ()
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
