'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: allocq.9.man,v 1.1.4.4 2005/04/08 22:40:45 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/04/08 22:40:45 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so lis.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH ALLOCQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B alloq, lis_allocq
\- allocate a \fISTREAMS\fR queue pair
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.B queue_t *allocq(void);
.HP 8
.BI "queue_t *lis_allocq(const char *" name );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I name
the name of the queue to allocate.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Allocate a new
.BR NULL -initialized
queue pair.
Queue pairs allocated with
.BR allocq ()
can be freed with
.BR freeq (9).
.PP
Queue pairs allocated with
.BR allocq ()
will have no putp, srvp, open or close procedures associated with either
queue, will have zero maximum and minimum packet sizes and high and low water
marks; and will have no synchronization queues associated with the queue pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.BR allocq ()
returns the newly allocated queue pair as a pointer to the
read queue of the pair,
.BR lis_allocq ()
take as the
.I name
argument, a name to associate with the queue structure for debugging purposes.
.IR q .
.BR allocq ()
returns
.B NULL
on failure.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR allocq ()
returns
.B NULL
on failure.
.BR allocq ()
fails when the queue pair cannot be allocated.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR allocq ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR allocq ()
is MP-safe.  The caller has exclusive access to the returned queue pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although this function is documented in
.IR STREAMS ,
it is not normally called
directly by
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers.
.PP
The
.B LiS
version
.[
LiS
.]
of this function does not have the same declaration as the SVR 4.2 STREAMS
.[
svr42
.]
version.
.PP
This function should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR freeq (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR allocq ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR allocq ()
is compatible with SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR allocq ()
should not be called by normal
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers and is implementation specific.
.IP \(em
This function is not exported by
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI " or
any other UNIX directly.
.PP
For a fully functional
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR allocq ()
is compliant with the description of the internal
.BR allocq ()
function in SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
as described in
.IR "\*(lqThe Magic Garden\*(rq" .
.[
magic
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR allocq ()
is an internal
.I "SVR 4"
.I STREAMS
function described in
.IR "\*(lqThe Magic Garden\*(rq" .
.[
magic
.]
.PP
.BR lis_allocq ()
is no longer an exported function as of LiS-2.18.0.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
