'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: allocb_physreq.9.man,v 1.1.4.4 2005/04/08 22:40:45 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/04/08 22:40:45 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so lis.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH ALLOCB_PHYSREQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B allocb_physreq, lis_allocb_physreq
\- allocate a \fISTREAMS\fR message and data block
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "mblk_t *allocb_physreq(int " size ", unsigned int " priority ", void *" physreq_ptr );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I size
the size of the message buffer to allocate.
.TP
.I priority
the priority of the allocation request.
.TP
.I physreq_ptr
a pointer to a physical request structure describing the extra characteristics requested for the
allocated buffer.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
allocates a message block and a data block of the requested
.IR size " and " priority
subject to the memory constraints specified by the structure indicated by
.IR physreq_ptr .
.PP
If the requested
.I size
is less than the
.I STREAMS
constant
.B FASTBUF
then a data block of size
.B FASTBUF
will be created.
If the requested
.I size
is larger than the
.I STREAMS
constant
.B FASTBUF
then a data block of size
.I size
will be created.
.PP
The
.I priority
can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP 12
.B BPRI_LO
The caller requests a low priority message buffer.
.TP 12
.B BPRI_MED
The caller requests a medium priority message buffer.
.TP 12
.B BPRI_HI
The caller requests a high priority message buffer.
.RE
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
accepts a pointer
.I phsyreq_ptr
to a physical request structure providing the memory constraints on the
resulting data block is provided as an argument.  If
.I physreq_ptr
is
.BR NULL ,
calling
.BR allocb_physreq ()
returns the identical result as would a call to
.BR allocb (9).
.PP
The allocated message block will have a data block type of
.BR M_DATA .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR allocb_physreq ()
will
return a pointer,
.IR mp ,
to the allocated message block.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR allocb_physreq ()
will
return a
.B NULL
message pointer,
.IR mp .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When an error occurs,
.BR allocb_physreq ()
will return a
.B NULL
message pointer
.IR mp .
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
will only fail if there is insufficient memory to allocate the necessary
datastructures for the message block, data block or data buffer subject to the
specified memory constraints.
.PP
Failure to allocate a message block is typically followed by a call to
.BR bufcall (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
is MP-safe.  The caller has exclusive access to the returned message.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
is a
.IR UnixWare \(rg-specific
function.
.BR allocb_physreq ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and, despite the description above, ignores the
.I physreq_ptr
argument.
.PP
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should not use
.BR allocb_physreq ().
To control the physical requirement of the memory allocated, allocate the
memory using a suitable kernel memory allocator (such as
.BR kmalloc (9)
or
.BR get_freepages (9)
with suitable
.I gpf_flags
such as
.BR GFP_DMA )
and then use
.BR esballoc (9)
to allocate the message block.
.PP
As with other post-SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
.[
svr42
.]
compliant
.I STREAMS
implementations,
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
ignores the
.I priority
argument to
.BR allocb_physreq ().
The message block
.I priority
was an SVR 3
.[
svr3
.]
concept which was found not to be useful, primarily due to
priority inversion.
For a history of the
.I priority
mechanism and a discussion as to why the mechanism was abandonned in
SVR 4.2,
.[
svr42
.]
see \*(lqThe Magic Garden.\*(rq
.[
magic
.]
.PP
Despite the description above,
.BR allocb_physreq ()
is not implemented in
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
and results in a simple call to
.BR allocb (9)
with the argument
.I physreq_ptr
being ignored.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR freeb (9),
.BR freemsg (9),
.BR bufcall (9),
.BR esbbcall (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
In the function prototype for
.BR allocb_physreq (),
the
.I size
argument should be of type
.B size_t
instead of
.BR int ;
and the
.I physreq_ptr
agument should be of type
.B physreq_t
pointer, instead of
.B void
pointer.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
is source level compatible with
.IR UnixWare \(rg
with the following considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Despite the description above,
.BR allocb_physreq ()
is not specially implemented and results in a simple call to
.BR allocb (9)
with the argument
.I physreq_ptr
being largely ignored.
.IP \(em
.I STREAMS
modules relying on
.BR allocb_physreq ()
should consider the following aspects of
.B Linux
memory allocation: (1) allocations are always aligned to the next largest
power of 2 boundary greater than the requested size; (2) allocations of
greater than a page size result in contiguous memory allocations; (3)
allocations of greater than a page size are aligned to a page boundary.
.IP ""
Unfortunately,
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
hides some memory pointers at the beginning of the allocated area which
completely destroys
.B Linux
allocation characteristics for the data buffer, rendering this function useless under
.B LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
.IP \(em
This function is not provided by
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
nor any other
.I SVR 4
based implementation with the exception of
.IR UnixWare \(rg.
.IP \(em
.BR allocb_physreq ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR UnixWare \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR UnixWare \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structure and definitions for
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
differ from that of
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR allocb_physreq ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR UnixWare \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.  Any and all functionality provided by
.BR allocb_physreq ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
For a fully functional
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documentation.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.[
uw7spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
first appeared in
.IR UnixWare \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
