'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: allocb.9.man,v 1.1.4.5 2006/04/05 09:42:43 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:42:43 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: allocb.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:43  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH ALLOCB 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B allocb, lis_allocb
\- allocate a \fISTREAMS\fR message and data block
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *allocb(int " size ", uint " priority );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I size
the size of message buffer to allocate.
.TP
.I priority
the priority of the allocation request.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR allocb ()
allocates a message block and a data block of the requested
.IR size " and " priority .
.PP
If the requested
.I size
is less than the
.I STREAMS
constant
.B FASTBUF
then a data block of size
.B FASTBUF
will be created.
If the requested
.I size
is larger than the
.I STREAMS
constant
.B FASTBUF
then a data block of size
.I size
will be created.
.PP
The
.I priority
can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP 12
.B BPRI_LO
The caller requests a low priority message buffer.
.TP 12
.B BPRI_MED
The caller requests a medium priority message buffer.
.TP 12
.B BPRI_HI
The caller requests a high priority message buffer.
.RE
.PP
The allocated mesage block will have a data block type of
.BR M_DATA .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR allocb ()
will
return a pointer,
.IR mp ,
to the allocated message block.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR allocb ()
will
return a
.B NULL
message pointer,
.IR mp .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When an error occurs,
.BR allocb ()
will return a
.B NULL
message pointer
.IR mp .
.PP
.BR allocb ()
will only fail if there is insufficient memory to allocate the necessary
datastructures for the message block, data block or data buffer.
.PP
Failure to allocate a message block is typically followed by a call to
.BR bufcall "(9) or " esbbcall (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR allocb ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
call outs, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR allocb ()
is MP-safe.  The caller has exclusive access to the returned message.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
As with other post-SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
.[
svr42
.]
compliant
.I STREAMS
implementations, LiS
.[
LiS
.]
ignores the
.I priority
argument to
.BR allocb ().
The message block
.I priority
was an SVR 3
.[
svr3
.]
concept which was found not to be useful, primarily due to
priority inversion.
For a history of the
.I priority
mechanism and a discussion as to why the mechanism was abandonned in
SVR 4.2,
.[
svr42
.]
see \*(lqThe Magic Garden.\*(rq
.[
magic
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR freeb (9),
.BR freemsg (9),
.BR bufcall "(9), and "
.BR esbbcall (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
In the function prototype for
.BR allocb (),
the
.I size
argument should be
.B size_t
instead of
.BR int .

.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR allocb ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
and
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
deny priority requests based on two system tunable thresholds in the number
of bytes of memory allocated for
.IR STREAMS :
a low fraction above which requests of priority
.B BPRI_LO
will be refused, a medium fraction above which requests of priority
.B BPRI_MED
will be refused, and \*(lqthewall\*(rq at which all requests are refused.
.IP \(em
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfspg
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.[
suxspg
.]
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7spg
.]
.IR UXP/V \(rg
.[
uxpspg
.]
and
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
only fail allocation when the system is out of memory.
.IP \(em
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfspg
.]
introduced the
.B BPRI_WAITOK
priority level, which is not provided by
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
.BR allocb (),
and it is, therefore, not
compatibile with
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.
.[
osfspg
.]
.B BPRI_WAITOK
is normally only used by stream heads and in the
.BR qopen (9)
or
.BR qclose (9)
procedure (which run in user context).
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
documentation
says that some implementations  may fail based on priority,
.IR priority ,
but
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
doesn't.
.IP \(em
.BR allocb ()
ignores the priority mechanism described above under
.IR \*(lqNOTICES\*(rq .
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
permits implementations to decide how to use the priority argument.
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfspg
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.[
suxspg
.]
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7spg
.]
.IR UXP/V \(rg
.[
uxpspg
.]
and
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
ignore the
.I priority
argument.
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixspg
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
uses thresholds and denies buffers on the basis of priority,
.IR priority .
.PP
For a fully functional
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.I "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR allocb ()
first appeared in SVR 3 STREAMS
.[
svr3
.]
and continued in SVR 4.2 STREAMS.
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
