'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: appq.9.man,v 1.1.4.4 2005/04/08 22:40:45 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/04/08 22:40:45 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so lis.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH APPQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B appq, lis_appq
\- append a \fISTREAMS\fR message after another
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int appq(queue_t *" q ", mblk_t *" emp ", mblk_t *" nmp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue to which to append the message.
.TP
.I emp
the message after which to append the message.
.TP
.I nmp
the message to append.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR appq ()
appends the
.I STREAMS
message
.I nmp
just after the message
.I emp
already on queue
.IR q .
If there is no message after
.I emp
in the queue
.IR q ,
this has the same effect as
calling
.BR putq (9)
with
.IR nmp .
.PP
.BR appq ()
performs all of the normal
.I STREAMS
scheduler functions associated with
.BR putq (9)
including enabling of the queue,
.IR q ,
when the first message or a priority message is placed on the queue.
If queue scheduling has been disabled with
.BR noenable (9),
only priority messages will result in the queue being scheduled.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR appq ()
is an
.IR LiS -specific
function that should not be called by portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
Instead, the module or drivers should use the DDI/DKI defined
.BR insq (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR appq ()
returns true (1) and the message pointed to by
.I mp
has been appended into the queue.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR appq ()
returns false (0) and the message pointed to by
.I mp
remains unaltered.  (See
.RI \*(lq BUGS ,\*(rq
below.)
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR appq ()
fails, it returns false (0).
.BR appq ()
fails if any of
.IR q ", " emp " or " nmp
is
.BR NULL ,
or if
.I q
is not
.BR NULL ,
but does not point to a valid queue structure;
the queue assocaited with the passed in queue pointer
.I q
has flags
.BR QCLOSING " or " QPROCSOFF
set indicating that the queue is closing or has had put and service processing
turned off (e.g. with
.BR qprocsoff (9)).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR appq ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR appq ()
is not MP-safe.
.BR appq ()
would be MP-safe, if the caller could ensure exclusive access to the passed in
messages and queue.
.PP
On uniprocessor systems it may be sufficient to block interrupts to ensure
exclusive access to
.IR q .
Ensuring exclusive access to the passed in message,
.IR emp ,
is difficult on SMP systems, because 
.BR putq "(9), " putbq (9) " and " insq (9)
can change
.I emp->b_next
and
.BR getq "(9), " flushq "(9), " flushband "(9) and " rmvq (9)
can change
.IR emp ,
(e.g. remove it from the queue).
.PP
Normally, exclusive access to the passed in queue on both UP and SMP systems can be ensured most
easily by freezing the stream associated with
.I q
using
.BR freezestr (9).
Otherwise, it is also possible to ensure exclusive access with
.BR MPSTR_STRLOCK (),
.BR MPSTR_QLOCK (),
.BR qwriter (),
.BR streams_put (),
or with appropriate synchronization boundaries
.RB ( STR_PERQUEUE " or " D_MTPERQ ).
However,
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
only has a broken
.BR freezestr (9),
subsequent to version 2.18.0,
and the other facilities metioned are not implemented in
.B LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
This makes
.BR appq ()
unusable on MP systems in
.BR LiS .
.PP
This is similar to the synchronization necessary for use of
.BR insq (9)
and
.BR rmvq (9),
which are equally unusable on MP systems under
.BR LiS .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR appq ()
is implemented with a call to
.BR insq (9).
\fB\)appq(\fI\)q\fB\), \fI\)emp\fB\), \fI\)nmp\fB\))\fR
is functionally equivalent to
\fB\)insq(\fI\)q\fB\), \fI\)emp->b_next\fB\), \fI\)nmp\fB\))\fR.
Note that,
because
.B LiS
does not protect the dereference of the
.I emp->b_next
pointer, this function is unusable on MP systems.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR insq (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR putbq (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
For versions prior to OpenSS7 release
.BR LiS-2.16.18-17 ,
.B LiS
.[
lis
.]
incorrectly frees the message pointed to by
.I nmp
when the call to
.BR appq ()
fails due to a
.B NULL
queue pointer
.IR q ,
or when the queue pointer
.I q
does not point to a valid queue structure,
or when the queue pointer
.I q
points to a queue that is closing or has processing turned off.
On the other hand,
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
does not free the message pointer pointed to by
.I nmp
when
.BR appq ()
fails because the insertion would mis-sequence the queue.
Also, for these versions of
.BR LiS ,
.BR appq ()
returns
.BR void ,
so it had an inherent buffer leak because the message pointed to by
.I nmp
could be neither freed nor placed on any queue.
This is inconsistent with
.BR insq (9)
behavior in
.B SVR 4.2 MP
.[
svr42spg
.]
and other implementations.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Beginning with OpenSS7 release version
.BR LiS-2.16.18-17
and for subsequent versions,
the message is not freed upon failure and the caller retains ownership of the
message subsequent to failure.
Also, in these versions of
.B LiS
.BR appq ()
returns
.B int
(success, true; failure, false).
This is consistent with
.BR insq (9)
behavior in
.B SVR 4.2 MP
.[
svr42spg
.]
and other implementations.
.\"
.PP
However, for all releases,
.BR appq ()
still has bugs related to
.BR qprocsoff (9)
handling in that it fails while
.BR qprocsoff (9)
is in effect or if the stream is closing.
.PP
Because
.BR appq ()
calls
.BR insq (9),
it is subject to the same bugs as
.BR insq (9).
See
.RI \*(lq BUGS \*(rq
in
.BR insq (9)
for more information.
.PP
.BR appq ()
is not MP safe.
.BR appq ()
is implemented in
.B LiS
with a call to
.BR insq (9)
without protecting a dereference of the
.I emp->b_next
pointer, making this function unusable on MP systems.
.PP
On systems that properly implement
.BR insq (9)
and
.BR freezestr (9),
a function such as
.BR appq ()
is not required.  Normally,
.BR insq (9)
must not be called on a stream that has not first been frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
Freezing the stream (in all
.I STREAMS
implementations
.B except
.BR LiS )
protect dereferences of pointers belonging to the frozen queue or messages on the frozen queue.
Therefore, to accomplish the same effect as
.BR appq ()
on a proper
.I STREAMS
implementations, one would write:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1
freezestr(q);
insq(q, emp->b_next, nmp);
unfreezestr(q);
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
Unfortunately,
.BR LiS '
broken
.BR freezestr (9)
implementation coupled with its broken
.BR insq (9)
implementation makes this impossible.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR appq ()
is compatible with
.I LiS
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR appq ()
is an
.IR LiS -specific
function.
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not call this function.
.IP \(em
.BR appq ()
called with a
.B NULL
.IR q ", " emp " or " nmp
argument, will fail silently (losing a reference to
.IR nmp ).
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not pass invalid arguments.
.IP \(em
.BR appq ()
called with a
.RB non- NULL
.I q
pointer that does not point to a valid queue structure will result in the
silent freeing of the
.I emp
message block.
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not pass invalid arguments.
.IP \(em
.BR appq ()
does not schedule the queue service procedure when a priority message is
appended to the queue.
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not rely upon the queue service procedure not being
scheduled with a priority message is appended.
.IP \(em
.BR appq ()
does not protect dereferencing of the
.I emp->b_next
pointer with the queue spin lock making it unsafe to be called concurrent
with
.BR putq (9).
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not call this function.
.IP \(em
Before OpenSS7 release
.BR LiS-2.16.18-17 ,
.BR appq ()
returned
.BR void ,
and frees the message,
.IR nmp ,
upon failure.
As of OpenSS7 release
.BR LiS-2.16.18-17 ,
.BR appq ()
returns
.BR int ,
and does not free the message,
.IR nmp ,
upon failure.
In OpenSS7 release
.BR LiS-2.18.1 ,
.BR appq ()
returns
.BR int ,
and does not free the message,
.IR nmp ,
upon failure.
.PP
For a fully functional
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR appq ()
first appeared in
.IR LiS .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
