'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: backq.9.man,v 1.1.4.6 2008-04-29 08:33:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 08:33:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: backq.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.6  2008-04-29 08:33:21  brian
.\" - update headers for Affero release
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:43  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH BACKQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B backq, lis_backq, lis_backq_fcn
\- find the upstream or downstream \fISTREAMS\fR queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "queue_t *backq(queue_t *" q );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue for which to find the upstream queue.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR backq ()
returns a pointer to the queue
which feeds messages to
.IR q .
.PP
If
.I q
references a normal read queue, then the returned queue pointer references the
downstream queue.  If
.I q
references a normal write queue, then the returned queue pointer references
the upstream queue.
.PP
If
.I q
references a FIFO read queue, then the returned queue pointer references the
FIFO write queue.  If
.I q
references a FIFO write queue, then the returned queue pointer references the
FIFO read queue.
.PP
If
.I q
references a PIPE read queue, then the returned queue pointer references the
write queue at the other end of the PIPE.  If
.I q
references a PIPE write queue, then the returned queue pointer references the
read queue at the other end of the PIPE.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR backq ()
is problematic in MP systems.
MP-safe drivers and modules should avoid using this function.
When
.BR backq ()
is absolutely necessary, it should only be called from a module procedure and
should only be passed a
.I q
belonging to the queue pair for which a module procedure is sycncrhonised.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR backq ()
returns the pointer to the resulting queue.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR backq ()
returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR backq ()
returns
.B NULL
when the specified queue,
.IR q ,
is
.BR NULL ,
the pointer
.I q
is not a pointer to a queue structure,
or there is no upstream queue for a write queue or downstream queue for a read
queue.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR backq ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR backq ()
is not MP-safe under
.B LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
The returned queue reference might no longer be valid if a push or pop of a
module has been made by the queue, or the queue has been linked under a
multiplexing driver, after return from
.BR backq ().
.PP
If the stream and queue is frozen with
.BR freezestr (9),
then the returned queue reference would normally be valid until the stream is
thawed with
.BR unfreezestr (9),
or the queue pointers are manipulated by the caller; however,
because
.B LiS
does not have a working
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR backq ()
is not MP-safe under
.B LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
will also return
.B NULL
if there is an internal error: that is, if the OTHER(q) pointer is
.BR NULL .
.PP
.BR backq (),
is obsolete.
There are no utility functions that protect dereference of the
.BI OTHERQ( q ) ->q_next
across the return from the call (such as
.I q->q_next
is protected by, for example,
.BR putnext (9)).
.BR backq (),
should not be used by portable MP-safe modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR unfreezestr (9),
.BR strqget "(9) and "
.BR strqset (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.PP
Because
.B LiS
does not have a working
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR backq ()
is not MP-safe under
.B LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR backq ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4"
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
.[
suxdoc
.]
does not document this function.
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
lists
.BR backq ()
as a function that can only be passed a queue in the queue pair currently
being synchronized within a module procedure.  See
.IR \*(lqNOTICES\*(rq ,
above.
.IP \(em
.BR backq ()
returns
.B NULL
if
.I q
points to a stream end read queue, regardless of whether a FIFO or PIPE
midpoint exists beyond
.IR q .
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdoc
.]
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
indicate that the returned pointer is
.B NULL
if
.I q
is a stream head write queue or a stream end read queue.
.IP \(em
.BR backq ()
returns
.B NULL
if
.I q
points to a stream end read queue, regardless of whether a FIFO or PIPE
midpoint exists beyond
.IR q .
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
.[
uxpdoc
.]
do not explicitly document what happens in the case of FIFOs and PIPEs, but
indicate that the queue pointer returned with that whose
.I q_next
pointer points to
.IR q .
.IP \(em
.BR backq ()
will return
.B NULL
if
.I q
is
.BR NULL .
.IP \(em
.BR backq ()
will return
.B NULL
if
.I q
is a
.RB non- NULL
pointer to a structure other than a valid
.B queue_t
structure.
.IP \(em
.BR backq ()
will fail silently and return
.B NULL
in the two situations above, and when an internal error occurs.
.PP
For a fully functional
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR backq ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
