'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: bufcall.9.man,v 1.1.4.5 2006/04/05 09:42:43 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:42:43 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: bufcall.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:43  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH BUFCALL 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B bufcall, lis_bufcall
\- install a \fISTREAMS\fR buffer callback
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int bufcall(unsigned " size ", int " priority ", void (*" function ")(long), long " arg );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP 12
.I size
The size of the requested data buffer.
.TP 12
.I priority
The priority of the requested message.  The priority can be one of the
following values:
.RS
.TP 12
.B BPRI_LO
The buffer needed is a high priority buffer.
.PD 0
.TP 12
.B BPRI_MED
The buffer needed is a medium priority buffer.
.TP 12
.B BPRI_HI
The buffer needed is a low priority buffer.
.PD
.PP
The
.I priority
argument is ignored by post-SVR 4.2 STREAMS
.[
svr42
.]
implementations.
.RE
.TP 12
.I function
The callback function to call when a buffer of the requested size and message of the
requested priority becomes available.
.TP 12
.I arg
The argument to pass to the callback function.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
When allocation of a buffer fails as a result of a failed call to
.BR allocb (9),
the service routine should
place the
.I STREAMS
message that invoked the
.BR allocb (9)
call back on the queue with
.BR putbq (9)
and call the
.BR bufcall ()
function with the queue's service routine as the
.I function
argument and a pointer to the queue as the
.I arg
argument to the call.
The
.I size
and
.I priority
arguments should be the same as the
.I size
and
.I priority
arguments that were issued to
.BR allocb (9).
.PP
In this way, the queue service routine will be recalled once there is
sufficient memory to allocate the requested buffer and message blocks.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR bufcall ()
returns true (1) and the specified
.I function
will be called with the sepcified
.I arg
at a later time when buffers of the necessary size become available.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR bufcall ()
returns false (0) and no call will be generated to the specified
.IR function .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR bufcall ()
encounters an error, it returns false (0).
.PP
.BR bufcall ()
returns false (0) when the function pointer to the callback function,
.I function
is
.BR NULL ,
or cannot allocate the necessary internal structures.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR bufcall ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR bufcall ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
implementation of
.BR bufcall ()
does not actually generate a callback function once a buffer of the
appropriate size becomes available.  Instead
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
starts a timer.  When the timer expires, the ability to allocate the necessary
buffers is checked and the callback function invoked if it is now possible to
allocate the necessary structures and buffers.
This is not entirely consistent with SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
operation.
.PP
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
builds a linked list of buffer call structures and assigns an integer id to
each structure.  Searches for unique buffer ids when ids are assigned and
searches for buffer ids when
.BR unbufcall (9)
is called are linear searches that are slow and inefficient.
In fact, \*(lqThe Magic Garden\*(rq explains that in SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
a
.BR bufcall ()
results in the creation of a
.B strevent
structure which is linked to the
.I strbcalls
system variable
and sets the
.I strbcwait
flag which is then causes
.BR kmem_free ()
to set the
.IR qrunflag .
At no point in this process is an integer id assigned to the
.B strevent
structure.  This means that
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
meaninglessly assigns an integer id to the buffer call structure and the
inefficiencies of linear searches are pointless.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR putbq (9),
.BR allocb "(9) and "
.BR unbufcall (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR bufcall ()
does not function in the same manner as described for other SVR 4.2 systems.
See
.RI \*(lq COMPATIBILITY \*(rq,
below.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR bufcall ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4"
.[
svr4spg
.]
with the folllowing portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Under
.IR LiS ,
.BR bufcall ()
does not actually generate a callback function once a buffer of the
appropriate size becomes available.  Instead
.I LiS
starts a timer.  When the timer expires, the ability to allocate the necessary
buffers is checked and the callback function invoked if it is now possible to
allocate the necessary structures and buffers.  This is not entirely
consistent with
.I SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
operation.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
.I LiS
builds a linked list of buffer call structures and assigns an integer id
to each structure.  Searches for unique buffer ids when ids are assigned and
searches for buffer ids when
.BR unbufcall (9)
is called are linear searches that are slow and inefficient.  In fact,
\*(lqThe Magic Garden\*(rq explains that in SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
a
.BR bufcall ()
results in the creation of a
.B strevent
structure which is linked to the
.I strbcalls
system variable
and sets the
.I strbcwait
flag which is then causes
.BR kmem_free ()
to set the
.IR qrunflag .
At no point in this process is an integer id assigned to the
.B strevent
structure.  This means that
.I LiS
meaninglessly assigns an integer id to the buffer call structure and the
inefficiencies of linear searches are pointless.
.IP \(em
Depending on the system,
.BR bufcall ()
returns
.BR int ", " bcid_t " or " bufcall_id_t .
.PP
For a fully functional
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR bufcall ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
