'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: canenable.9.man,v 1.1.4.5 2005/04/22 22:48:06 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/04/22 22:48:06 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so lis.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CANENABLE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B canenable, lis_safe_canenable
\- test whether a \fISTREAMS\fR message queue can be scheduled.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int canenable(queue_t *" q );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue to test whether placing a (normal) message on the queue can result in scheduling of the
queue.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR canenable ()
tests whether the queue pointed to by
.I q
can be enabled (service procedure scheduled for execution by
.BR runqueues () )
by placing a (normal) message on the queue.
.PP
This function is typically called before a call to
.BR appq (9),
.BR putq (9),
or
.BR insq (9)
when the caller wishes to determine whether
.BR appq (9),
.BR putq (9),
or
.BR insq (9)
will can result in the scheduling of the queue's service procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR canenable ()
returns true (1) if the queue pointed to by
.I q
can be enabled with
.BR appq (9),
.BR putq (9),
or
.BR insq (9),
or backenabled by the previous queue.
.PP
.BR canenable ()
returns false (0) if the queue pointed to by
.I q
cannot be enabled with
.BR appq (9),
.BR putq (9),
or
.BR insq (9),
or backenabled by the previous queue.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR canenable ()
is always successful.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR canenable ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR canenable ()
is not MP-safe.
Consideration should be given that the return may change before the condition
is tested if
.BR noenable (9),
.BR enableok (9),
.BR qprocson (9)
or
.BR qprocsoff (9)
are allowed to execute concurrent with
.BR canenable ().
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
If
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
.BR qenable ()
encounters an error, it returns false (0).
.PP
.BR canenable ()
simply returns the result of testing the
.B QNOENB
bit.
.PP
It is questionable whether
.BR canenable ()
is usable in a Multiprocessor (MP) environment.
.BR canenable ()
tests atomic flags in the
.BR queue (9)
structure flags word that can be altered by other processors immediately
prior to, or subsequent to, the call to
.BR canenable ().
Therefore, there is always a race condition possible between
.BR canenable ()
and
.BR noenable (9),
.BR enableok (9),
.BR qprocson (9),
.BR qprocsoff (9),
(or other utilities affecting the
.B QNOENB
flag in the
.BR queue (9)
flags word) on MP systems.
.PP
.BR canenable ()
might have some limited use on UP systems where interrupts can be locked out
across the call.
.PP
.BR canenable ()
should not be called by portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR putq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR appq (9),
.BR qenable (9),
.BR noenable (9),
.BR enableok (9),
.BR qprocson (9),
.BR qprocsoff (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR canenable ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR canenable ()
is compatible with
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
with the following considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
A call to
.BR canenable ()
with a
.B NULL
.I q
or with a
.RB non- NULL
.I q
that points to other than a valid
.B queue_t
structure is invalid and the result in undefined.
When LiS
.BR qenable ()
encounters such an error, it will return false (0).
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers should not call this function with invalid queue pointers.
.IP \(em
None of
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR MacOT \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR Super-UX \(rg
.IR UnixWare \(rg
or
.IR UXP/V \(rg
provide this function.
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers should not call this function.
.PP
For a fully functional
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
source code.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR canenable ()
first appeared in early versions of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
