'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: cmn_err.9.man,v 1.1.4.6 2008-04-29 08:33:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 08:33:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: cmn_err.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.6  2008-04-29 08:33:21  brian
.\" - update headers for Affero release
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:43  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CMN_ERR 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B cmn_err, lis_cmn_err
\- print a kernel command error
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/cmn_err.h>
.HP 8
.BI "cmn_err(int " err_lvl ", char *" fmt ", " ... );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I err_lvl
the error level to report.
.TP
.I fmt
a
.BR printf (3)
format string.
.TP
.I ...
the arguments to complete the format string.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR cmn_err ()
prints a command error message to kernel log files at the level specified by
.I err_lev
and with the
.BR printk ()
formatted format string
.I fmt
and associated variable arguments.
.PP
.I err_lvl
may be one of the following values:
.TP 12
.B CE_CONT
This level indicates to continue printing.
.TP 12
.B CE_NOTE
This error level is for notices.  Notices are important events which should be
logged.
This equates to a
.B KERN_NOTICE
level in
.BR Linux .
.TP 12
.B CE_WARN
This error level is for warinings.  These are critical conditions, however,
these errors do not halt the kernel.
This equates to a
.B KERN_WARNING
level in
.BR Linux .
.TP 12
.B CE_PANIC
This error level is a panic error level.  This is for highly critical errors
where the kernel has destabilized and it is necessary to halt the kernel.
.RS
.PP
When the
.I err_lvl
is specified as
.BR CE_PANIC ,
.BR cmn_err ()
will generate a
.B Linux
kernel panic with the resulting message.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Unlike
.BR printk (),
.BR cmn_err ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR cmn_err ()
fails silently when the
.I err_lvl
is invalid or formatting of the message
per
.I fmt
and the variable arguments fails.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR cmn_err ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR cmn_err ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
uses
.BR printk ()
to print the messages.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR printk ().
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR cmn_err ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR cmn_err ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4dk
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
SVR 4 systems normally print a newline at before the information provided to
.BR cmn_err ()
unless the
.B CE_CONT
flag is specified, and do not normally print a newline after the information provided to
.BR cmn_err ().
This is the opposite of BSD and Linux behavior, which print a newline at the end of the sequence
rather than the beginning.
.B LiS
can be compiled with flags providing either behavior.
.PP
For a fully functional
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI.
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR cmn_err ()
is a System V function that first appeared in SVR 2.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
