'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: insq.9.man,v 1.1.4.6 2008-04-29 08:33:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 08:33:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: insq.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.6  2008-04-29 08:33:21  brian
.\" - update headers for Affero release
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:43  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH INSQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B insq, lis_insq
\- inserts a message into a \fISTREAMS\fR message queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int insq(queue_t *" q ", mblk_t *" emp ", mblk_t *" nmp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue into which to insert the message.
.TP
.I emp
the message on the queue before which to insert the message.
.TP
.I nmp
the message to insert.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR insq ()
inserts the message pointed to by
.I nmp
before the message pointed to by
.I emp
in the queue specified by
.IR q .
If the message pointer
.I emp
is
.B NULL
it indicates that the message pointed to by
.I nmp
is to be inserted at the end of the queue.
This means that
.BI insq( q ", NULL, " nmp )
is equivalent to
.BI putq( q ", " nmp ).
.PP
Messages can be inserted before other messages only if the
resulting insertion would not violate the proper ordering of priority and
banded messages within the queue.  This means that high priority messages can
be inserted before all messages.  Low priority messages can only be inserted
before low priority messages of the same or lesser priority band.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR insq ()
returns true (1) and the message pointed to by
.I nmp
has been inserted into the queue.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR insq ()
returns false (0) and the message pointed to by
.I nmp
remains unaltered.  (See
.BR "\*(lqBUGS\*(rq" " below.)"
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR insq ()
fails, it returns false (0).
.BR insq ()
can fail because the passed in message pointer
.I nmp
is a
.B NULL
pointer;
the passed in queue pointer
.I q
is a
.B NULL
pointer;
the passed in queue pointer
.I q
does not point to a queue structure;
the queue associated with the passed in queue pointer
.I q
has flags
.BR QCLOSING " or " QPROCSOFF
set indicating that the queue is closing or has
had put and service routine
processing turned off (e.g. with
.BR qprocsoff (9)).
.PP
.BR insq ()
also fails if the message passed in by
.I nmp
cannot be inserted before the message passed in by
.IR emp .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR insq ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR insq ()
is not MP-safe.
.BR insq ()
would be MP-safe, if the caller could ensure exclusive access to the passed in
messages and queue.
.PP
On uniprocessor systems it may be sufficient to block interrupts to ensure
exclusive access to
.IR q .
Ensuring exclusive access to the passed in message,
.IR emp ,
is difficult on SMP systems, because 
.BR putq "(9), " putbq (9) " and " insq (9)
can change
.I emp->b_next
and
.BR getq "(9), " flushq "(9), " flushband "(9) and " rmvq (9)
can change
.IR emp ,
(e.g. remove it from the queue).
.PP
Normally, exclusive access to the passed in queue on both UP and SMP systems can be ensured most
easily by freezing the stream associated with
.I q
using
.BR freezestr (9).
Otherwise, it is also possible to ensure exclusive access with
.BR MPSTR_STRLOCK (),
.BR MPSTR_QLOCK (),
.BR qwriter (),
.BR streams_put (),
or with appropriate synchronization boundaries
.RB ( STR_PERQUEUE " or " D_MTPERQ ).
However,
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
only has a broken
.BR freezestr (9),
subsequent to version 2.18.0,
and the other facilities metioned are not implemented in
.B LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
This makes
.BR appq ()
unusable on MP systems in
.BR LiS .
.PP
This is similar to the synchronization necessary for use of
.BR insq (9)
and
.BR rmvq (9),
which are equally unusable on MP systems under
.BR LiS .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR putbq (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
For versions prior to OpenSS7 release
.BR LiS-2.16.18-17 ,
.B LiS
.[
lis
.]
incorrectly frees the message pointed to by
.I nmp
when the call to
.BR insq ()
fails due to a
.B NULL
queue pointer
.IR q ,
or when the queue pointer
.I q
does not point to a valid queue structure,
or when the queue pointer
.I q
points to a queue that is closing or has processing turned off.
On the other hand,
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
does not free the message pointer pointed to by
.I nmp
when
.BR insq ()
fails because the insertion would mis-sequence the queue.
Because of this bug, when
.BR insq ()
returns failure (0), it is difficult to determine whether the message
pointed to by
.I nmp
has been freed or not.
This is inconsistent with SVR 4.2 MP and other implementations.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Beginning with OpenSS7 release version
.BR LiS-2.16.18-17
and for subsequent versions,
the message is not freed upon failure and the caller retains ownership of the
message subsequent to failure.
This is consistent with SVR 4.2 MP and other implementations.
.\"
.PP
However, for all releases,
.BR insq ()
still has bugs related to
.BR qprocsoff (9)
handling in that it fails while
.BR qprocsoff (9)
is in effect or if the stream is closing.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR insq ()
is source-level compatible with SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI,
.IR Solaris \(rg
and LiS
.[
LiS
.]
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR insq ()
passed a
.B NULL
or invalid
.IR q " or " nmp
pointer will return failure (0).
.IP \(em
.BR insq ()
does not modify
.IR q " or " nmp
when it returns failure (0).  Under
.B LiS,
failure (0) modifies the
.I nmp
message, freeing it with
.BR freemsg (9)
under some circumstances.  This is an
.B LiS
bug on some versions of
.BR LiS .
No passed in structures should
be modified on failure.
.sp
On older versions,
.B LiS
incorrectly frees the message pointed to by
.I nmp
when the call to
.BR insq ()
fails due to a
.B NULL
queue pointer
.IR q ,
or when the queue pointer
.I q
does not point to a valid queue structure, or when the queue pointer
.I q
points to a queue that is closing or has processing turned off.
On the other hand, LiS does not free the message pointer pointed to by
.I nmp
when
.BR insq ()
fails because the insertion would mis-sequence the queue.  Because of this
bug, when
.BR insq ()
returns failure (0), it is difficult to determine whether the message
pointed to by
.I nmp
has been freed or not.
.IP \(em
.BR insq ()
will insert messages into a queue that has had
.BR qprocsoff (9)
called or which is closing
.RB ( qclose (9)
has been called for the queue).  Under
.BR LiS ,
.BR insq ()
will return failure (0) in these cases and free the message pointed to by
.IR nmp .
.B LiS
behaviour is incorrect for these cases.
.BR qprocsoff (9)
only affects the running of queue procedures and should not affect
.BR insq ().
.BR qclose (9)
may need to exchange messages with lower level queue pairs and manipulate
queues: making
.BR insq ()
return
.B NULL
during close is an
.B LiS
bug.
.IP \(em
.BR insq ()
will insert a message before another in the queue in any order: it is the
caller's responsibility to ensure proper ordering of the queue.
Under
.BR LiS ,
.BR insq ()
will fail and return (0), not freeing
.IR nmp ,
if the insertion would misorder the queue.
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
and
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
.[
suxspg
.]
require that a stream be frozen with
.BR freezestr (9)
for the duration of the call to
.BR insq ().
Under
.BR LiS ,
freezing a stream with
.BR LiS '
broken
.BR freezestr (9)
will have no effect on the operation of
.BR insq (9).
.PP
For a fully functional
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR insq ()
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
