'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: lis_unregister_strmod.9.man,v 1.1.4.5 2006/04/05 09:42:44 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:42:44 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: lis_unregister_strmod.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:44  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH LIS_UNREGISTER_STRMOD 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B lis_unregister_strmod
\- deregister a \fISTREAMS\fR module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int lis_unregister_strmod(struct streamtab *" strtab );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I strtab
the \fISTREAMS\fR table entry to unregister.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR lis_unregister_strmod ()
deregisters a
.I STREAMS
module previoulsy registered with
.BR lis_register_strmod (9).
.PP
.BR lis_unregister_strmod ()
removes the
.I STREAMS
module identified by
.I strtab
from all autopush lists, and removes the module from the
.I STREAMS
module switch
table.
Subsequent attempts to push the module will fail unless the module is
configured for demand loading (see
.IR "\*(lqNOTICES\*(rq" ,
below).
.PP
For demand loaded
.I STREAMS
modules,
.BR lis_unregister_strmod ()
is normally and properly called from within the
.B Linux
kernel module's
.B init_module
routine.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR lis_register_strmod ()
is provided to deregister
.I STREAMS
modules written for
.IR LiS .
.[
LiS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR lis_unregister_strmod ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR lis_unregister_strmod ()
returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR lis_unregister_strmod ()
fails, it returns the negative of one of the following errors:
.TP 12
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I strtab
does not refer to an existing registered
.I STREAMS
module.
.TP 12
.RB [ EBUSY ]
The
.I STREAMS
module indicated by
.I strtab
is currently pushed on an open stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR 
.BR lis_unregister_strmod ()
can be called from any blocking context.  Consideration for import on
performance and latency should be given before calling
.BR lis_unregister_strmod ()
from soft or hard interrupt context.  Typically,
.BR lis_unregister_strmod ()
is called from the
.BR module_exit (9)
procedure of a kernel module associated with a
.I STREAMS
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR lis_unregister_strmod ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
There are some interactions between the
demand
.B Linux
kernel module loading described in
.BR lis_register_strmod (9)
and unloading of the driver.
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
does not attempt to unload a kernel module that calls
.BR lis_unregister_strmod .
One reason for this is that
.BR lis_unregister_strmod ()
is normally called during kernel module unloading.  If the kernel module does
not unload, a subsequent attempt to
.B I_PUSH
the module by name will result in a failed attempt to reload the kernel module
\fB\)streams-\fI\)name\fB.o\fR.  (This attempt will fail because the kernel
module is already loaded.)
.PP
Therefore, demand loaded
.B Linux
kernel modules that provide
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
.I STREAMS
modules should only call
.BR lis_register_strmod (9)
from their kernel module intialization routines, and should only call
.BR lis_unregister_strmod (9)
from their kernel module cleanup routines.  See
.IR "\*(lqEXAMPLES\*(rq" ,
below.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following is an example of a
.I STREAMS
module which is dynamically registered
and deregistered from the
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
.I STREAMS
subsystem:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
\fC\s-2\
#define X_MOD_NAME "example"

int x_initialized = 0;

void x_init(void)
{
    unless(x_initialized > 0, return);
    if ((x_initialized = lis_register_strmod(&x_info, X_MOD_NAME))
        == LIS_NULL_MID) {
        cmn_err(CE_WARN, "%s: couldn't register module", X_MOD_NAME);
    }
    return;
}
void x_terminate(void)
{
    ensure(x_initialized > 0, return);
    if ((x_initialized = lis_unregister_strmod(&x_info)) < 0) {
        cmn_err(CE_PANIC, "%s: couldn't unregister module", X_MOD_NAME);
    }
    return;
}
\s+2\fR
.fi
.PP
Because of interactions between demand
.B Linux
kernel module loading and unloading and
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
.I STREAMS
module registration and deregistration,
.BR lis_register_strmod "(9) and " lis_unregister_strmod (9)
should only be called from within the kernel module init and cleanup routines
as illustrated below:
.sp
.in +4
.nf
\fC\s-2\
int init_module(void)
{
    x_init();
    if (x_initialized < 0)
        return x_initialized;
    return (0);
}
void cleanup_module(void)
{
    x_terminate();
}
\s+2\fR
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR lis_register_strdev (9),
.BR lis_register_strmod (9),
.BR lis_unregister_strdev (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR lis_unregister_strmod ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR lis_unregister_strmod ()
is an
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
implementation specific function.  Registration of
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules is inherently implementation specific and non-portable.
Different implementation provide different mechanisms.
.PP
For a fully functional and compatible
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Registration and unregistration of
.I STREAMS
drivers is implementation specific and not subject to standardization.
.BR lis_unregister_strmod ()
is an
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
implementation specific function.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR lis_unregister_strdev ()
first appeared in an early version of
.IR LiS .
.[
LiS
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
