'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: lis_mount.9.man,v 1.1.4.6 2008-04-29 08:33:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 08:33:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: lis_mount.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.6  2008-04-29 08:33:22  brian
.\" - update headers for Affero release
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:44  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MOUNT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mount, lis_mount
\- mount a file system
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dki.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int " retval " = lis_mount(char *" specialfile ", char *" dir ", char *" filesystemtype ", unsigned long " mountflags ", void *" data );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I specialfile
special device file to mount.
.TP
.I dir
directory in the filesystem upon which to mount.
.TP
.I filesystemtype
the type of the filesystem to mount.
.TP
.I mountflags
how to mount the filesystem.
.TP
.I data
filesystem specific data.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mount ()
is an
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
wrapper function to the system call
.BR mount (2)
that can be called from the kernel.
.PP
The purpose of this function being called from the kernel is to permit STREASM
kernel modules to mount their own filesystems.  Normally a file system would
be mounted by a
.I STREAMS
module or driver when the
.B Linux
kernel module is initialized (i.e. within the
.BR init_module ()
function), and unmounted using
.BR umount (9)
within the kernel module
.BR cleanup_module ()
function.
.PP
The arguments to
.BR mount ()
are the same as to the user system call
.BR mount (2).
.PP
.I specialfile
is the name of the device to mount.
.PP
.I dir
is the directory point at which to attach the file system.
.I filesystemtype
is the file system type for
.IR specialfile .
.I mountflags
are the flags used to specify options for mounting the file system.
.I mountflags
can be as follows:
.TP 16
.B MS_RDONLY
mount the file system read only.
.PD 0
.TP 16
.B MS_NOSUID
ignore suid and sgid bits.
.TP 16
.B MS_NODEV
refuse access to device special files.
.TP 16
.B MS_NOEXEC
do not permit program execution.
.TP 16
.B MS_SYNCHRONOUS
writes are synchronized immediately.
.TP 16
.B MS_REMOUNT
change the flags for an existing mounted file system.
.TP 16
.B MS_MANDLOCK
permit mandatory locks.
.TP 16
.B MS_NOATIME
do not change the access times on files.
.TP 16
.B MS_NODIRATIME
do not change the access times on directories.
.TP 16
.B MS_BIND
bind the subtree elsewhere.
.PD
.PP
.I data
is an argument that is interpreted differently depending on the file system
type.
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR mount (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR mount ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR mount ()
returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR mount ()
fails, it returns a negative error number that can contain any of the errors
listed under
.BR mount (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mount ()
must be called from user (process) context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR mount ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mount ()
is implemented by changing the data segment to the kernel data segment and
calling
.BR mount (2).
This means that the
.BR uid " and " euid
of the caller is not changed.
This makes this function rather useless if the process invoking it is not the
kernel module loading daemon, or other process running with real root
permission.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mount (2),
.BR lis_umount2 (9),
.BR lis_mknod (9),
.BR lis_unlink (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
Under GCOM releases of
.IR LiS ,
.BR moutn ()
will not function and will panic the kernel on architectures that do not have a simple call
interface for system calls (e.g. parisc).
.PP
Previous and current OpenSS7 releases of
.I LiS
do not have this problem.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR mount ()
is compatible with
.BR mount (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.I SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR mount ()
.IR "SVR 2" .
.[
svr2
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
