'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: lis_register_strmod.9.man,v 1.1.4.4 2005/04/08 22:40:47 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/04/08 22:40:47 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so lis.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH LIS_REGISTER_STRMOD 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B lis_register_strmod
\- register a \fISTREAMS\fR module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "modID_t lis_register_strmod(struct streamtab *" strtab ", const char *" name );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I strtab
the \fISTREAMS\fR stream table entry to register.
.TP
.I name
the name of the \fISTREAMS\fR module
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR lis_register_strmod ()
registers a new
.I STREAMS
module identified by
.I name
and allocates a module identifier to the module.
Once a
.I STREAMS
module is registered, it can be pushed on other streams by
.I name
with
.B I_PUSH ,
see
.BR streamio (2).
.PP
.BR lis_register_strmod ()
is an
.BR LiS -specific
function.
.[
LiS
.]
.I STREAMS
modules registered with
.BR lis_register_strmod ()
can be deregistered with
.BR lis_unregister_strmod (9).
.SS "Linux Kernel Module Loading"
.PP
When compiled with
.B LIS_LOADABLE_SUPPORT
indicating that
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
has loadable
.I STREAMS
module support,
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
has the feature that if a module name is unassigned and an attempt is made to
push a module with the name,
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
attempts to load the
.B Linux
kernel module
\fB\)streams-\fI\)MODNAME\fR\),
where
.I MODNAME
is the name of the module which is being pushed.
If loading the
.B Linux
kernel module
\fB\)streams-\fI\)MODNAME\fR\),
is successful and the loaded
.B Linux
kernel module registers the
.I MODNAME
.I STREAMS
module using
.BR lis_register_strmod () ,
the push operation that initiated the loading of the
.B Linux
kernel module will succeed.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR lis_register_strmod ()
is provided to register
.I STREAMS
modules written for
.IR LiS .
.[
LiS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR lis_register_strmod ()
returns a positive integer module identifier.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR lis_register_strmod ()
returns a
.BR LIS_NULL_MID .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR lis_register_strmod ()
fails, it returns
.B LIS_NULL_MID
and does not return an informative error number.
.BR lis_register_strmod ()
fails when
.I name
is
.BR NULL ;
.I name
is already used by another registered
.I STREAMS
module; or,
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
cannot allocate a free module identifier.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR lis_register_strmod ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
Consideration for impact on performance and
latency should be given before calling
.BR lis_register_strmod ()
from soft or hard interrupt context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR register_strmod ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR lis_register_strmod ()
should return an informative error number instead of just returning
.B LIS_NULL_MID
on failure.
.PP
.BR lis_regsiter_strmod ()
currently uses a fixed-size table for modules.  Once the table is full, any
attempt to register an additional module will fail.
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
should implement the module switch table as a linked list and allocate module
structures dynamically.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following is an example of a
.I STREAMS
module which dynamically registers
using
.BR lis_register_strdmod ().
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
#define X_MOD_NAME "example"

int x_initialized = 0;

void x_init(void)
{
    unless(x_initialized > 0, return);
    if ((x_initialized = lis_register_strmod(&x_info, X_MOD_NAME))
	== LIS_NULL_MID) {
	cmn_err(CE_WARN, "%s: couldn't register module", X_MOD_NAME);
    }
    return;
}
void x_terminate(void)
{
    ensure(x_initialized > 0, return);
    if ((x_initialized = lis_unregister_strmod(&x_info)) < 0) {
	cmn_err(CE_PANIC, "%s: couldn't unregister module", X_MOD_NAME);
    }
    return;
}
\s+2\fR
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR lis_register_strdev (9),
.BR lis_unregister_strmod (9),
.BR lis_unregister_strdev (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR lis_register_strmod ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR lis_register_strmod ()
is an
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
implementation specific function, with the following compatibility
considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
uses the function
.BR str_install_AIX ()
with the
.B STR_LOAD_MOD
flag to register
.I STREAMS
modules.
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
uses the function
.BR str_install_HPUX ()
with the
.B STR_IS_MODULE
flag to register
.I STREAMS
modules.
.IP \(em
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
uses the function
.BR strmod_add ()
with the
.B STR_IS_MODULE
flag to register
.I STREAMS
modules.
.IP \(em
.I LfS
.[
LfS
.]
uses the function
.BR register_strmod ()
to register modules.
.PP
For a fully function and compatible
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Registration and unregistration of
.I STREAMS
modules is implementation specific and not subject to standardization.
.BR lis_register_strmod ()
is an
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
implementation specific function.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR lis_register_strmod ()
first appeared in early versions of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
