'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: lis_mknod.9.man,v 1.1.4.5 2006/04/05 09:42:44 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:42:44 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: lis_mknod.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:44  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MKNOD 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mknod, lis_mknod
\- create a special or ordinary file
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dki.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int lis_mknod(const char *" pathname ", mode_t " mode ", dev_t " dev );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I pathname
the pathname in the filesystem to make.
.TP
.I mode
the mode of the character special device file to make.
.TP
.I dev
the device number.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR mknod ()
is an
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
wrapper function to the system call
.BR mknod (2)
that can be called from the kernel.
.PP
The purpose of this kernel function call is to permit
.I STREAMS
kernel modules to create their own character special devices.  This allows the
.I STREAMS
device driver to allocate a character device major number at kernel module
initialization, see
.BR lis_register_strdev (9),
and create the necessary character special file entires in
.B /dev
after the major number has been allocated.  This avoids fixed allocation of
character device major numbers within the
.B Linux
kernel.
.PP
.BR mknod ()
takes the same arguments as
.BR mknod (2).
.PP
.I pathname
is a string which describes the path to the file.
.PP
.I mode
is the bitwise OR combination of the file type and permissions.  The file type
is one of the following:
.TP 10
.B S_IFREG
Normal file to be created empty.
.PD 0
.TP
.B S_IFCHR
Character special file.
.TP
.B S_IFBLK
Block special file.
.TP
.B S_IFIFO
FIFO named pipe.
.TP
.B S_IFSOCK
Socket.
.PD
.PP
The permissions is the normal combination of the file permissions and the
caller's
permissions:
.BR "" ( "mode & ~umask" ).
.PP
.I dev
is used only if the file type in
.I mode
is either
.BR S_IFCHR " or " S_IFBLK ;
where it specifies the combination of device major and device minor numbers.
For other file types
.I dev
is ignored.
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR mknod (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success, the requested file is created and
.BR mknod ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure, no file is created and
.BR mknod ()
returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR mknod ()
fails, it returns a negative error number that can contain any of the errors
listed under
.BR mknod (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mknod ()
must be called from user (process) context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR mknod ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mknod ()
is implemented by changing the data segment to the kernel data segment and
calling
.BR mount (2).
This means that the
.BR uid " and " euid
of the caller is not changed.
This makes this function rather useless if the process invoking it is not the
kernel module loading daemon, or other process running with real root
permission, and a potential security breach otherwise.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mknod (2),
.BR lis_mount (9),
.BR lis_umount2 (9),
.BR lis_unlink (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
Under GCOM releases of
.IR LiS ,
.BR mknod ()
will not function and will panic the kernel on architectures that do not have a simple call
interface for system calls (e.g. parisc).
.PP
Previous and current OpenSS7 releases of
.I LiS
do not have this problem.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR mknod ()
is compatible with
.BR mknod (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.I SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR mknod ()
appeared in
.IR "SVR 2" .
.[
svr2
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
