'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: makedevice.9.man,v 1.1.4.5 2006/04/05 09:42:44 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:42:44 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: makedevice.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:44  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MAKEDEVICE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B makedevice, lis_makedevice
\- create a device from major and minor device numbers
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP 8
.BI "dev_t makedevice(major_t " major ", minor_t " minor );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I major
the major device number to combine into a device number.
.TP
.I minor
the minor device number to combine into a device number.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR makedevice ()
creates a
.B dev_t
device number from a device
.I major
number and a device
.I minor
number.
.PP
.BR makedevice ()
should support both external (real) and internal (base) device major numbers and
external (real) and internal (extended) device minor numbers; however,
.I LiS
only supports internal (base) device major numbers and internal (extended) device
minor numbers.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR makedevice ()
is used in the
.I STREAMS
driver
.BR qopen ()
procedure to create external device numbers to return from the call on
.BR clone (4)
opens.
.PP
If it is necessary that the
.I STREAMS
driver build device numbers from external device major and minor, the
.BR makedev ()
or
.BR makedev (3)
macros are preferable.
Unfortunately,
.I LiS
does not support a kernel version of
.BR makedev ().
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR makedevice ()
returns the
.B dev_t
device number for the supplied major and minor numbers;
when it fails, it returns
.BR NODEV .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR makedevice ()
always succeeds in generating a device number.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR makedevice ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR makedevice ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Depending on the architecture, the internal base major device number may or
may not be equal to one of the external (real) major device numbers assigned
to the driver.
.PP
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers should neither rely upon the specific value returned by
.BR getmajor (),
nor should it hard code the range of minor device numbers available to the
major device number returned by
.BR getmajor ().
.PP
.B major_t
is
.BR "unsigned int" .
.PP
The current maximum range of extended minor device numbers is the range of
.B minor_t
which is
.B unsigned int
or a range of 0 to
.BR MAXINT .
.PP
Although the extended minor device range is currently from
0 to
.BR MAXINT ,
only the first 2^10 minor device numbers can be represented as external (real)
device numbers on an older 16-bit device number Linux system; the first 2^22
minor device numbers can be represented as external (real) device number on an
older 32-bit device number Linux system.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR getmajor (9),
.BR getminor (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR makedevice ()
is only capable of generating internal device numbers.
.I LiS
does not provide support for
.BR makedev ()
which should be capable of generating external device numbers.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR makedevice ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr4
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR LiS ,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Under
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.BR makedevice ()
does not examine the validity of major or minor device components.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
provides a somewhat different mechanism.  See
.BR ddi_driver_major (),
.BR ddi_getiminor (),
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
and
.BR ddi_remove_minor_node ().
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare "\(rg DDI8"
provides a different mechanism with registered driver resources and channel
numbers.
.IP \(em
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
does not support extended device numbering, and
.BR makedevice ()
on earlier versions of
.I LiS
reduces to
.BR makedev ().
Current versions of
.I LiS
only provide a
.BR makedevice ()
that supports internal device numbering.
.IP \(em
.BR makedevice ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.I SVR 4.2 MP
and implementations based on
.I SVR 4.2
for the purpose of porting drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because the
.B dev_t
structure for
.B Linux
differs from that of other implementations,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR makedevice ()
only provide functionality comparable to
.I SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.  Any and all functionality provided by
.BR makedevice ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices is not supported.
.PP
For a fully functional and compatible
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ;
.[
usldk
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR makedevice ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.BR makedev (9)
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
