.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000  John A. Boyd Jr.  protologos, LLC
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Library General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the
.\" Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Cambridge,
.\" MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH PIPEMOD 9 "24 Apr 2000" "LiS 2.9" "Linux STREAMS"
.SH NAME
.B pipemod
\- 
.B STREAMS
module supporting flush handling in
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
.I fifos
and
.I pipes
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pipemod
module has the relatively simple task of reversing the sense of the
.B FLUSH
flag bits in
.B M_FLUSH
messages sent in
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
.I fifos
and
.IR pipes .
This must happen at the
.I midpoint
of a
.I fifo
or
.IR pipe ,
so that
.B FLUSHR
becomes
.BR FLUSHW ,
and
.B FLUSHW
becomes
.BR FLUSHR .
.B pipemod
does this, and has no other function.
.sp
To be used appropriately, then,
.B pipemod
must be the first module pushed onto a pipe end or a fifo, but it is
only necessary on one end of a pipe.
.sp
.B pipemod
is not needed if flush handling need not be supported, or if it its
function is supported by other means.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fifo "(9), "
.BR pipe "(3), "
.BR fifo "(4), "
.BR STREAMS "(4) "
.SH HISTORY
Unix System V Release 4 (SVR4)
.SH AUTHOR
John Boyd, protologos LLC.
