'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: pipemod.9.man,v 1.1.4.6 2008-04-29 08:33:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 08:33:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: pipemod.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.6  2008-04-29 08:33:22  brian
.\" - update headers for Affero release
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/10/10 10:34:52  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.4.4  2006/04/05 09:42:44  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.TH PIPEMOD 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000  John A. Boyd Jr.  protologos, LLC
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Library General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the
.\" Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Cambridge,
.\" MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.SH NAME
.B pipemod
\- pipe module
.B STREAMS
module supporting flush handling in
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
.I fifos
and
.I pipes
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pipemod
module has the relatively simple task of reversing the sense of the
.B FLUSH
flag bits in
.B M_FLUSH
messages sent in
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
.I fifos
and
.IR pipes .
This must happen at the
.I midpoint
of a
.I fifo
or
.IR pipe ,
so that
.B FLUSHR
becomes
.BR FLUSHW ,
and
.B FLUSHW
becomes
.BR FLUSHR .
.B pipemod
does this, and has no other function.
.sp
To be used appropriately, then,
.B pipemod
must be the first module pushed onto a pipe end or a fifo, but it is
only necessary on one end of a pipe.
.sp
.B pipemod
is not needed if flush handling need not be supported, or if it its
function is supported by other means.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fifo "(9), "
.BR pipe "(3), "
.BR fifo "(4), "
.BR STREAMS "(4) "
.SH HISTORY
Unix System V Release 4 (SVR4)
.SH AUTHOR
John Boyd, protologos LLC.
