'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: putbq.9.man,v 1.1.4.1 2005/03/09 23:14:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/09 23:14:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so lis.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH PUTBQ 9 "$Date: 2005/03/09 23:14:13 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B putbq, lis_putbq
\- puts a message back on a \fISTREAMS\fR message queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int " retval " = putbq(queue_t *" q ", struct msgb *" mp );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR putbq ()
places the message pointed to by
.I mp
back onto the queue pointed to by
.IR q .
When the message is placed back on the queue, it is placed on the head of the
queue, rather than the tail of the queue as would result from a call to
.BR putq (9).
.PP
.BR putbq ()
is normally called from within queue service routines to place a message back
on the queue subsequent to a call to
.BR getq (9)
that removes a message which it turns out cannot be processed at the moment.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR putbq ()
places the message on the queue and
returns true (1).
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR putbq ()
returns false (0) and the queue pointed to by
.I q
and the message pointed to by
.I mp
are unaffected.
The caller is retains ownership of the message
.I mp
when the call fails.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR putbq ()
fails if the passed in message pointer
.I mp
is
.BR NULL ;
or, the passed in queue pointer
.I q
is
.BR NULL ,
points to a structure other than a queue structure, or refers to a queue that
is closing or for which
put and service routine processing has been
turned off (e.g. with
.BR qprocsoff (9)).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR getq (9),
.BR putq (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
Versions prior to OpenSS7 release
.B LiS-2.16.18-17
automatically freed the message upon failure.
Versions subsequent to OpenSS7 release
.B LiS-2.16.18-16
do not free the message on failure and the caller retains ownership of the
message in accordance with SVR 4.2 and other implementations.
.PP
.BR putbq ()
still has bugs related to
.BR qprocsoff (9)
handling in that it fails while
.BR qprocsoff (9)
is in effect or if the stream is closing.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.B LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
.PP
.BR putbq ()
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
svr42
.]
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
