'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: qclose.9.man,v 1.1.4.5 2006/04/05 09:42:44 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:42:44 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: qclose.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:44  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH QCLOSE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B qclose, lis_qclose
\- closes a \fISTREAMS\fR module or driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int qclose(queue_t *" q ", int " flag ", cred_t *" credp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I q
the read queue of the queue pair to close.
.TP
.I flag
the flags that were provided to the
.BR qopen (9)
procedure.
.TP
.I credp
the credentials of the caller.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR qclose ()
closes a
.I STREAMS
module or driver by calling the queue's
.I qi_qclose
procedure.
.BR qclose ()
is invoked on the last close of a
.I STREAMS
character special file.
.PP
.I q
is a pointer to the module or driver's read queue.
.PP
.I flag
is a close flag and is one of the following:
.PP
.I credp
is a pointer to a credentials structure indicating the credentials of the
process invoking the close, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
typedef int o_uid_t;
typedef int o_gid_t;
typedef unsigned char uchar;

typedef struct cred {
    uid_t cr_uid;                               /* effective user id */
    gid_t cr_gid;                               /* effective group id */
    uid_t cr_ruid;                              /* real user id */
    gid_t cr_rgid;                              /* real group id */
} cred_t;
\fR\s+2
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR qclose ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR qclose ()
returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR qclose ()
fails, it returns a negative error number as follows:
.PP
In addition, any error returned by the module's
.I q->q_info->qi_close
function can be returned by
.BR qclose ().
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR qclose ()
should only be called from user context or from within a
.BR qopen (9)
or
.BR qclose (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR qclose ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR qclose ()
is an internal
.I STREAMS
function that is not intended to be called directly by
the module writer.  See
.BR close (2s)
and
.B I_POP
under
.BR streamio (2).
.PP
.BR qclose ()
is an internal
.I STREAMS
function which was not intended to be called directly by
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers.
.BR qclose ()
is not part of the DDI/DKI and should no be called by portable programs.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following is an example of a module close procedure.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
int xxx_close(queue_t* q, int flag, cred_t* crp)
{
    (void) flag;
    (void) crp;
    xxx_free_priv(q);
    MOD_DEC_USE_COUNT;
    return (0);
}
\fR\s+2
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR close (2s),
.BR streamio (2),
.BR qopen (9),
.BR qattach (9),
.BR qdetach (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
invokes the module's
.I qi_qclose
procedure directly and ignores the return value.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR qclose ()
is not exported by SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI
or
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.PP
For a fully functional and compatible
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR qclose ()
is compliant with the description of the internal
.BR qclose ()
function of
SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
as described in
.IR "\*(lqThe Magic Garden\*(rq" .
.[
magic
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR qclose ()
first appeared in as a module entry point in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
