'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: qopen.9.man,v 1.1.4.1 2005/03/09 23:14:14 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/09 23:14:14 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so lis.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH QOPEN 9 "$Date: 2005/03/09 23:14:14 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.SH NAME
.B qopen, lis_qopen
\- call a \fISTREAMS\fR module or driver open routine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int " retval " = qopen(queue_t *" q ", dev_t *" devp ", int " flag ", cred_t *" credp );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR qopen ()
is an internal
.IR STREAMS (4)
function which invokes a
.IR STREAMS (4)
module or driver open
routine.
.PP
.I q
is a pointer to the read queue of a newly allocated queue pair for the module
or driver,  allocated with
.BR allocq (9).
.PP
.I devp
is a pointer to a
.B dev_t
device number.
For a driver,
.B devp
points to the device number of the
.IR STREAMS (4)
character special file that was
opened that invoked the driver's open routine.
A driver open routine returns the resulting device
number to the area pointed to by
.IR devp .
See
.BR makedevice (9).
For a module,
.B devp
points to the device number of the
.IR STREAMS (4)
character special file under whose
stream file the module is being pushed.  A module open routine does not alter
the device number but may use the passed in device number to determine which
device the module is ultimately being pushed over.
.PP
.I flag
contains open flags for use by the stream or drivers open routine and will
contain one of:
.TP 12
.B DRVOPEN
the module was opened as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
driver.
.TP 12
.B MODOPEN
the module was opened as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
module.
.TP 12
.B CLONEOPEN
the module was opened via the
.BR clone (4)
driver.
.PP
.I credp
points to a
.B cred_t
structure which provides the credentials of the process invoking the open,
structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
typedef int o_uid_t;
typedef int o_gid_t;
typedef unsigned char uchar;

typedef struct cred {
    uid_t cr_uid;                               /* effective user id */
    gid_t cr_gid;                               /* effective group id */
    uid_t cr_ruid;                              /* real user id */
    gid_t cr_rgid;                              /* real group id */
} cred_t;
\fR\s+2
.fi
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR qopen ()
is an internal
.IR STREAMS (4)
function that is not intended to be called
directly by the module writer.  See
.BR open (2s)
and
.B I_PUSH
under
.BR streamio (2).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR qopen ()
returns zero (0) and the device number associated with a driver in the area
pointed to by
.IR devp .
Upon failure,
.BR qopen ()
returns a negative error number.
.SH ERRORS
When
.BR qopen ()
fails, it returns a negative error number as follows:
.TP 12
.RB [ ENOPKG ]
the module has no qopen routine.
.PP
.BR qopen ()
can also return any error returned by the modules qopen routine.  In general,
the following errors are provided by module qopen routines:
.TP 12
.RB [ EXNIO ]
the qopen routine for the module or driver failed.
.TP 12
.RB [ EIO ]
a module was opened as a driver, or visa versa.
.TP 12
.RB [ EPERM ]
the opening process did not have sufficient credentials to open the specified
device or push the specified module.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
memory could not be allocated to hold the module or driver's private
structures.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENOSR "], [" ENOBUFS ]
a buffer could not be allocated as part of the open.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENOSR ]
a
.IR STREAMS (4)
resource could not be allocated as part of the open.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following is an example of a module open routine:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
static priv_t *xxx_opens = NULL;

int xxx_open(queue_t * q, dev_t * devp, int flag, int sflag, cred_t * crp)
{
    int err;
    MOD_INC_USE_COUNT;          /* keep module from unloading */
    if (q->q_ptr != NULL) {
        MOD_DEC_USE_COUNT;
        return (0);             /* already open */
    }
    if (sflag == MODOPEN || WR(q)->q_next != NULL) {
        int cmajor = getmajor(*devp);
        int cminor = getminor(*devp);
        priv_t *x;
        /* test for multiple push */
        for (x = xxx_opens; x; x = x->next) {
            if (x->u.dev.cmajor == cmajor && x->u.dev.cminor == cminor) {
                MOD_DEC_USE_COUNT;
                return (ENXIO);
            }
        }
        if (!(xxx_alloc_priv(q, &xxx_opens, devp, crp))) {
            MOD_DEC_USE_COUNT;
            return (ENOMEM);
        }
        return (0);
    }
    MOD_DEC_USE_COUNT;
    return (EIO);
}
\fR\s+2
.fi
.PP
Following is an example of a driver open routine:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
int ss_majors[SS_NMAJOR] = { SS_CMAJOR, };
int ss_open(queue_t * q, dev_t * devp, int flag, int sflag,
            cred_t * crp)
{
    int flags, mindex = 0;
    int cmajor = getmajor(*devp);
    int cminor = getminor(*devp);
    ss_t *ss, **ipp = &ss_opens;
    const ss_profile_t *prof;
    MOD_INC_USE_COUNT;          /* keep module from unloading in our
                                   face */
    if (q->q_ptr != NULL) {
        MOD_DEC_USE_COUNT;
        return (0);             /* already open */
    }
    if (sflag == MODOPEN || WR(q)->q_next) {
        ptrace(("%s: ERROR: can't push as module\n", SS_MOD_NAME));
        MOD_DEC_USE_COUNT;
        return (EIO);
    }
    if (cmajor != SS_CMAJOR || cminor < ICMP_CMINOR ||
        cminor > RAWIP_CMINOR) {
        MOD_DEC_USE_COUNT;
        return (ENXIO);
    }
    prof = &ss_profiles[cminor - ICMP_CMINOR];
    cminor = FREE_CMINOR;
    lis_spin_lock_irqsave(&ss_lock, &flags);
    for (; *ipp; ipp = &(*ipp)->next) {
        if (cmajor != (*ipp)->cmajor)
            break;
        if (cmajor == (*ipp)->cmajor) {
            if (cminor < (*ipp)->cminor)
                break;
            if (cminor == (*ipp)->cminor) {
                if (++cminor >= SS_NMINOR) {
                    if (++mindex >= SS_NMAJOR ||
                        !(cmajor = ss_majors[mindex]))
                        break;
                    cminor = 0;
                }
                continue;
            }
        }
    }
    if (mindex >= SS_NMAJOR || !cmajor) {
        ptrace(("%s: ERROR: no device numbers available\n",
                SS_MOD_NAME));
        lis_spin_unlock_irqrestore(&ss_lock, &flags);
        MOD_DEC_USE_COUNT;
        return (ENXIO);
    }
    printd(("%s: opened character device %d:%d\n", SS_MOD_NAME, cmajor,
            cminor));
    *devp = makedevice(cmajor, cminor);
    if (!(ss = ss_alloc_priv(q, ipp, cmajor, cminor, crp, prof))) {
        ptrace(("%s: ERROR: No memory\n", SS_MOD_NAME));
        lis_spin_unlock_irqrestore(&ss_lock, &flags);
        MOD_DEC_USE_COUNT;
        return (ENOMEM);
    }
    lis_spin_unlock_irqrestore(&ss_lock, &flags);
    return (0);
}
\fR\s+2
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR open (2s),
.BR streamio (2),
.BR qclose (9),
.BR qattach (9),
.BR qdetach (9).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.B LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
.PP
.BR qopen ()
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
svr42
.]
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
