'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: qprocson.9.man,v 1.1.4.5 2006/04/05 09:42:44 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:42:44 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: qprocson.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:44  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH QPROCSON 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B qprocson, lis_qprocson
\- enables a \fISTREAMS\fR message queue for multi-processing
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "void qprocson(queue_t *" rq );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I rq
the read queue of the queue pair for which to turn on queue procedures.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR qprocson ()
enables the invocation of put and service procedures for the queue pair whose
read queue pointer is pointed to by
.IR rq .
.PP
.BR qprocson ()
should be called before returning from the
.BR qopen (9)
procedure and before passing any messages with
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putnext (9),
invoking callbacks with
.BR mi_bufcall (9),
.BR qbufcall (9)
or
.BR qtimeout (9)
and before executing
.BR qwait (9)
or
.BR qwait_sig (9).
.PP
.BR qprocson ()
is provided so that a module or driver
.BR qopen (9)
procedure is able to prepare
.BR put (9)
and
.BR srv (9)
procedures from the open routine before the
.BR put (9)
and
.BR srv (9)
procedures are invoked by upstream stream head, modules or drivers on either
queue in the queue pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR qprocson ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR qprocsoff ()
is always successful.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR qprocson ()
can be called from any
.BR !in_irq ()
context including user context, queue procedures, call-outs, callbacks, but
must not be called from an interrupt service routine.
.PP
.BR qprocsoff ()
must be called by the
.BR qclose ()
procedure (i.e. in user context) before returning.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR qprocson ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
.BR qprocson ()
must be called with the queue-pair read queue, otherwise only the write queue
will have processing turned on.  This is probably a bug.
.PP
.BR qprocson ()
must be called with a valid read queue pointer for a queue pair.
.BR qprocson ()
must not be called on a stream that is frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.PP
Before a call to
.BR qprocson ()
a driver or module is only partially attached to a stream.  With procedures
turned off, any upstream or downstream module calling
.BR putnext (9)
will bypass the module.
After the explicit (or implicit) call to
.BR qprocson ()
the driver or module is fully inserted into the stream.
.PP
See also
.IR \*(lqCOMPATIBILITY\*(rq ,
below.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR qprocsoff (9),
.BR qopen (9),
.BR putnext (9),
.BR allocq (9),
.BR freezestr (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR qprocson ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR qprocson ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and system based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following porting considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR qprocson ()
sets the
.I QHLIST
flag in the
.BR queue (9)
structure for both queues in the queue pair.
.BR qprocson ()
can be called repeatedly for the same queue pair and only the first call will
have an effect.  This can crash or lock processors on other systems (with the
exception of
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
as described below.)
.IP \(em
Although
.BR qprocson ()
is supposed to be called before returning from the
.BR qopen (9)
procedure,
on systems that support it,
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
performs an implicit
.BR qprocson ()
upon return from
.BR qopen (9)
in the case that
.BR qprocson ()
was not called before return.
.IP \(em
.BR qprocson ()
may be called on a stream frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
.[
suxspg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
do not permit
.BR qprocson ()
to be called on a stream frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should not call
.BR qprocson ()
on a stream frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.PP
For a fully functional and compatible
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ;
.[
usldk
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR qprocson ()
first appeared in SVR 4 MP DDI/DKI.
.[
svr4dk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage is written for
.B LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
.PP
.BR qprocson ()
first appeared in SVR 4.2.
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
