'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: rmvb.9.man,v 1.1.4.6 2008-04-29 08:33:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 08:33:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: rmvb.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.6  2008-04-29 08:33:22  brian
.\" - update headers for Affero release
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:45  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH RMVB 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B rmvb, lis_rmvb
\- remove a message block from a \fISTREAMS\fR message
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "mblk_t *rmvb(mblk_t *" mp ", mblk_t *" bp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I mp
the message chain from which to remove a block.
.TP
.I bp
the message block to remove.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Removes the message block pointed to by
.I bp
from the message pointed to by
.I mp
and returns the pointer to the (new) first message block in the message.
.PP
.BR rmvb ()
does removes the message block
.I bp
from the message
.IR mp ,
but does not free the message block
.IR bp .
.IR bp 's
.I b_cont
pointer is set to
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR rmvb ()
returns a pointer to the modified message.
The modified message may be
.BR NULL .
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR rmvb ()
returns
.BR "(mblk_t *)(-1)" .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR rmvb ()
fails it returns
.BR "(mblk_t *)(-1)" .
.BR rmvb ()
only fails if
.I bp
was not in the message.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR rmvb ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR rmvb ()
is MP-safe; however, it is the responsibility of the caller to ensure
exclusive access to the passed in message
.I mp
and message block
.IR dp .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR rmvb ()
returns
.B NULL
if
.IR mp " or " bp
are
.BR NULL .
This is not entirely correct, as when
.I mp
is
.B NULL
and
.I bp
is not,
.I bp
does not exist in the message pointed to by
.IR mp ,
and 
.BR rmvb ()
should return
.BR (mblk_t *)(-1).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR linkb (9),
.BR unlinkb (9),
.BR freeb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
When
.I mp
is
.B NULL
and
.I bp
is not,
.I bp
does not exist in the message pointed to by
.IR mp ,
and 
.BR rmvb ()
should return
.BR (mblk_t *)(-1).
.I LiS
returns
.B NULL
in this situation.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR rmvb ()
is source-level compatible with SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
When
.IR mp " and " bp
are
.BR NULL ,
.BR rmvb ()
correctly returns
.BI "(mblk_t *)(" -1 )\fR.
Under
.IR LiS ,
.BR rmvb ()
will return
.B NULL
in the same situation.  This is an
.I LiS
bug.
.PP
For a fully functional and compatible
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI.
.[
usldk
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR rmvb ()
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
