'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: rmvq.9.man,v 1.1.4.4 2005/04/08 22:40:49 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/04/08 22:40:49 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so lis.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH RMVQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B rmvq, lis_rmvq
\- remove a message from a \fISTREAMS\fR message queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "void rmvq(queue_t *" q ", mblk_t *" mp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue from which to remove the message.
.TP 
.I mp
the message to remove.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
removes the message pointed to by
.I mp
from the queue pointed to by
.IR q .
The message can be removed from the middle of the queue and does not need to
be at the head or tail of the queue.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
silently fails if
the message pointer
.I mp
is
.BR NULL ;
the queue pointer
.I q
is
.BR NULL ;
the queue pointer
.I q
does not point to a valid queue structure;
.I q
is closing;
.I q
has put and service procedures turned off (e.g. with
.BR qprocsoff (9));
the message pointed to by
.I mp
does not exist on the queue
.IR q .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
can be called from any context including user context, queue procedures,
callouts, callbacks and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
is not MP-safe.
.BR rmvq ()
would be MP-safe, if the caller could ensure exclusive access to the passed in
message,
.IR mp ,
and queue,
.IR q .
.PP
On uniprocessor systems it may be sufficient to block interrupts to ensure
exclusive access to queue,
.IR q .
Ensuring exclusive access to the passed in message,
.IR mp ,
is difficult on SMP systems, because
.BR putq (9),
.BR putbq "(9) and
.BR insq (9)
can change
.I mp->b_next
and
.BR getq (9),
.BR flushq (9),
.BR flushband "(9) and
.BR rmvq (9)
can change
.IR mp ,
(e.g. remove it from the queue).
.PP
Normally exclusive access to the passed in queue,
.IR q ,
on both UP and SMP systems can be ensured most easily by freezing the stream
associated with the queue,
.IR q ,
using
.BR freezestr (9).
Otherwise, it is also possible to ensure exclusive access with
.BR MPSTR_STRLOCK (),
.BR MPSTR_QLOCK (),
.BR qwriter (),
.BR streams_put (),
or with appropriate synchronization boundaries
.RB ( STR_PERQUEUE " or " D_MTPERQ ).
However,
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
only has a broken
.BR freezestr (9),
subsequent to version 2.18.0,
and the other facilities mentioned are not implemented in
.IR LiS .
.[
LiS
.]
This makes
.BR rmvq ()
unusable on MP systems in
.IR LiS .
.[
LiS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
does not maintain a pointer in the
.B msgb
structure to the queue to which a given message currently belongs.  This means
that
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
must search the queue pointed to by
.I q
for the message pointed to by
.I mp
using a linear search.
This is inefficient if
.BR rmvq ()
is called often by a
.I STREAMS
module or driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR insq (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
has no known bugs aside from problems with MP-safety.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
is source-level compatible with SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI
.[
usldk
.]
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR rmvq ()
is always successful.
.IP "" 4
Under
.IR LiS ,
.BR rmvq ()
silently fails if
the message pointer
.I mp
is
.BR NULL ;
the queue pointer
.I q
is
.BR NULL ;
the queue pointer
.I q
does not point to a valid queue structure;
.I q
is closing;
.I q
has put and service procedures turned off (e.g. with
.BR qprocsoff (9));
the message pointed to by
.I mp
does not exist on the queue
.IR q .
.IP \(em
.I LiS
does not maintain a pointer in the
.BR msgb (9)
structure to the queue to which a given message currently belongs.  This means
that
.I LiS
must search the queue pointed to by
.I q
for the message pointed to by
.I mp
using a linear search.  This is inefficient if
.BR rmvq ()
is called often by a
.IR STREAMS (4)
module or driver.
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
and
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
.[
suxspg
.]
require that a stream be frozen with
.BR freezestr (9)
for the duration of the call to
.BR rmvq ().
.PP
For a fully functional and compatible
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR rmvq ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
