'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strqget.9.man,v 1.1.4.5 2006/04/05 09:42:45 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:42:45 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strqget.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:45  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRQGET 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strqget, lis_strqget
\- gets information about a \fISTREAMS\fR message queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int strqget(queue_t *" q ", qfields_t " what ", unsigned char " band ", long *" val );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue from which to get information.
.TP
.I what
what information to get.
.TP
.I band
what band (if applicable).
.TP
.I val
a pointer into which to place the value.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR strqget ()
returns the value or pointer requested by
.I what
for the queue pointed to by
.I q
and band specified by
.I band
into the memory area pointed to by
.IR val .
The attribute retrieved can be either a scalar or a pointer.
.PP
When
.I band
is zero,
.BR strqget ()
will retrieve the attribute specified by
.I what
for the queue.
When
.I band
is non-zero (between 1 and 255),
.BR strqget ()
will retrieve the attribute specified by
.I what
for the queue band specified by
.IR band .
.PP
The argument
.I what
specifies which queue (or queue band if
.I band
is non-zero) attribute is to be retrieved.
.I what
can be one of the following values:
.TP 12
.B QHIWAT
Gets the high water mark associated with the
.I q
or queue
.IR band .
.TP 12
.B QLOWAT
Gets the low water mark associated with the
.I q
or queue
.IR band .
.TP 12
.B QCOUNT
Gets the count of bytes associated with the
.I q
or queue
.IR band .
.TP 12
.B QFIRST
Gets the first message pointer associated with the
.I q
or queue
.IR band .
.TP 12
.B QLAST
Gets the last message pointer associated with the
.I q
or queue
.IR band .
.TP 12
.B QFLAG
Gets the flags associated with the
.I q
or queue
.IR band .
.TP 12
.B QMAXPSZ
Gets the maximum packet size associated with the
.IR q .
For this operation
.I band
must be zero (0).
.TP 12
.B QMINPSZ
Gets the minimum packet size associated with the
.IR q .
For this operation
.I band
must be zero (0).
.PP
.BR strqget ()
provides a mechanism whereby a
.I STREAMS
module or driver can access information
about a queue or queue band without directly accessing the
.B queue
or
.B qband
structures.
Values retrieved by
.BR strqget ()
are equivalent to directly accessing the
.B queue
or
.B qband
structure members described below.
.PP
The
.B queue
structure contains at least the following members:
.HP
.BI "ulong " q_hiwat
\- the high water mark for the queue.
.HP
.BI "ulong " q_lowat
\- the low water mark for the queue.
.HP
.BI "ulong " q_count
\- the count of the number of bytes in the queue.
.HP
.BI "struct msgb *" q_first
\- the first message in the queue.
.HP
.BI "struct msgb *" q_last
\- the last message in the queue.
.HP
.BI "ulong " q_flag
\- the flags associated with the queue, see
.BR "\*(lqQueue Flags\*(rq" ,
above.
.HP
.BI "long " q_maxpsz
\- the maximum message size accepted by the queue.
.HP
.BI "long " q_minpsz
\- the minimum message size accepted by the queue.
.PP
The
.B qband
structure contains at least the following members:
.HP
.BI "ulong " qb_hiwat
\- the high water mark for the band.
.HP
.BI "ulong " qb_lowat
\- the low water mark for the band.
.HP
.BI "ulong " qb_count;
\- the count of the number of bytes in the band.
.HP
.BI "struct msgb *" qb_first
\- the first message in the band.
.HP
.BI "struct msgb *" qb_last
\- the last message in the band.
.HP
.BI "ulong " qb_flag
\- the flags associated with the band, see
.BR "\*(lqQueue Band Flags\*(rq" ,
above.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS "Queue Flags"
.PP
When
.BR strqget ()
is called with
.I what
set to
.B QFLAG
and
.I band
is set to zero (0),
.BR strqget ()
returns the queue flags in the area pointed to by
.IR val .
The queue flags in the area pointed to by
.I val
can contain the following flags:
.TP 12
.B QENAB
set when the queue is enabled.
.TP 12
.B QWANTR
set when the previous queue wants to read.
.TP 12
.B QWANTW
set when the previous queue wants to write.
.TP 12
.B QFULL
set when the queue is full.  The queue is full when the count of
bytes in the queue is greater than the high water mark for the
queue.
.TP 12
.B QREADR
set when the queue is the reader.
.TP 12
.B QUSE
set when the queue is not free.
.TP 12
.B QNOENB
set when the queue is not to be enabled.
.TP 12
.B QBACK
set when the queue is a back-enabled queue.
This flag is
.IR LiS -specific.
.TP 12
.B QRETRY
set when the retry timer is set for the queue.
This flag is
.IR LiS -specific.
.TP 12
.B QSCAN
set when the queue is in the scan list.
This flag is
.IR LiS -specific.
.TP 12
.B QCLOSING
set when the stream head wants to close this queue.
This flag is
.IR LiS -specific.
.TP 12
.B QWASFULL
set when the queue was previously full (QFULL was set) but the
queue count has not yet dropped to the low water mark.
This flag is
.IR LiS -specific.
.TP 12
.B QCLOSEWT
set when the stream head is waiting for the queue to drain.
This flag is
.IR LiS -specific.
.TP 12
.B QPROCSOFF
set when the put and service procedures for the queue are turned off.
This flag is
.IR LiS -specific.
.TP 12
.B QRUNNING
set while the queue's service procedure is running.
This flag is
.IR LiS -specific.
.TP 12
.B QWAITING
set when qdetach is waiting on the queue for a wakeup.
This flag is
.IR LiS -specific.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS "Queue Band Flags"
.PP
When
.BR strqget ()
is called with
.I what
set to
.B QFLAG
and
.I band
is set between 1 and 255,
.BR strqget ()
returns the queue band flags associated with
.I band
in the area pointed to by
.IR val .
The queue band flags in the area pointed to by
.I val
can contain the following flags:
.TP 12
.B QB_FULL
set when the queue band is full.  The queue band is full when the count of the
bytes in the queue band is greater than the high water mark for the queue
band.
.TP 12
.B QB_WANTW
set when the previous queue wants to write to this queue band.
.TP 12
.B QB_BACK
set when the queue band is back-enabled.
This field is
.IR LiS -specific.
.TP 12
.B QB_WASFULL
set when the queue band was previously full (QB_FULL was set) but the queue
band count has not yet dropped to the low water mark for the queue band.
This flag is
.IR LiS -specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR strqget ()
returns zero (0) and places the appropriate value in the
memory area pointed to by
.IR val .
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR strqget ()
returns a non-zero error number.
The memory area pointed to by
.I val
remains unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR strqget ()
fails,
it returns one of the following errors:
.TP 12
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The value pointer
.I val
is
.BR NULL ;
the queue pointer
.I q
is
.BR NULL;
.I q
does not point to a valid queue structure;
the queue band specified in
.I band
does not exist;
.BR QMAXPSZ " or " QMINPSZ
was specified for
.I what
and
.I band
was non-zero;
.I what
is not a valid queue or queue band attribute.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR strqget ()
can be called from any context including user context, queue procedures,
callouts, callbacks and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR strqget ()
is MP-safe.
.PP
Calling
.BR strqget ()
on a queue and stream previously frozen with
.BR freezestr (9)
could result in single-party deadlock.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
defines a number of queue flags that are not elsewhere defined, yet returns
those flags from a call to
.BR strqget ().
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
should mask off its private flags when returning flags from a call to
.BR strqget ().
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR strqset (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR strqget ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR strqget ()
is source-level compatible with
.I SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR strqget ()
only returns defined flags.
.I LiS
defines a number of queue flags that are not elsewhere defined, yet
returns those flags from a call to
.BR strqget ().
.I LiS
should mask off its private flags when returning flags from a call to
.BR strqget ().
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
and
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
.[
suxspg
.]
require that a stream be frozen with
.BR freezestr (9)
for the duration of the call to
.BR strqget ().
.PP
For a fully functional and compatible
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.[
soldoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR strqget ()
first appeared in SVR 4 MP.
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
