'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: testb.9.man,v 1.1.4.6 2008-04-29 08:33:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 08:33:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: testb.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.6  2008-04-29 08:33:22  brian
.\" - update headers for Affero release
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:45  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TESTB 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B testb, lis_testb
\- test is a \fISTREAMS\fR message can be allocated
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int testb(int " size ", unsigned int " priority );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I size
the size of message allocation to test.
.TP
.I prioirty
the priority of the request to test.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR testb ()
tests whether an allocation made with
.BR allocb (9)
of the size specified by
.I size
and priority specified by
.IR priority ,
will succeed or fail.
To test whether a subsequent allocation with
.BR esballoc (9)
will succeed or fail, set
.I size
to zero (0).
.PP
.I priority
can be one of the following values:
.TP 12
.B BPRI_LO
The caller requests a low priority message buffer.
.TP 12
.B BPRI_MED
The caller requests a medium priority message buffer.
.TP 12
.B BPRI_HI
The caller requests a high priority message buffer.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR testb ()
returns true (1) if the allocate would succeed, and returns false (0) if the
allocation would fail.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR testb ()
always succeeds.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR testb ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR testb ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
As with other post SVR 3 STREAMS
.[
svr3
.]
implementations,
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
ignores the
.I priority
argument to
.BR testb () .
The message block
.I priority
was an SVR 3
.[
svr3
.]
concept which was found not to be useful, primarily due to
priority inversion.  For a history of the
.I priority
mechanism and a discussion as to why the mechanism was abandonned in SVR 4.2,
.[
svr42
.]
see \*(lqThe Magic Garden Explained\*(rq section 7.7.2.
.[
magic
.]
.PP
.BR testb ()
can only test whether the allocation would succeed at a given moment in time.
It cannot indicate what would happen immediately following return from
.BR testb ().
Therefore, the return from
.BR allocb "(9) and " esballoc (9)
must always be tested for
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR allocb (9),
.BR esballoc (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR testb ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR testb ()
is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4spg
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdoc
.]
defines the first argument as
.BR "register int" .
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
ignore the
.I priority
argument.
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
.[
suxdoc
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfdoc
.]
do not.
.IP \(em
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
adds the
.B BPRI_WAITOK
priority.
.IP \(em
.IR UXP/V \(rg
.[
uxpdoc
.]
does not document this function.
.PP
For a fully functional and compatible
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR testb ()
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
