'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: untimeout.9.man,v 1.1.4.5 2006/04/05 09:42:45 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:42:45 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: untimeout.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:45  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH UNTIMEOUT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B untimeout, lis_untimeout
\- stop a timer
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dki.h>
.HP 8
.BI "toid_t untimeout(toid_t " tid );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I tid
the timeout identifier to cancel.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR untimeout ()
stops a timer previously started with
.BR timeout (9).
.I tid
is the timer identifier that was returned from a previous call to
.BR timeout (9).
.PP
.BR untimeout ()
is typically used to stop timers before they expire, and to deallocate timers
before a stream is closed.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR untimeout ()
returns a
.B timo_t
defined as follows:
.sp
.nf
typedef int toid_t;
typedef int timeout_id_t;
.fi
.PP
The return value from
.BR untimeout ()
is undefined and ignored.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR untimeout ()
fails silently
.IR "" ( retval
is ignored) when
the timer associated with the timer identifier
.I tid
no longer exists or is invalid.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR untimeout ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR untimeout ()
is MP-safe.
.PP
Because the module is permitted to unload after calling
.BR untimeout ()
for all outstanding buffer callbacks the call to
.BR untimeout ()
will not return until either the callback function has completed, or the
callback function has been cancelled.  Therefore the callback function will be
guaranteed not to run once 
.BR untimeout ()
has returned for all outstanding callbacks.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
provides a wrapper to Linux Kernel timer functions to implement
.BR timeout ().
.BR LiS 's
implementation
.[
LiS
.]
creates a Linux timer structure, assigns it a sequential
integer timer identifier, and places it in a timer list.
Whenever
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
stops a timer, it checks the list for the integer timer identifier with
interrupts disabled.  This is an exhaustive linear search.  This is
inefficient.
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers that stop timers often will experience poorer performance
than if the Linux kernel timer facility was used
directly.
.PP
.BR untimeout ()
can be called with a
.I toid
returned by
.BR timeout (9).
.PP
.BR untimeout ()
must be called for all outstanding timeout calls from the
.BR qclose (9)
procedure of the modules before exiting and unloading.
.PP
.BR untimeout ()
must be called promptly for outstanding timeouts.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR timeout (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
Unfortunately,
under
.IR LiS ,
.[
LiS
.]
.BR untimeout ()
returns immediately when a callback is being executed without cancelling the callback.  This makes
the function rather unusable on
.IR LiS .
.[
LiS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR untimeout ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4"
.[
svr4spg
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.IR UnixWare \(rg
function prototype returns
.BR void .
.IP \(em
Under
.IR LiS ,
.[
lis
.]
.BR timeout (9)
creates a Linux timer structure, assigns it a sequential integer timer
identifier, and places it in a timer list.  Whenever
.I LiS
stops a timer, it
checks the list for the integer timer identifier with interrupts disabled.
This is an exhaustive linear search.  This is inefficient.
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers that stop timers often will experience poorer performance
than if the Linux kernel timer facility was used directly.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdoc
.]
describes this function as accepting an
.B int
.I bcid
and returning an
.B int
return value.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
describes this function as having the following prototype:
.sp
.nf
.BI "clock_t untimeout(timeout_id_t " toid );
.fi
.sp
The
.B clock_t
return value is described as being -1 when the
.I toid
is not found and zero or positive otherwise.
.IP \(em
Both
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdoc
.]
and
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfdoc
.]
have different prototypes for
.BR timeout (9)
and
.BR untimeout (9)
when used for
.I STREAMS
as when used for other drivers.  The prototypes for
.BR timeout (9)
and
.BR untimeout (9)
for use by
.I STREAMS
are the old
.I SVR 3
.[
svr3spg
.]
definitions which use an
.B int
for the
.BR toid_t .
.PP
For a fully functional and compatible
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR untimeout ()
first appeared in SVR 2.
.[
svr2
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
