'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: WR.9.man,v 1.1.4.6 2008-04-29 08:33:20 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 08:33:20 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: WR.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.6  2008-04-29 08:33:20  brian
.\" - update headers for Affero release
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/04/05 09:42:43  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH WR 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B WR
\- return the write queue of a \fISTREAMS\fR queue pair
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP 8
.BI "queue_t *WR(" q );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
a pointer to either the read or write queue of a queue pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR WR ()
returns the write queue associated with the queue pair indicated by the queue
pointer
.IR q ,
regardless of whether
.I q
points to the write queue or the write queue of the queue pair.
.PP
.BR WR ()
is typically and often used to find the write queue from a pointer to one of
the queues in a queue pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR WR ()
returns a pointer to the write queue of the queue pair referenced by
.IR q .
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR WR ()
returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR WR ()
fails, it returns
.BR NULL .
.BR WR ()
fails when the queue pointer
.I q
is
.BR NULL ;
.I q
does not point to a valid queue structure;
.I q->q_other
is
.BR NULL ;
.I q->q_other
does not point to a valid queue structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR WR ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR WR ()
is MP-safe; however,
the caller is responsible for the validity of the reference
.IR q .
References to
.I q
from a procedure, call-out or callback predicated on the queue pair to which
.I q
belongs
are guaranteed valid.
The caller must guarantee validity from call-outs, callbacks, soft interrupts
and interrupt service routines not predicated on the queue pair to which
.I q
belongs.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
implements
.BR WR ()
as a function rather than as the more obvious
macro:
.sp
.nf
#define WR(__q) __q->q_flags & QREADR ? __q->q_other : __q
.fi
.PP
The
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
function call is inefficient, particularly as this function is called often
and regularly.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR WR (9),
.BR OTHERQ (9),
.BR SAMESTR (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR WR ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR WR ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.[
suxspg
.]
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7spg
.]
.IR LiS ,
.[
lis
.]
permit both a read or write queue pointer to be passed
as the
.I q
argument to
.BR WR ().
If a write queue pointer is passed to
.BR WR (),
then the passed in write queue pointer is returned.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixspg
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfspg
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
.[
uxpspg
.]
permit only a read queue to be passed as the
.I q
argument to
.BR WR ().
Passing a write queue to
.BR WR ()
on these implementations can cause a kernel panic.
On these systems
.BR WR ()
is often defined as:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
#define WR(__q) ((__q)+1)
\s+2\fP
.fi
.IP \(em
.BR WR ()
is implemented on
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
as both an
.B extern inline
function as well as a macro.
It accepts either read or write queue pointer and returns the passed in write
queue pointer when called with a write queue.
.I WR(q) == WR(WR(q))
and
.I WR(RD(q)) == (RD(q) + 1)
are invariantly true.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
#undef WR
#define WR(__q) ((__q)+1)
\s+2\fP
.fi
.sp
is a valid alternative implementation if the
.I STREAMS
programmer wishes the more restrictive
.BR WR ()
behavior.
.IP \(em
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should not
call
.BR WR ()
with a queue other than the read queue;
nor
rely upon
.BR WR ()
being defined as a macro or a function.
.PP
For a fully functional and compatible
.I STREAMS
implementation, use
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR WR ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" ,
.[
svr3spg
.]
where it was defined as a macro.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
