'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strinet.5.man,v 0.9.2.4 2007/01/05 06:23:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/01/05 06:23:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strinet.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/01/05 06:23:53  brian
.\" - doc updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/01/03 14:54:40  brian
.\" - documentation updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/01/03 12:30:25  brian
.\" - documentation updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/14 06:53:18  brian
.\" - added package manpage
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strinet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strinet.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH @PACKAGE_UCNAME@ 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.SH NAME
.B @PACKAGE@
\- the @PACKAGE_TITLE@ package
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This is the
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@ - @VERSION@ )
package for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
lfs
.]
.PP
OpenSS7
.I STREAMS
add-on packages are separate add-on packages to the
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
release that provide additional functionality and protocol support not traditionally found on UNIX
systems, or which have traditionally fallen into the domain of value-add system software, or, in
this case, where the functionality was optional or differently handled in a number of implementations.  The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package is one of several optional add-on packages that provide enhanced
.I STREAMS
support beyond that provided by the base
.I STREAMS
package.  This package provides support for Internet Protocols based on the
.IR "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)" ,
.BR tpi (7),
not provided by the base
.I STREAMS
package.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package provides
.IR STREAMS (9)
modules and drivers, libraries, programs, initialization scripts, and daemons that
implement and provide
networking protocols based on the transport layer of the OSI
reference model.
.[
x200
.]
.PP
The package currently provides the following
.IR STREAMS (9)
modules and drivers:
.ad l
.IP \(en \w'\(en\(em'u
.B streams_inet.ko
driver
.PD 0
.IP \(en
.B streams_rawip.ko
driver
.IP \(en
.B streams_tcp.ko
driver
.IP \(en
.B streams_udp.ko
driver
.ad b
.PD
.PP
The following are
.I STREAMS
drivers installed by the
.B @PACKAGE@
package:
.TP
.BR inet (4)
OpenSS7 INET
.I STREAMS
driver.
The
.BR inet (4)
driver provides the first generation approach to INET
.I STREAMS
drivers: it uses an in-kernel
.I STREAMS
over
.I Sockets
approach.
.TP
.BR rawip (4)
Raw Internet Protocol
.I STREAMS
driver.
The
.BR rawip (4)
dirver provides a second generation raw IP driver that is implemented entirely
using
.IR STREAMS .
.TP
.BR tcp (4)
Transmission Control Protocol
.I STREAMS
driver.
The
.BR tcp (4)
dirver provides a second generation TCP driver that will be implemented entirely
using
.IR STREAMS .
.TP
.BR udp (4)
User Datagram Protocol
.I STREAMS
driver.
The
.BR udp (4)
dirver provides a second generation UDP driver that is implemented entirely
using
.IR STREAMS .
.PD
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package includes kernel modules,
.I SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
.I STREAMS
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and
development environment for the development and execution of
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
protocol stack components and applications for the
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
environment.
.PP
This distribution is only currently applicable to
.B Linux
2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted at
.IR ix86 ", " x86_64 ", " ppc " and " ppc64
architectures, but should build and install for other architectures as well.
.PP
This package is complete and has been in production use for both
.I LiS
and
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
for a number of years.
.\"
.\"
.SH "PACKAGE CONTENTS"
.PP
The
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@ - @VERSION@ )
package contains the following manual pages:
.\"
.HP
.BR strinet (5)\ \-\ 
@PACKAGE_TITLE@ package.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR strinet_mknod (8)\ \-\ 
create or remove
.I STREAMS
INET device nodes.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BR xti_ip (3)\ \-\ 
X/Open Transport Interface - Corrigendum for Internet Protocol (IP) Conformance.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR xti_udp (3)\ \-\ 
X/Open Transport Interface - Corrigendum for User Datagram Protocol (UDP) Conformance.
.HP
.BR xti_tcp (3)\ \-\ 
X/Open Transport Interface - Corrigendum for Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) Conformance.
.HP
.BR t_kpalive (3)\ \-\ 
X/Open Transport Interface - Corrigendum for Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) Conformance.
.HP
.BR t_tcp_info (3)\ \-\ 
X/Open Transport Interface - Corrigendum for Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) Conformance.
.PD
.\"
.HP
.BR arp (4)\ \-\ 
User Datagram Protocol Stream.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR egp (4)\ \-\ 
Raw Internet Protocol Stream.
.HP
.BR ggp (4)\ \-\ 
Raw Internet Protocol Stream.
.HP
.BR icmp (4)\ \-\ 
Raw Internet Protocol Stream.
.HP
.BR idp (4)\ \-\ 
Raw Internet Protocol Stream.
.HP
.BR inet (4)\ \-\ 
OpenSS7 INET Devices.
.HP
.BR INET (4)\ \-\ 
OpenSS7 INET Devices.
.HP
.BR ip (4)\ \-\ 
Raw Internet Protocol Stream.
.HP
.BR ipip (4)\ \-\ 
Raw Internet Protocol Stream.
.HP
.BR pup (4)\ \-\ 
Raw Internet Protocol Stream.
.HP
.BR rawip (4)\ \-\ 
Raw Internet Protocol Stream.
.HP
.BR rawip2 (4)\ \-\ 
Raw Internet Protocol Stream.
.HP
.BR rip (4)\ \-\ 
User Datagram Protocol Stream.
.HP
.BR tcp (4)\ \-\ 
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP).
.HP
.BR tcp2 (4)\ \-\ 
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP).
.HP
.BR ticlts (4)\ \-\ 
connectionless loopback transport provider.
.HP
.BR ticots (4)\ \-\ 
connection oriented loopback provider.
.HP
.BR ticots_ord (4)\ \-\ 
connection oriented orderly release loopback provider.
.HP
.BR ticotsord (4)\ \-\ 
connection oriented orderly release loopback provider.
.HP
.BR udp (4)\ \-\ 
User Datagram Protocol Stream.
.HP
.BR udp2 (4)\ \-\ 
User Datagram Protocol Stream.
.PD
.\"
.HP
.BR tpi_ip (7)\ \-\ 
Transport Provider Interface (TPI) - Internet Protocol (IP) Corrigendum.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR tpi_udp (7)\ \-\ 
Transport Provider Interface (TPI) - User Datagram Protocol (UDP) Corrigendum.
.HP
.BR tpi_tcp (7)\ \-\ 
Transport Provider Interface (TPI) - Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) Corrigendum.
.PD
.\"
.SS "Test Programs"
.HP
.BR test-inet_raw (8)\ \-\ 
a test suite executable for the
.BR rawip (4)
.I STREAMS
driver.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR test-inet_tcp (8)\ \-\ 
a test suite executable for the
.BR tcp (4)
.I STREAMS
driver.
.HP
.BR test-inet_udp (8)\ \-\ 
a test suite executable for the
.BR udp (4)
.I STREAMS
driver.
.PD
.PP
In addition to these manual pages, the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package installs an
.IR "Installation and Reference Manual" .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR inet (4)
first generation INET driver.
.TP
.BR rawip (4)
second generation RAW IP driver.
.TP
.BR tcp (4)
second generation TCP driver.
.TP
.BR udp (4)
second generation UDP driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH PREREQUISITES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package requires the following packages to be installed:
.TP
.BR streams (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
base package.
.TP
.BR strcompat (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
compatibility modules package.
.TP
.BR strxns (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
X/Open Networking Services package.
.TP
.BR strxnet (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
XTI/TLI Library package.
.TP
.BR strnsl (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
Network Selection Library package.
.TP
.BR strsock (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
Sockets Library package.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although previous release of the
.B @PACKAGE@
package were tested with
.IR LiS ,
.I LiS
is now deprecated and this release
.RB ( @VERSION@ )
of
.B @PACKAGE@
has not been tested with
.IR LiS .
.I The OpenSS7 Project
will no longer support this package for
.IR LiS :
please upgrade to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
.I Production
releases are releases that have received exhaustive testing within the project
and validated on specific distributions and architectures.
.I Production
release packages do not ship with known defects.  Please rememaber that there
is
.B NO WARRANTY
on public release packages.
.PP
.I Production
packages ship containing a list of validated distributions and architectures.
Full regression testing of any maintenance changes is performed.  Suitability
of software in this category for production use on the specified target
distributions and architectures is at the discretion of the user.  It should
not be necessary to perform validation tests on the set of supported target
systems before considering production use.
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
could possibly contain unknown defects.  This is a
.I production
release.  Nevertheless, some remaining unknown defects could possibly be
harmful.  Validation testing has been performed by the
.I OpenSS7 Project
and external entities on this software for the set of systems listed in the
release notes.  Nevertheless, the software might still fail to configure or
compile on other systems.  The
.I OpenSS7 Project
recommends that you validate this software for your target system before using
this software.  Use at your own risk.  Remember that there is
.BR "NO WARRANTY" .
(See the section
.RI \(lq "NO WARRANTY" \(rq
under the
.RI \(lq "GNU General Public License" \(rq,
in the manual.)
.PP
This software is
.I production
software.  As such, it is stable on validated systems but might still crash
your kernel in unique circumstances.  Installation of the software on a
non-validated distribution might mangle your header files or Linux
distribution in such a way as to make it unusable and rebooting the system
might not repair the problem.  You possibly lose all the data on your system.
Because this software stands a chance of crashing your kernel, the resulting
unstable system could possibly destroy computer hardware or peripherals making
them unusable.  You might void the warranty on any system on which you run
this software.
.B YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package has been tested with a wide array of production
.B Linux
distributions, kernels, and target architectures, and is considered production grade by
.IR "The OpenSS7 Project" .
At the time of release, the
.B @PACKAGE@
package had no known bugs.  Problems can be reported to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
Please, however, use the included
.B send-pr
script for generating actionable problem reports.
Please see the file
.RI \(lq PROBLEMS \(rq
in the release for problem reporting guidelines.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR inet (4),
.BR tcp (4),
.BR udp (4),
.BR rawip (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package is compatible with
.I SVR 4.2
and systems based on
.I SVR 4.2
such as
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides compatibility with all implementations of the Internet Protocol suite
using the Transport Provider Interface Revision 1.5 or 2.0.0
specifications.
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IP \(em
These drivers are designed to operate with the XTI/TLI library implementation
provided by the
.BR strxnet (5)
package and is thus compatible with most XTI library implementations as well.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR TPI ,
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR "XNS 5.2" ,
.[
xns 5.2
.]
.IR UNIX95 .
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-inet_raw (8),
.BR test-inet_tcp "(8), and "
.BR test-inet_udp (8),
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package
was originally written for
.IR LiS ,
and contained the XTI/TLI library and
.BR timod (4)
and
.BR tirdwr (4)
modules.
The library and the
.BR timod (4)
and
.BR tirdwr (4)
modules were split from the
.BR strinet (5)
package and placed in their own
.BR strxnet (5)
package.  NSL library and Socket library functions were added to the
.BR strxnet (5)
package initially, but subsequently split to separate
.BR strsock (5)
and
.BR strnsl (5)
packages.
What remains in the
.BR strinet (5)
package is the header files, and
.I STREAMS
drivers, also TPI interface header files and documentation.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package is a stable, production grade release.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
.PP
The INET package is a stable production release and is largely in
maintenance mode.  There are, nevertheless, several items remaining to be
done.  See the
.RI \(lq TODO \(rq
file in the release for detailed information on further development.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
