@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: testsuite.texi,v 0.9.2.14 2007/06/21 22:43:19 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/06/21 22:43:19 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@menu
* Test Suites::			Test Suites for the package
* Problem Reports::		Problem Reports for the package
* Known Problems::		Known Problems with the package
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Test Suites
@section Test Suites
@cindex test suites

@menu
* Pre-installation Checks::	Tests performed before installation.
* Post-installation Checks::	Tests performed after installation.
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Pre-installation Checks
@subsection Pre-installation Checks
@cindex pre-installation checks

Most @cite{OpenSS7} packages, including the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package, ship with
pre-installation checks integral to the build system.  Pre-installation checks include check scripts
that are shipped in the @file{scripts} subdirectory as well as specialized @command{make} targets
that perform the checks.

When building and installing the package from @dfn{RPM} or @dfn{DEB} source packages
(@pxrefman{Building from the Source RPM}; and @refman{Building from the Debian DSC}), a fundamental set of
post-compile, pre-installation checks are performed prior to building binary packages.  This is
performed automatically and does not require any special actions on the part of the user creating
binary packages from source packages.

When building and installing the package from @dfn{tarball} (@pxrefman{Building from the Tar Ball}; and
@refman{Installing the Tar Ball}), however, pre-installation checks are only performed if specifically
invoked by the builder of the package.  Pre-installation checks are invoked after building the
package and before installing the package.  Pre-installation checks are performed by invoking the
@samp{check} or @samp{check.log} target to @command{make} when building the package, as shown
in @ref{testsuite:ex0}.

@cartouche
@float Example,testsuite:ex0
@caption{@emph{Invoking Pre-Installation Checks}}
@example
% wget http://www.openss7.org/@-@value{PACKAGE}@--@value{VERSION}@-.tar@-.bz2
% tar -xjvf @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2
% pushd @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
% ./configure
% make
% make check  # <------- invoke pre-installation checks
% popd
@end example
@end float
@end cartouche

Pre-installation checks fall into two categories: @dfn{System Checks} and @dfn{Maintenance Checks}.

@subsubsection Pre-Installation System Checks

@dfn{System Checks} are post-compilation checks that can be performed before installing the package
that check to ensure that the compiled objects function and will be successfully installed.  When
the @option{--enable-maintainer-mode} option has not been passed to @command{configure}, only
@dfn{System Checks} will be performed.

For example, the steps shown in @ref{testsuite:ex1} will perform @dfn{System} checks.

@cartouche
@float Example,testsuite:ex1
@caption{@emph{Invoking System Checks}}
@example
% wget http://www.openss7.org/@-@value{PACKAGE}@--@value{VERSION}@-.tar@-.bz2
% tar -xjvf @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2
% pushd @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
% ./configure
% make
% make check  # <------ invokes System pre-installation checks
% popd
@end example
@end float
@end cartouche

@subsubsection Pre-Installation Maintenance Checks

@dfn{Maintenance Checks} include all @dfn{System Checks}, but also checks to ensure that the kernel
modules, applications programs, header files, development tools, test programs, documentation,
and manual pages conform to @dfn{OpenSS7} standards.  When the @option{--enable-maintainer-mode}
option has been passed to @command{configure}, @dfn{Maintenance Checks} will be performed.

For example, the steps shown in @ref{testsuite:ex2} will perform @dfn{Maintenance} checks.

@cartouche
@float Example,testsuite:ex2
@caption{@emph{Invoking Maintenance Checks}}
@example
% wget http://www.openss7.org/@-@value{PACKAGE}@--@value{VERSION}@-.tar@-.bz2
% tar -xjvf @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2
% pushd @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
% ./configure --enable-maintainer-mode
% make
% make check  # <------ invokes Maintenance pre-installation checks
% popd
@end example
@end float
@end cartouche


@subsubsection Specific Pre-Installation Checks

A number of check scripts are provided in the @file{scripts} subdirectory of the distribution that
perform both @dfn{System} and @dfn{Maintenance} checks.  These are as follows:

@table @command
@item check_commands

This check performs both @dfn{System} and @dfn{Maintenance} checks.

When performing @dfn{System} tests, the following tests are performed:

Unless cross-compiling, or unless a program is included in @code{AM_INSTALLCHECK_STD_OPTIONS_EXEMPT}
every program in @code{bin_PROGRAMS}, @code{sbin_PROGRAMS}, and @code{libexec_PROGRAMS} is tested to
ensure that the @option{--help}, @option{--version}, and @option{--copying} options are accepted.
When cross-compiling is is not possible to execute cross-compiled binaries, and these checks are
skipped in that case.

Script executables, on the other hand, can be executed on the build host, so, unless listed in
@code{AM_INSTALLCHECK_STD_OPTIONS_EXEMPT}, every program in @code{dist_bit_SCRIPTS},
@code{dist_sbin_SCRIPTS}, and @code{pkglibexec_SCRIPTS} are tested to ensure that the
@option{--help}, @option{--version}, and @option{--copying} options are accepted.

When performing @dfn{Maintenance} tests, @command{check_commands} also checks to ensure that a
manual page exists in section 1 for every executable binary or script that will be installed from
@code{bin_PROGRAMS} and @code{dist_bin_SCRIPTS}.  It also checks to ensure that a manual page exists
in section 8 for every executable binary or script that will be installed from @code{sbin_PROGRAMS},
@code{dist_sbin_SCRIPTS}, @code{libexec_PROGRAMS}, and @code{pkglibexec_SCRIPTS}.

@item check_decls

This check only performs @dfn{Maintenance} checks.

It collects the results from the @code{check_libs}, @code{check_modules} and @code{check_headers}
check scripts and tests to ensure every declaration of a function prototype or external variable
contained in installed header files has a corresponding exported symbol from either a to be
installed shared object library or a to be installed kernel module.  Declarations are exempted from
this requirement if their identifiers have been explicitly added to the @code{EXPOSED_SYMBOL}
variable.  If @code{WARN_EXCESS} is set to @samp{yes}, then the check script will only warn when
excess declarations exist (without a corresponding exported symbol); otherwise, the check script
will generate an error and the check will fail.

@item check_headers

This check only performs @dfn{Maintenance} checks.

When performing @dfn{Maintenance} tests, it identifies all of the declarations included in to be
installed header files.  It then checks to ensure that a manual page exists in sections 2, 3, 7 or
9, as appropriate, for the type of declaration.  It also checks to see if a manual page source file
exists in the source directory for a declaration that has not been included in the distribution.
Function or prototype declarations that do not have a manual page in sections 2, 3, or 9 will cause
the check to fail.  Other declarations (@samp{variable}, @samp{externvar}, @samp{macro}, @samp{enumerate}, @samp{enum}, @samp{struct}, @samp{union},
@samp{typedef}, @samp{member}, etc.) will only warn if a manual page does not exist, but will not fail the check.

@item check_libs

This check only performs @dfn{Maintenance} checks.

When performing @dfn{Maintenance} tests, it checks that each exported symbol in each to be installed
shared object library has a manual page in section 3.  It also checks that each exported symbol has
a @samp{function}, @samp{prototype} or @samp{externvar} declaration in the to be installed header files.  A missing
declaration or manual page will cause this check to fail.

@item check_mans

This check only performs @dfn{Maintenance} checks.

When performing @dfn{Maintenance} tests, it checks that to be install manual pages can be formatted
for display without any errors or warnings from the build host @command{man} program.  It also
checks that required headings exist for manual pages according to the section in which the manual
page will be installed.  It warns if recommended headings are not included in the manual pages.
Because some @dfn{RPM} distributions have manual pages that might conflict with the package manual
pages, this check script also checks for conflicts with installed manual pages on the build host.
This check script also checks to ensure that all to be installed manual pages are used in some
fashion, that is, they have a declaration, or exported symbol, or are the name of a kernel module or
STREAMS module or driver, possibly capitalized.

Note that checking for conflicts with the build host should probably be included in the @dfn{System}
checks (because @dfn{System} checks are performed before the source @dfn{RPM} @code{%install}
scriptlet).

@item check_modules

This check performs both @dfn{System} and @dfn{Maintenance} checks.

When performing @dfn{System} tests, it checks each to be installed kernel module to ensure that all
undefined symbols can be resolved to either the kernel or another module.  It also checks whether an
exported or externally declared symbol conflicts with an exported or externally declared symbol
present in the kernel or another module.@footnote{This particular check has caught some name space
pollution that has occurred in the 2.6.11 kernel.}

When performing @dfn{Maintenance} tests, this check script tests that each to be installed kernel
module has a manual page in section 9 and that each exported symbol that does not begin with an
underscore, and that belongs to an exported function or exported variable, has a manual page in
section 9.  It also checks to ensure that each exported symbol that does not begin with an
underscore, and that belongs to an exported function or exported variable, has a @samp{function}, @samp{prototype}
or @samp{externvar} declaration in the to be installed header files.

@item check_streams

This check performs only @dfn{Maintenance} checks.

When performing @dfn{Maintenance} tests, it checks that for each configured @dfn{STREAMS} module or
driver, or device node, that a manual page exists in section 4 or section 7 as appropriate.

@end table

The output of the pre-installation tests are fairly self explanatory.  Each check script saves some
output to @file{@emph{name}.log}, where @emph{name} is the name of the check script as listed above.
A summary of the results of the test are display to standard output and can also be captured to the
@file{check.log} file if the @samp{check.log} target is used instead of the @samp{check}
target to @command{make}.

Because the check scripts proliferate @file{@emph{name}.log} files throughout the build directory, a
@samp{make check-clean} @command{make} target has be provided to clean them out.  @samp{make
check-clean} should be run before each successive run of @samp{make check}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Post-installation Checks
@subsection Post-installation Checks
@cindex post-installation checks

@menu
* Running Test Suites::		Running Test Suites in the package
@end menu

Most OpenSS7 packages ship with a compatibility and conformance test suite built using the
@samp{autotest} capabilities of @samp{autoconf}.  These test suites act as a wrapper for the
compatibility and conformance test programs that are shipped with the package.

Unlike the pre-installation checks, the post-installation checks are always run complete.  The only
check that post-installation test scripts perform is to test whether they have been invoked with
root privileges or not.  When invoked as root, or as a plain user, some tests might be skipped that
require root privileges, or that require plain user privileges, to complete successfully.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Running Test Suites
@subsubsection Running Test Suites
@cindex test suites, running

There are several ways of invoking the conformance test suites:

@enumerate

@item The test suites can be run after installation of the package by invoking the @samp{make
installcheck} or @samp{make installcheck.log} target.  Some packages require that root privileges be
acquired before invoking the package.

@item The test suites can be run from the distribution subdirectory after installation of the
package by invoking the @command{testsuite} shell script directly.

@item The test suites can be run standalone from the @file{libexec} (@file{@value{_libexecdir}})
installation directory by invoking the @command{testsuite} shell script directly.

@end enumerate

Typical steps for invoking the test suites directly from @command{make} are shown in
@ref{testsuite:ex3}.

@cartouche
@float Example,testsuite:ex3
@caption{@emph{Invoking System Checks}}
@example
% wget http://www.openss7.org/@-@value{PACKAGE}@--@value{VERSION}@-.tar@-.bz2
% tar -xjvf @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2
% pushd @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
% ./configure
% make
% make check  # <------ invokes System pre-installation checks
% make install
% sudo make installcheck # <------- invokes post-installation tests
% popd
@end example
@end float
@end cartouche

When performing post-installation checks for the purposes of generating a problem report, the checks
should always be performed from the build directory, either with @samp{make installcheck} or by
invoking @command{testsuite} directly from the @file{tests} subdirectory of the build directory.
This ensures that all of the information known to @command{configure} and pertinent to the
configuration of the system for which a test case failed, will be collected in the resulting
@file{testsuite.log} file deposited upon test suite failure in the @file{tests} directory.  This
@file{testsuite.log} file can then be attached as part of the problem report and provides rich
details to maintainers of the package.  See also @xrefman{Problem Reports}, below.

Typical steps for invoking and installed @command{testsuite} standalone are shown in
@ref{testsuite:ex4}.

@cartouche
@float Example,testsuite:ex4
@caption{@emph{Invoking @command{testsuite} Directly}}
@example
% [sudo] @value{_libexecdir}/@value{PACKAGE}/testsuite
@end example
@end float
@end cartouche

When invoked directly, @command{testsuite} will generate a @file{testsuite.log} file in the current
directory, and a @file{testsuite.dir} directory of failed tests cases and debugging scripts.  For
generating a problem report for failed test cases, see @refman{Stand Alone Problem Reports}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Problem Reports
@section Problem Reports
@cindex problem reports
@cindex bugs, reporting
@cindex reporting bugs

@menu
* Problem Report Guidelines::
* Generating Problem Reports::
* Automatic Problem Reports::
* Stand Alone Problem Reports::
@end menu

@node Problem Report Guidelines
@subsection Problem Report Guidelines

Problem reports in the following categories should include a log file as indicated in the table
below:

@table @samp

@item ./configure
A problem with the configuration process occurs that causes the @samp{./configure} command to fail.
The problem report must include the @file{config.log} file that was generated by
@command{configure}.

@item make compile.log
A problem with the build process occurs that causes the @samp{make} command to fail.  Perform
@samp{make clean} and then @samp{make compile.log} and attach the @file{config.log} and
@file{compile.log} files to the problem report.

@item make check.log
A problem occurs with the @samp{make check} target that causes it to fail.  Perform @samp{make
check-clean check.log} and attach the @file{config.log}, @file{compile.log} and @file{check.log}
files to the problem report.

@item sudo make install.log
A problem occurs with @samp{sudo make install} that causes it to fail.  Perform @samp{sudo make
uninstall} and @samp{sudo make install.log} and attach the @file{config.log}, @file{compile.log},
@file{check.log}, and @file{install.log} files to the problem report.

@item [sudo] make installcheck.log
A problem occurs with the @samp{make installcheck} target that causes the test suite to fail.
Attach the resulting @file{tests/testsuite.log} and @file{installcheck.log} file to the problem
report.  There is no need to attach the other files as they are included in
@file{tests/testsuite.log}.

@item [sudo] make uninstall.log
A problem occurs with the @samp{make uninstall} target that causes the test suite to fail.  Perform
@samp{sudo make uninstall.log} and attach the @file{config.log}, @file{compile.log},
@file{check.log}, @file{install.log}, @file{installcheck.log}, @file{tests/testsuite.log} and
@file{uninstall.log} file to the problem report.

@item [sudo] make remove.log
A problem occurs with the @samp{make remove} target that causes the test suite to fail.  Perform
@samp{sudo make remove.log} and attach the @file{config.log}, @file{compile.log}, @file{check.log},
@file{install.log}, @file{installcheck.log}, @file{tests/testsuite.log} and @file{remove.log} file
to the problem report.

@end table

For other problems that occur during the use of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package, please
write a test case for the test suite that recreates the problem if one does not yet exist and
provide a test program patch with the problem report.  Also include whatever log files are generated
by the kernel (@code{cmn_err(9)}) or by the @command{strerr(8)} or @command{strace(1)} facilities
(@code{strlog(9)}).

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Generating Problem Reports
@subsection Generating Problem Reports
@cindex generating problem reports
@cindex bug reports, generating
@cindex generating bug reports

@cite{The OpenSS7 Project} uses the @cite{GNU GNATS} system for problem reporting.  Although the
@samp{send-pr} tool from the @cite{GNU GNATS} package can be used for bug reporting to the project's
@cite{GNATS} database using electronic mail, it is not always convenient to download and install the
@cite{GNATS} system to gain access to the @samp{send-pr} tool.

Therefore, the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides the @samp{send-pr} shell script that
can be used for problem reporting.  The @samp{send-pr} shell script can invoked directly and is a
work-alike for the @cite{GNU} @samp{send-pr} tool.

The @samp{send-pr} tool takes the same flags and can be used in the same fashion, however, whereas
@samp{send-pr} is an interactive tool@footnote{@samp{send-pr} launches the user's @var{EDITOR} to
edit the problem report before submitting it.}, @samp{send-pr} is also able to perform batch
processing.  Whereas @samp{send-pr} takes its field information from local databases or from using
the @samp{query-pr} C-language program to query a remote database, the @samp{send-pr} tool has the
field database internal to the tool.

Problem reports can be generate using @command{make}, @xrefman{Problem Report Targets}.  An example of
how simple it is to generate a problem report is illustrated in @ref{autopr:ex0}.
@mkindex pr

@cartouche
@float Example,autopr:ex0
@caption{@emph{Invoking Problem Report Generation}}
@example
% make pr
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: send-pr:  send-pr was invoked to generate an external report.  An
SEND-PR: automated problem report has been created in the file named
SEND-PR: 'problem.pr' in the current directory.  This problem report can
SEND-PR: be sent to bugs@@openss7.org by calling this script as
SEND-PR: '/home/brian/os7/scripts/send-pr --file="problem.pr"'.
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: It is possible to edit some of the fields before sending on the
SEND-PR: problem report.  Please remember that there is NO WARRANTY.  See
SEND-PR: the file 'COPYING' in the top level directory.
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: Please do not send confidential information to the bug report
SEND-PR: address.  Inspect the file 'problem.pr' for confidential
SEND-PR: information before mailing.
SEND-PR:
% vim problem.pr  # <--- follow instructions at head of file
% make send-pr
@end example
@end float
@end cartouche

Using the @samp{make pr} target to generate a problem report has the advantages that it will
assemble any available @file{*.log} files in the build directory and attach them to the problem
report.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Automatic Problem Reports
@subsection Automatic Problem Reports
@cindex generating problem reports automatically
@cindex bug reports, automatic generation
@cindex generating bug reports automatically

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package also provides a feature for automatic problem report
generation that meets the problem report submission guidelines detailed in the preceding sections.

Whenever a logging makefile target (@pxrefman{Logging Targets}) is invoked, if the primary target
fails, the @command{send-pr} shell script is invoked to automatically generate a problem report
file suitable for the corresponding target (as described above under @pxrefman{Problem Report
Guidelines}).  An example is shown in @ref{autopr:ex2}.

@cartouche
@float Example,autopr:ex2
@caption{@emph{Problem Report from Failed Logging Target}}
@example
% make compile.log
...
...
make[5]: *** [libXNSdrvs_a-ip.o] Error 1
make[5]: Leaving directory `/u6/buildel4/strxns'
make[4]: *** [all-recursive] Error 1
make[4]: Leaving directory `/u6/buildel4/strxns'
make[3]: *** [all] Error 2
make[3]: Leaving directory `/u6/buildel4/strxns'
make[2]: *** [all-recursive] Error 1
make[2]: Leaving directory `/u6/buildel4'
make[1]: *** [all] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/u6/buildel4'
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: send-pr:  Make target compile.log failed in the compile stage.  An
SEND-PR: automated problem report has been created in the file named
SEND-PR: 'problem.pr' in the current directory.  This problem report can
SEND-PR: be sent to bugs@@openss7.org by calling 'make send-pr'.
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: It is possible to edit some of the fields before sending on the
SEND-PR: problem report.  Please remember that there is NO WARRANTY.  See
SEND-PR: the file 'COPYING' in the top level directory.
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: Please do not send confidential information to the bug report
SEND-PR: address.  Inspect the file 'problem.pr' for confidential
SEND-PR: information before mailing.
SEND-PR:
% vim problem.pr  # <--- follow instructions at head of file
% make send-pr
@end example
@end float
@end cartouche

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Stand Alone Problem Reports
@subsection Stand Alone Problem Reports
@cindex generating problem reports stand alone
@cindex bug reports, stand along generation
@cindex generating bug reports

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package installs the @command{send-pr} script and its configuration
file @file{send-pr.config} in @file{$@{libexecdir@}/@value{PACKAGE}} along with the validation
@command{testsuite}, see @xrefman{Test Suites}.  As with the @command{testsuite}, this allows the
@command{send-pr} script to be used for problem report generation on an installed system that does
not have a build directory.

An example of invoking the package @command{testsuite} and then generating a problem report for
failed cases is shown in @ref{autopr:ex3}.

@cartouche
@float Example,autopr:ex3
@caption{@emph{Invoking @command{send-pr} Directly}}
@example
% [sudo] @value{_libexecdir}/@value{PACKAGE}/testsuite
% # test cases failed...
% @value{_libexecdir}/@value{PACKAGE}/send-pr
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: send-pr:  send-pr was invoked to generate an external report.  An
SEND-PR: automated problem report has been created in the file named
SEND-PR: 'problem.pr' in the current directory.  This problem report can
SEND-PR: be sent to bugs@@openss7.org by calling this script as
SEND-PR: '@value{_libexecdir}/@value{PACKAGE}/send-pr --file problem.pr'.
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: It is possible to edit some of the fields before sending on the
SEND-PR: problem report.  Please remember that there is NO WARRANTY.  See
SEND-PR: the file 'COPYING' in the top level directory.
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: Please do not send confidential information to the bug report
SEND-PR: address.  Inspect the file 'problem.pr' for confidential
SEND-PR: information before mailing.
SEND-PR:
% vim problem.pr  # <--- follow instructions at head of file
% @value{_libexecdir}/@value{PACKAGE}/send-pr --file problem.pr
@end example
@end float
@end cartouche

The advantage of the approach shown in the example is that the @command{send-pr} script is capable
of collecting the @file{testsuite.log} file and the failed test cases and debugging scripts from the
@file{testsuite.dir} directory and including them in the problem report, as well as all package
pertinent information from the installed @file{send-pr.config}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Known Problems
@section Known Problems
@cindex known problems
@cindex problems, known

@cite{The OpenSS7 Project} does not ship software with known bugs.  All bugs are unknown.

Verified behaviour is that behaviour that has been verified by conformance test suites that are
shipped with the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

Unverified behaviour may contain unknown bugs.

Please remember that there is @strong{NO WARRANTY}.

See also @refman{Bugs}, or file @file{BUGS} in the release directory.
