% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: LiS.texi,v 1.1.6.1 2005/03/09 23:13:43 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/09 23:13:43 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================

\input texinfo
@setfilename LiS.info
@settitle Linux STREAMS (LiS)
@setchapternewpage off

@dircategory Kernel
@direntry
* Linux STREAMS: (lis).                 STREAMS for Linux
@end direntry

@set xref-automatic-section-title

@set UPDATED 13 December 2003
@set UPDATED-MONTH December 2003
@set VERSION 2.16.16
@set EDITION 2.16.16

@defindex op

@ifinfo
This file documents Linux STREAMS (LiS) @value{VERSION}

Copyright 2003-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation
All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the results,
provided the printed document carries copying permission notice identical to
this one except for the removal of this paragraph.

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distributed modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the above conditions for modified versions, except
that this permission notice must be stated in a translation approved by the
Free Software Foundation.
@end ifinfo

@iftex
@shorttitlepage The Linux STREAMS (LiS) Reference Manual
@end iftex
@titlepage
@title Linux STREAMS (LiS)
@subtitle For verion @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Brian Bidulock  @cite{@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}}

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation @url{http://www.openss7.com} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock @*
All Rights Reserved. @*

Published by OpenSS7 Corporation @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

This is the first edition of the Linux STREAMS documentation, and is
consistent with Linux STREAMS (LiS) @value{VERSION}.  This manual was
developed under the OpenSS7 Project @url{http://www.openss7.org} and was
funded in part by HOB International.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distributed modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the above conditions for modified versions, except
that this permission notice must be stated in a translation approved by the
Free Software Foundation.
@end titlepage
@page

@c Define an index of configure output variables.
@c @defcodeindex ov
@c Define an index of configure variables.
@c @defcodeindex cv
@c Define an index of options.
@c @defcodeindex op
@c Define an index of targets.
@c @defcodeindex tr
@c Define an index of commands.
@c @defcodeindex cm

@c Put the macros and variables into their own index.
@c @syncodeindex fn cp
@c @syncodeindex ov vr
@c @syncodeindex cv vr
@c @syncodeindex fn vr

@c Put everything else into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the concept index).
@c @syncodeindex op cp
@c @syncodeindex tr cp
@c @syncodeindex cm cp

@node Top, Copying, (dir), (dir)
@top Linux STREAMS (LiS)
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up
This file documents the Linux STREAMS (LiS) package.  Linux STREAMS is a
System V Release 4.2 compatible STREAMS subsystem for Linux.  This edition
documents version @value{VERSION}.

@ifnottex

@menu
* Copying::			Lesser GNU Public License
* License::			GNU Free Documentation License

* Introduction::		STREAMS for Linux?
@end menu

@end ifnottex

@node Copying, License, Top, Top
@c @include info/lesser.texi

@node License, Introduction, Copying, Top
@c @include info/fdl.texi

@node Introduction, (dir), License, Top
@chapter Introduction

STREAMS for Linux?

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye
