'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strchg.1.man,v 0.9.2.10 2005/07/16 22:03:17 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/07/16 22:03:17 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strutil.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strutil.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH STRCHG 1 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ User Commands"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strchg
\- changes stream configuration
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBstrchg\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-h\fR|\fB--push\fR}\fI module\fR[,\fImodule\fR ...]
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBstrchg\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-p\fR|\fB--pop\fR} [{\fB-a\fR|\fB--all\fR} | {\fB-u\fR|\fB--upto\fR}\fI module\fR]
.HP 12
\fBstrchg\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-f\fR|\fB--file\fR}\fI filename\fR
.HP 12
\fBstrchg\fR {\fB-H\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstrchg\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstrchg\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B strchg
command is used to alter the configuration of the stream associated with the
caller's standard input.  The
.B strchg
command pushes modules on the stream, pops modules off of the stream, or both.
Only the root user or owner of the
.I STREAMS
device can alter the configuration of that stream.  If another user attempts
to alter the configuration, the
.B strchg
command will fail.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--push\fI module\fR[,\fImodule\fR ...]
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--pop\fR
Pops a module off of a stream.  Used along, the
.B -p
option pops the topmost module from the stream.  May also be combined with the
.BR -u " or " -a
options below.
.RS
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--all\fR
Pops all modules above the topmost driver off of a stream.
The
.B -p
option must be used in front of the
.B -a
flag.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--upto\fI module\fR
Pops all modules above the specified
.I module
off of a stream.
The
.B -p
option must be used in front of the
.B -u
flag.
.RE
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--file\fI filename\fR
Pushes and pops the necessary modules to conform the stream to the
configuration given in the specified file.
.PP
Only one of
.BR -h ", " -p " or " -f
options may be specified.
.PP
The following options are non-portable:
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--debug\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increases or sets to \fIlevel\fR the debug verbosity, typically for debugging purposes.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increases or sets to \fIlevel\fR the output verbosity, typically for diagnostic purposes.
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Suppresses normal output.
.TP
\fB-H\fR, \fB--help\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B strchg
displays usage information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B strchg
displays version information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B strchg
displays copyright and copying information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
The
.B strchg
configuration file contains a list of modules representing the desired
configuration of the stream.  Each module must appear on a separate line,
where the first name represents the topmost module and the last name
represents the module that is closest to the driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
On successful completion, the
.B strchg
command returns a value of zero (0).
Otherwise, it returns a nonzero value and prints an error message indicating
usage error, a bad module name, too many modules to push, failure of a
.BR streamio (7)
operation on the stream, or failure to open the file specified by the
.I filename
argument.
.PP
.B strchg
returns zero on success.  It prints an error message and returns non-zero
status for various error conditions, including usage error, bad module name,
too many modules to push, failure of an ioctl on n the stream, or failure to
open file from the
.B -f
option.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
If modules are pushed in the wrong order, the stream might not function as
expected.
.PP
If the caller is neither the owner of the stream nor the superuser, the
.B strchg
command will fail.
.PP
If modules are pushed in the wrong order, one could end up with a stream that
does not function as expected.  For ttys, if the line discipline modules is
not pushed in the correct place, one could have a terminal that does not
respond to any commands.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/bin/strchg
contains the
.B strchg
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR strconf (1),
.BR strreset (1).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B strchg
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/VP \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em
.I SVR 4.2
does not document long options.
The use of long options should be avoided by portable programs.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ", " --debug ", " --verbose " and " --quiet ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" ; 
.[
svr42cr
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
and
.IR UXP/VP \(rg,
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B strchg
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
