'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strlog.1.man,v 0.9.2.1 2005/07/18 06:18:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/07/18 06:18:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strutil.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strutil.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH STRLOG 1 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ User Commands"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strlog
\- write a message to the \fISTREAMS\fR logger
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
\fBstrlog\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIMESSAGE\fR \fI...\fR]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBstrlog\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBstrlog\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBstrlog\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--mid\fR \fIMODULEID\fR
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--sid\fR \fIUNITID\fR
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--priority\fR \fIPRIORITY\fR
Specify the concatenated system log facility and level for the log message.
.I PRIORITY
can either be specified as a numeric value, or as a symbolic name using a dot notation:
.IR facility . level ;
where,
.RS
.TP
.I facility
is the log facility, and can be one of the following symbols:
.RS
.TP
.B auth
.RE
.TP
.I level
.RE
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--file\fR \fIFILE\fR
Provided for compatibility with
.BR logger (1);
when this option is specified, any
.I MESSAGE
arguments are ingored and logger input is taken from
.IR FILE .
If
.I FILE
is
.RB \(lq - \(rq,
then
.I stdin
is read instead of a file.
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--tag\fR \fITAG\fR
Provided for compatibility with
.BR logger (1);
this option is ignored.
.TP
\fB-i\fR, \fB--id\fR
Provided for compatibility with
.BR logger (1);
this option is ignored.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--stderr\fR
Provided for compatibility with
.BR logger (1);
this option causes the output to also be written to
.IR stderr ,
in a format similar to that provided by the
.I STREAMS
.BR strace (8)
and
.BR strerr (8)
loggers.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--use\fR \fIDEVICE\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
\fR[\fIMESSAGE\fR \fI...\fR]
Zero or more message strings to be logged, concatentated together with a single space between them.
If no
.I MESSAGE
argument is specified, and option
.B -f
is not given, then the message strings will be read from
.IR stdin .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/bin/strlog
contains the
.B strlog
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR logger (1),
.BR strlog (4),
.BR strlog (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
