'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_SAVE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ap_save
\- save the XAP environment to a file
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface,
APLI,
.[
apli unix international
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libapli (3),
.BR libxap (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.br
.BI "in ap_save(int " fd ", FILE *" savef ", unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
A file descriptor that identifies the XAP instance.
.TP
.I savef
A file pointer representing the open file stream to which to save the XAP
instance.
.TP
.I aperrno_p
A pointer to a memory element into which to receive an error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Used in conjunction with
.BR ap_restore (3),
this function provides a way for cooperating processes to share an instance of
XAP.  The
.BR ap_save ()
function writes a \(lqsnapshot\(rq of XAP instance identified by
.IR fd ,
to the file identified by
.IR savef .
Included in the saved information are the values of all XAP environment
attributes and any internal state information needed to recreate this XAP
instance: see
.BR ap_restore (3).
.PP
.I savef
must have been opened for writing.  The
.BR ap_save ()
function begins writing from the current position in the file and does not
close
.I savef
when it finishes.
.PP
The
.BR ap_save ()
function does not directly support any form of process coordination.  However,
the user can, for example, use the file permission and file and record locking
capabilities of the operating system with the save file to facilitate
coordination of cooperating processes sharing a single XAP instance.
.PP
.I aperrno_p
must be set to point to a location which will be used to carry an error code
back to the user.
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
See
.BR ap_env (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of zero
.RB ( 0 )
is returned.  Otherwise, a value of minus one
.RB ( -1 )
is returned and the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADF ]
The
.I fd
parameter does not identify an XAP instance.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADSAVE ]
The environment cannot be saved because the current environment is being used
to send or receive data (i.e., utilizing the
.B AP_MORE
bit).
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADSAVEF ]
.I savef
was opened improperly.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOENV ]
There is no XAP environment associated with
.IR fd .
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOT_SUPPORTED ]
The
.BR ap_save ()
operattion is not supported by this implementation of XAP.
.PP
In addition, operating system class errors are reported.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The OpenSS7 XAP Library and cooperating modules and drivers implement the XAP
environment attributes as XTI options and using input-output controls.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ap_restore (3),
.BR ap_env (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ap_save ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ap_save ()
is compatible with XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and implementations based on XAP, such as
.IR "Solaris SUnLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
and
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.
Binary compatibility is not
attempted: any exhibited binary compatibility is coincidental and is scheduled
to be removed on the next release.
See
.BR APLI (3)
and
.BR XAP (3)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
with Corrigendum change XAP-1.5.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_save ()
first appeared in XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
