'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man3/apli_get_env.3.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_GET_ENV 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ap_get_env
\- get APLI environment attribute.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface (APLI).
.[
APLI UNIX International
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ap_lib.h>
.br
.B #include <osi_lib.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_get_env(
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI "int " fd ,
.HP
.BI "unsigned long " attr ,
.HP
.BI "void *" val
.RE
.HP
.BI );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
.TP
.I attr
.TP
.I val
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function retrieves the value of the enviroment attribute,
.IR attr ,
for the service provider identified by the file descriptor,
.IR fd .
Valid attribute names are listed in
.BR ap_env (3).
.PP
The value supplied to this function as the
.I val
argument depends on which attribute is to be examined.  In all cases,
.I val
must point to an object of the same type as the specified attribute.
.PP
For example, if the type of the attribute is
.BR long ,
.I val
must point to a
.BR long ;
if the type is
.BR ap_dcs_t ,
.I val
must point to an
.B ap_dcs_t
structure.
.PP
If the object pointed to by
.I val
is either a pointer or a structure that includes pointers (for example,
.BR ap_dcs_t ),
APLI allocates additional memory and assigns proper values to the pointer elements as requred.  The
memory allocated to the environment attributes by
.BR ap_get_env ()
can be released by calling
.BR ap_free (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of zero (0) is returned; otherwise, minus one (-1) is returned
and
.BR ap_errno (3)
is set to indicate the error.  The corresponding error message is returned by calling the
.BR ap_error (3)
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOATTR ]
\- no such attribute.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOENV ]
\- no environment for that \fIfd\fP.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOREAD ]
\- attribute is not reabable.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOMEM ]
\- could not allocate enough memory.
.PP
Also, operating system class errors may be reported.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
The following example shows how
.BR ap_get_env ()
can be used to return the current state,
.RB AP_STATE ,
and check for the state
.BR AP_IDLE .
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#include <ap_lib.h>
#include <osi_lib.h>

int
GetApliState(int fd)
{
    int rc;
    unsigned long state;

    rc = ap_get_env(fd, AP_STATE, &state);
    if ((rc != 0) && (state != APIDLE)) {
        printf("Error in ap_get_env %s \\n", ap_error());
        return (FAIL);
    }
    return (SUCCESS);
}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/oopi ", " /dev/streams/clone/oopi
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ap_init_env (3),
.BR ap_save (3),
.BR ap_restore (3),
.BR ap_set_env (3),
.BR ap_env (3),
.BR APLI (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ap_get_env ()
is compatible with APLI,
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
and implementation based on APLI such as
.IR "Solaris\(rg SunLink OSI" ,
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
.IR "Solaris\(rg Solstice OSI" ,
.IR "HP OSI Transport Services/9000 (OTS/9000)" ,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
.IR "SVR 4.2 Open Network Services (ONS)" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR APLI (3)
and
.BR STREAMS (4)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
APLI.
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_get_env ()
first appeared in APLI.
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 APLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T2
