'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: apli_init_env.3.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:17:59 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:17:59 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: apli_init_env.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:17:59  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_INIT_ENV 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ap_init_env
\- initialize APLI environment attributes.
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface (APLI).
.[
APLI UNIX International
.]
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ap_lib.h>
.br
.B #include <osi_lib.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_init_env(
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI "int " fd ,
.HP
.BI "const char *" env_file ,
.HP
.BI "int " flags
.RE
.HP
.BI );
.PD
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
.TP
.I env_file
.TP
.I flags
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function initializes the APLI environment for the service provider identified by the file
descriptor,
.IR fd .
The argument,
.IR flags ,
is unused and the pointer,
.IR env_file ,
is ignored by the SunLink implementation of APLI.  The
.I env_file
elements are always set to their default valuues unless chaged dynamically using the function
.BR ap_set_env (3).
.PP
This function must be called to initialize each APLI instance created by calling the
.BR ap_open (3)
function, that returns the file descriptor,
.IR fd .
Calling
.BR ap_init_env ()
allocates memory for the environment attributes and sets the environment attributes to their default
values.
.PP
See
.BR ap_env (3)
for a detailed descriptoin of the APLI environment including the default values allocated to each
attribute.
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of zero (0) is returned.  Otherwise, a value of minus one (-1)
is returned and
.BR ap_errno (3)
is set to indicate the error.  The corresponding error message is returned by calling the
.BR ap_error (3)
function.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADF ]
\- not a presentation service endpoint.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOATTR ]
\- no such attribute.
.TP
.RB [ AP_ACCES ]
\- request to bind to specified address denied.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOWRITE ]
\- attribute is not writable.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOMEM ]
\- could not allocate enough memory.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example shows how
.BR ap_init_env ()
can be used to intialize the environment of an APLI instance identified by the file descriptor,
.IR fd .
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#include <ap_lib.h>
#include <osi_lib.h>

int
InitApliEnv(int fd)
{
    if (ap_init_env(fd, NULL, 0) != SUCCESS) {
        printf("Error in ap_init_env %s \\n", ap_error());
        return (FAIL);
    }
    return (SUCCESS);
}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/oopi ", " /dev/streams/clone/oopi
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ap_init_env ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ap_set_env (3),
.BR ap_get_env (3),
.BR APLI (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ap_init_env ()
is compatible with APLI,
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
and implementation based on APLI such as
.IR "Solaris\(rg SunLink OSI" ,
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
.IR "Solaris\(rg Solstice OSI" ,
.IR "HP OSI Transport Services/9000 (OTS/9000)" ,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
.IR "SVR 4.2 Open Network Services (ONS)" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Neither
.IR Solaris \(rg
not
.IR HP-UX \(rg
support the
.I env_file
argument.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
ignores the
.I flags
argument.
.PP
See
.BR APLI (3)
and
.BR STREAMS (4)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
APLI.
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_init_env ()
first appeared in APLI.
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 APLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T2
