'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH BIND 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B bind
\- bind a name to a socket
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.HP
.BI "int bind(int " socket ", const struct sockaddr *" address ", socklen_t " address_len );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The function takes the following arguments:
.TP
.I socket
Specifies the file descriptor of the socket to be bound.
.TP
.I address
Points to a
.B sockaddr
structure containing the address to be bound to the socket.  The length and
format of the address depend on the address family of the socket.
.TP
.I address_len
Specifies the length of the
.B sockaddr
structure pointed to by the
.I address
argument.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR bind ()
function assigns an address to an unnamed socket.  Sockets
created with the
.BR socket (3)
function are initially unnamed; they are
identified only by their address family.
.PP
The socket in use may require the process to have appropriate privileges
to use the
.BR bind ()
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
An application program can retrieve the assigned socket name with the
.BR getsockname (3)
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
This system call is implemented as a
.B SIOCSOCKSYS
IOCTL.  See
.BR socksys (4)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.BR bind ()
returns 0.  Otherwise, -1 is returned
and
.IR errno (3)
is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The
.BR bind ()
function will fail if:
.TP
.RB [ EADDRINUSE ]
The specified address is already in use.
.TP
.RB [ EADDRNOTAVAIL ]
The specified address is not available from the local machine.
.TP
.RB [ EAFNOSUPPORT ]
The specified address is not a valid address for the address family of the
specified socket.
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
The socket argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ EFAULT ]
The address argument can not be accessed.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The socket is already bound to an address, and the protocol does not
support binding to a new address; or the socket has been shut down.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTSOCK ]
The socket argument does not refer to a socket.
.TP
.RB [ EOPNOTSUPP ]
The socket type of the specified socket does not support binding to an
address.
.PP
If the address family of the socket is
.BR AF_UNIX ,
then
.BR bind ()
will fail if:
.TP
.RB [ EACCES ]
A component of the path prefix denies search permission, or the requested name
requires writing in a directory with a mode that denies write permission.
.TP
.RB [ EDESTADDRREQ "] or [" EISDIR ]
The address argument is a null pointer.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
An I/O error occurred.
.TP
.RB [ ELOOP ]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname in
address.
.TP
.RB [ ENAMETOOLONG ]
A component of a pathname exceeded
.RI { NAME_MAX }
characters, or an entire
pathname exceeded
.RI { PATH_MAX }
characters.
.TP
.RB [ ENOENT ]
A component of the pathname does not name an existing file or the pathname
is an empty string.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTDIR ]
A component of the path prefix of the pathname in address is not a
directory.
.TP
.RB [ EROFS ]
The name would reside on a read-only filesystem.
.PP
The
.BR bind ()
function may fail if:
.TP
.RB [ EACCES ]
The specified address is protected and the current user does not have
permission to bind to it.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The address_len argument is not a valid length for the address family.
.TP
.RB [ EISCONN ]
The socket is already connected.
.TP
.RB [ ENAMETOOLONG ]
Pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an intermediate result whose
length exceeds
.IR { PATH_MAX }.
.TP
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
Insufficient resources were available to complete the call.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
There were insufficient STREAMS resources for the operation to complete.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR connect (3),
.BR getsockname (3),
.BR listen (3),
.BR socket (3),
.BR <sys/socket.h> (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This function and sockets implementation is compatible to
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
including
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Where 4BSD differs from POSIX, this function follows POSIX.
.[
susv3
.]
.PP
See
.BR sockets (3)
and
.BR socklib (3)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The Open Group XNS Issue 5.2.
.[
xns 5.2
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Most sockets functions first appeared in
.IR "4BSD" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
