'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man3/dlpi.3.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DLPI 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 DLPI Library"
.\" =========================================================================
.SH NAME
.B DLPI, dlpi, libdlpi
\- Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) Subroutines
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
DLPI
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
Library.
.br
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
and proprietary.
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libdlpi (3),
the
.IR "DLPI Library" .
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.nh
.PP
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dlpi.h>
.br
.B #include <dlpi.h>
.HP
\fBuint\ dlpi_arptype\fP(\fBuint\fP\ \fImactype\fP);
.PD 0
.HP
\fBint\ dlpi_bind\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP, \fBuint\fP\ \fIsap\fP, \fBuint\ *\fP\fIboundsap\fP);
.HP
\fBvoid\ dlpi_close\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP);
.HP
\fBint\ dlpi_disabmulti\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP, \fBconst\ void\ *\fP\fImaddr_ptr\fP, \fBsize_t\fP\ \fImaddr_len\fP);
.HP
\fBint\ dlpi_disabnotify\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP, \fBdlpi_notifyid_t\fP\ \fIid\fP, \fBvoid\ **\fP\fIargp\fP);
.HP
\fBint\ dlpi_enabmulti\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP, \fBconst\ void\ *\fP\fImaddr_ptr\fP, \fBsize_t\fP\ \fImaddr_len\fP);
.HP
\fBint\ dlpi_enabnotify\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP, \fBuint\fP\ \fInotes\fP, \fBdlpi_notifyfunc_t\ *\fIfuncp\fP, \fBvoid\ *\fP\fIarg\fP, \fBdlpi_notifyid_t\ *\fP\fIidp\fP);
.HP
\fBint\ dlpi_fd\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP);
.HP
\fBint\ dlpi_get_physaddr\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP, \fBuint\fP\ \fItype\fP, \fBvoid\ *\fP\fIpaddr_ptr\fP, \fBsize_t\ *\fP\fIpaddr_len\fP);
.HP
\fBuint\ dlpi_iftype\fP(\fBuint\fP\ \fImactype\fP);
.HP
\fBint\ dlpi_info\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP, \fBdlpi_info_t\ *\fP\fIinfop\fP, \fBuint\fP\ \fIoptions\fP);
.HP
\fBconst\ char\ *dlpi_linkname\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP);
.HP
\fBconst\ char\ *dlpi_mactype\fP(\fBuint\fP\ \fImactype\fP);
.HP
\fBint\ dlpi_open\fP(\fBconst\ char\ *\fP\fIlinkname\fP, \fBdlpi_handle_t\ *\fP\fIdhp\fP, \fBuint\fP\ \fIflags\fP);
.HP
\fBint\ dlpi_promiscoff\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP, \fBuint\fP\ \fIlevel\fP);
.HP
\fBint\ dlpi_promiscon\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP, \fBuint\fP\ \fIlevel\fP);
.HP
\fBint\ dlpi_recv\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP, \fBvoid\ *\fP\fIsaddr_ptr\fP, \fBsize_t\ *\fP\fIsaddr_len\fP, \fBvoid\ *\fP\fIdata_ptr\fP, \fBsize_t\ *\fP\fIdata_len\fP, \fBint\fP\ \fImsec\fP, \fBdlpi_recvinfo_t\ *\fP\fIrecvp\fP);
.HP
\fBint\ dlpi_send\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP, \fBconst\ void\ *\fP\fIdaddr_ptr\fP, \fBsize_t\fP\ \fIdaddr_len\fP, \fBconst\ void\ *\fP\fIdata_ptr\fP, \fBsize_t\fP\ \fIdata_len\fP, \fBconst\ dlpi_sendinfo_t\ *\fP\fIsendp\fP);
.HP
\fBint\ dlpi_set_physaddr\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP, \fBuint\fP\ \fItype\fP, \fBconst\ void\ *\fP\fIpaddr_ptr\fP, \fBsize_t\fP\ \fIpaddr_len\fP);
.HP
\fBint\ dlpi_set_timeout\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP, \fBint\fP\ \fImsec\fP);
.HP
\fBconst\ char\ *dlpi_strerror\fP(\fBint\fP\ \fIerror\fP);
.HP
\fBint\ dlpi_unbind\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP);
.HP
\fBvoid\ dlpi_walk\fP(\fBdlpi_walkfunc_t\ *\fP\fIfuncp\fP, \fBvoid\ *\fP\fIarg\fP, \fBuint\fP\ \fIflags\fP);
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
.B libdlpi
is an
.B OpenSS7
implementation of the
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library
.[
soldoc11
.]
for
.BR Linux .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.I DLPI Library
is a library of DLPI helper and utility functions designed for use with the Data
Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR dlpi (7).
The original library was designed by
.IR "Sun Microsystems, Inc." ,
.RB < http://www.sun.com/ >,
and first documented
.[
soldoc10
.]
in
.IR Solaris "\(rg " 10 .
.PP
The DLPI Library documented here is the
.B OpenSS7
implementation of a library intended on being a work-alike with the
.IR Solaris \(rg
library in accordance with the
.I Sun Microsystems
documentation.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.PP
The
.IR Solaris \(rg-compatible
DLPI Library should not be confused with the
.IR GCOM -compatible
DLPI API Library,
.BR libdlpiapi (3).
The two libraries are incompatible and have namespace conflicts (primarily on
.BR dlpi_open (3)
and
.BR dlpi_close (3)).
.PP
The
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library only supports connectionless mode data link service,
\fBDL_CLDLS\fP and does not invoke automatic response to XID and TEST, even
when the DLS provider advertises that it is capable of automatic response.
However, the
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library does support native, passive and raw modes.
Nevertheless, the
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library is useful in only limited cases.  In contrast, the
.IR GCOM
DLPI API Library,
.[
dlpiapi
.]
.BR dlpiapi (3),
supports both connectionless mode and connection-oriented mode data link
service, \fBDL_CLDLS\fP and \fBDL_CODLS\fP, and is still capable of native,
passive and raw modes.
.\"
.\"
.SH FUNCTIONS
.PP
.B libdlpi
implements the following DLPI library functions:
.TS
tab(:);
lb1c1lssss.
dlpi_arptype\fR(3):-:convert MAC Type to RFC 826 ARP Hardware Type.
dlpi_bind\fR(3):-:bind a DLPI Stream to a DLSAP.
dlpi_close\fR(3):-:close a DLPI Stream.
dlpi_disabmulti\fR(3):-:disable a multicast address.
dlpi_disabnotify\fR(3):-:disable notifications.
dlpi_enabmulti\fR(3):-:enable a multicast address.
dlpi_enabnotify\fR(3):-:enable notifications.
dlpi_fd\fR(3):-:obtain file descriptor for Stream.
dlpi_get_physaddr\fR(3):-:get physical address.
dlpi_iftype\fR(3):-:convert MAC Type to RFC 2863 IANA ifType.
dlpi_info\fR(3):-:obtain information for a DLPI Stream.
dlpi_linkname\fR(3):-:get linkname for DLPI Stream.
dlpi_mactype\fR(3):-:get description for DLPI MAC Type.
dlpi_open\fR(3):-:open a new DLPI Stream.
dlpi_promiscoff\fR(3):-:set promiscuous mode off.
dlpi_promiscon\fR(3):-:set promiscuous mode on.
dlpi_recv\fR(3):-:received data.
dlpi_send\fR(3):-:transmit data.
dlpi_set_physaddr\fR(3):-:set physical address.
dlpi_set_timeout\fR(3):-:set a timeout.
dlpi_strerror\fR(3):-:obtain error string.
dlpi_unbind\fR(3):-:unbind a DLPI Stream.
dlpi_walk\fR(3):-:walk the available DLPI PPAs.
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
To user the DLPI Library, include
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
and
.RB < dlpi.h >
header files in C language programs.
Add the
.RB ` -ldlpi '
flag to the linker command when linking C language programs that use this
library, or add
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.a
to the objects linked.
.\"
.SS Establishing Streams
.PP
The following functions establish and destroy DLPI Streams:
.TP
.BR dlpi_open (3)
Opens and attaches (when necessary) a DLPI Stream in the native, raw or
passive mode.
.TP
.BR dlpi_bind (3)
Binds the stream to a DLSAP.
.TP
.BR dlpi_info (3)
Request information about the DL provider.
.TP
.BR dlpi_unbind (3)
Unbind the stream from a DLSAP.
.TP
.BR dlpi_close (3)
Detaches (when necessary) and closes a DLPI Stream.
.\"
.SS Manipulating Addresses
.PP
The following functions manipulate addresses associated with the data link:
.TP
.BR dlpi_enabmulti (3)
Enable a multicast address.
.TP
.BR dlpi_disabmulti (3)
Disable a multicast address.
.TP
.BR dlpi_get_physaddr (3)
Get various types of physical address.
.TP
.BR dlpi_set_physaddr (3)
Set various types of physical address.
.TP
.BR dlpi_promiscon (3)
Enter promiscous mode.
.TP
.BR dlpi_promiscoff (3)
Leave promiscous mode.
.\"
.SS Notifications
.PP
The following functions request notifications:
.TP
.BR dlpi_enabnotify (3)
Enable notifications and callback functions.
.TP
.BR dlpi_disabnotify (3)
Disable notifications and callback functions.
.\"
.SS Data Transfer
.PP
The following functions are responsible for data transfer:
.TP
.BR dlpi_send (3)
Send data.
.TP
.BR dlpi_recv (3)
Receive data.
.\"
.SS Management
.PP
The following functions perform management operations:
.TP
.BR dlpi_fd (3)
Obtain the file descriptor for a DLPI handle.
.TP
.BR dlpi_walk (3)
Walk the available Physical Points of Appearance.
.TP
.BR dlpi_set_timeout (3)
Set a timeout (to be notified on expiry).
.\"
.SS MAC Type Conversions
.PP
The following functions perform DLPI MAC Type conversions:
.TP
.BR dlpi_arptype (3)
Converts the DLPI MAC Type to an RFC 826
.[
rfc826
.]
ARP Hardware Type.
.TP
.BR dlpi_iftype (3)
Converts the DLPI MAC Type to an RFC 2863
.[
rfc2863
.]
IANA ifType.
.\"
.SS Strings
The following functions perform string reporting:
.TP
.BR dlpi_mactype (3)
Converts the DLPI MAC Type to a DLPI
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
descriptive string.
.TP
.BR dlpi_strerror (3)
Returns the error string that corresponds to the passed in error code, and
possibly from the
.IR errno (3)
global variable.  This error string corresponds to DLPI errors, DLPI Library
errors, and UNIX errors.
.TP
.BR dlpi_linkname (3)
Returns the link name that was used to open the DLPI device or pseudo-device
driver, and as was passed to
.BR dlpi_open (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of the DLPI Library is fully thread-safe.
The variables documented as global are instead contained in thread-specific
data.
When static buffers are returned, these buffers are instead thread-specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Most function call return zero (0) on success and minus one (-1) on error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When most functions fail, they return minus one (-1) and set the global
.IR errno (3)
variable to an appropriate error code.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B DLPI API Library
is
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific.
.[
soldoc11
.]
It may be necessary to define the `C' preprocessor symbol,
.BR _SUN_SOURCE ,
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file to expose the symbolic constants, data structures and declarations
necessary for the use of these functions.  It may be necessary to include the
.RB < dlpi.h >
header file to expose the symbolic constants, data structures and declarations
necessary for the user of these functions.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/sys/dlpi.h
the standard DLPI
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
header file.
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/dlpi.h
the
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
header file.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.a
the static library version of the DLPI Library.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.so
the shared object library version of the DLPI Library.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The DLPI Library has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpiapi (3),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The OpenSS7 DLPI library is compatible with documentation of the
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI library
.[
soldoc11
.]
and applications based on the DLPI, with the following compatibility
considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Application programming interfaces for devices and modules that implement the
Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
have not been subjected to standardization and are, therefore, inherently
non-portable.  Portable \fISTREAMS\fP applications, drivers and modules will
utilize the service primitive interface directly using
.BR putmsg (2s),
.BR getmsg (2s),
.BR write (2s),
.BR read (2s)
and
.BR ioctl (2s)
system calls and the definitions provided in the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file.
.IP \(em
.B DLPI Library
functions are
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific,
.[
soldoc11
.]
and are provided only for porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
applications, drivers and modules to
.BR Linux .
They are inherently non-portable.  These functions will be avoided by portable
DLPI application programs, drivers and modules.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted, only source compatibility: any binary
compatibility experienced is coincidental and may change on a future release.
.RS
.PP
It may be necessary to recompile all applications programs, and \fISTREAMS\fP
drivers and modules, that share definitions with the DLPI library through the
.RB < dlpi.h >
header file, using
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supplied header files.
.RE
.IP \(em
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of the DLPI Library is designed to be fully thread-safe.
When used in a POSIX threads environment, the implementation is not expected
to be bug-for-bug compatible with the
.IR Solaris \(rg
implementation, which does not document interactions with multi-threaded
programs.
.PP
For further compatibility information, see
.BR dlpi (7)
and
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
DLPI documentation.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
DLPI
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.PP
DLPI documentation
.[
soldoc10
.]
was first issued by
.I Sun Microsystems
for
.IR Solaris "\(rg " 10 .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
version of the
DLPI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
