'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man3/dlpi_mactype.3.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DLPI_MACTYPE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 DLPI Library"
.\" =========================================================================
.SH NAME
.B dlpi_mactype
\- get description for DLPI MAC Type.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.BR libdlpi (3),
the
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific,
DLPI
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
Library.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/dlpi.h>
.br
.B #include <dlpi.h>
.HP
\fBconst\ char\ *dlpi_mactype\fP(\fBuint\fP\ \fImactype\fP);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fImactype\fP\(em'u
.I mactype
specifies the
.BR dlpi (7)
MAC Type that is to be converted to a descriptive string.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
This may be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBDL_100VGTPR\fP\(em'u
.B DL_CSMACD
IEEE 802.3 CSMA/CD network.
.PD 0
.TP
.B DL_TPB
IEEE 802.4 Token Passing Bus.
.TP
.B DL_TPR
IEEE 802.5 Token Passing Ring.
.TP
.B DL_METRO
IEEE 802.6 Metro Net.
.TP
.B DL_ETHER
Ethernet Bus.
.TP
.B DL_HDLC
ISO HDLC protocol support.
.TP
.B DL_CHAR
Character Synchronous protocol support.
.TP
.B DL_CTCA
IBM Channel-to-Channel Adapter.
.TP
.B DL_FDDI
Fiber Distributed data interface.
.TP
.B DL_FC
Fibre Channel interface.
.TP
.B DL_ATM
ATM.
.TP
.B DL_IPATM
ATM Classical IP interface.
.TP
.B DL_X25
X.25 LAPB interface.
.TP
.B DL_ISDN
ISDN interface.
.TP
.B DL_HIPPI
HIPPI interface.
.TP
.B DL_100VG
100 Based VG Ethernet.
.TP
.B DL_100VGTPR
100 Based VG Token Ring.
.TP
.B DL_ETH_CSMA
ISO 8802/3 and Ethernet.
.TP
.B DL_100BT
100 Base T.
.TP
.B DL_IB
Infiniband.
.TP
.B DL_FRAME
Frame Relay LAPF.
.TP
.B DL_MPFRAME
Multi-protocol over Frame Relay.
.TP
.B DL_ASYNC
Character Asynchronous Protocol.
.TP
.B DL_IPX25
X.25 Classical IP interface.
.TP
.B DL_LOOP
software loopback.
.TP
.B DL_OTHER
Any other medium not listed above.
.TP
.B DL_IPV4
IPv4 Tunnel.
.TP
.B DL_IPV6
IPv6 Tunnel.
.TP
.B DL_VNI
Virtual Network Interface.
.TP
.B DL_WIFI
IEEE 802.11.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B dlpi_mactype
is a DLPI Library
.[
soldoc11
.]
subroutine.
This function simply converts constants from a DLPI MAC type (as described in
the
.I dl_mac_type
field of the
.BR dl_info_ack_t (7)
structure, or from the
.I dli_mac_type
field of the
.B dlpi_info_t
structure used by the
.BR dlpi_info (3)
library call) to a descriptive character string.  Both the constant and
character string describe the hardware and media and there is normally a
one-to-one equivalent.  This is a convenince function for user programs that
need to display the DLPI MAC Type as a descriptive string.
.PP
Currently the mapping is as follows:
.TS
tab(:);
llss
lblss.
MAC Type:Descriptive String
_
DL_CSMACD:T{
\*(lq\fIIEEE 802.2 CSMA/CD\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_TPB:T{
\*(lq\fIIEEE 802.4 Token Passing Bus\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_TPR:T{
\*(lq\fIIEEE 802.5 Token Passing Ring\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_METRO:T{
\*(lq\fIIEEE 802.6 Metro Net\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_ETHER:T{
\*(lq\fIEthernet Bus\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_HDLC:T{
\*(lq\fIHDLC\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_CHAR:T{
\*(lq\fICharacter Synchronous\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_CTCA:T{
\*(lq\fIIBM Channel-to-Channel Adapter\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_FDDI:T{
\*(lq\fIFiber Distributed Data Interface\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_FC:T{
\*(lq\fIFibre Channel\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_ATM:T{
\*(lq\fIATM\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_IPATM:T{
\*(lq\fIATM Classical IP\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_X25:T{
\*(lq\fIX.25 LAPB\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_ISDN:T{
\*(lq\fIISDN\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_HIPPI:T{
\*(lq\fIHigh Performance Parallel Interface\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_100VG:T{
\*(lq\fI100 Base VG Ethernet\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_100VGTPR:T{
\*(lq\fI100 Base VG Token Ring\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_ETH_CSMA:T{
\*(lq\fIISO 8802/3 and Ethernet\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_100BT:T{
\*(lq\fI100 Base T Ethernet\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_IB:T{
\*(lq\fIInfiniband\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_FRAME:T{
\*(lq\fIFrame Relay LAPF\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_MPFRAME:T{
\*(lq\fIMulti-Protocol over Frame Relay\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_ASYNC:T{
\*(lq\fICharacter Asynchronous Protocol\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_IPX25:T{
\*(lq\fIX.25 Classical IP\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_LOOP:T{
\*(lq\fISoftware Loopback\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_OTHER:T{
\*(lq\fIAny other Medium\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_IPV4:T{
\*(lq\fIIPv4 Tunnel\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_IPV6:T{
\*(lq\fIIPv6 Tunnel\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_VNI:T{
\*(lq\fIVirtual Network Interface\fP\*(rq
T}
DL_WIFI:T{
\*(lq\fIIEEE 802.11\fP\*(rq
T}
\fRAny Other\fP:T{
\*(lq\fIUnknown\fP\*(rq
T}
_
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
To use the
.B dlpi_mactype
function, include
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
and
.RB < dlpi.h >
header files in C language programs.
Add the
.RB ` -ldlpi '
flag to the linker command when linking C language programs that use the
.B dlpi_mactype
function or include the
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.a
static library object as an target of the linking.
.PP
Although a data link need not be opened before calling this function, it is
useful for converting the MAC type returned in the information for a specific
link to the descriptive string.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
See \*(lq\fIEXAMPLES\fP,\*(rq below.
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
.B dlpi_mactype
is fully thread-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH LOCALIZATION
.PP
.B dlpi_mactype
supports full localizations using
.BR gettext .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.B dlpi_mactype
is successful, it returns zero (0) or a positive integer value.
When
.B dlpi_mactype
fails, it returns a negative integer value (-1).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.B dlpi_mactype
fails, it returns a negative integer value (-1).
.B dlpi_mactype
may fail when:
.TP \w'[\fBENOMEM\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ EBADF ]
the file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
supplied does not correspond to a valid DLPI Stream open for reading and
writing.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
one of the arguments supplied was invalid.
.PP
In addition, any of the error numbers returned by
.BR putmsg (2s),
.BR getmsg (2s),
.BR open (2s),
.BR close (2s),
.BR ioctl (2s)
may also be returned by
.BR dlpi_mactype .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B dlpi_mactype
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function.  It may be necessary to define the C preprocessor symbol,
.BR _SUN_SOURCE ,
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file, to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations
necessary for the use of this function.
It may also be necessary to include the
.RB < dlpi.h >
header file
to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations necessary
for the use of this function.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/sys/dlpi.h
The DLPI header file.
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/dlpi.h
The DLPI Library header file.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.a
The static library containing the
.BR dlpi_mactype
function.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.so
The shared object library containing the
.BR dlpi_mactype
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B dlpi_mactype
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR dlpi_arptype (3),
.BR dlpi_iftype (3),
.BR dlpi_info (3),
.BR dlpi (3),
.BR dlpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B dlpi_mactype
is compatible with the
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library,
.[
soldoc11
.]
and systems providing an interface equivalent to
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B DLPI Library
functions are
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific,
and are provided only for porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
applications programs, drivers and modules to
.BR Linux .
They are inherently non-portable.  These functions will be avoided by portable
DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted, only source compatibility: any binary
compatibility experienced is coincidental and may change on a future release.
It may be necessary to recompile all \fISTREAMS\fP drivers and modules that
share definitions with the DLPI API library using
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supplied header files.
.PP
For further compatibility information, see
.BR dlpi (3),
.BR dlpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI documentation.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.B dlpi_mactype
first appeared in the
.IR Solaris "\(rg " 11 .
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of the
.IR "DLPI Library" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
