'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ds_read.3.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:01 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:01 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ds_read.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:01  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DS_READ 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ds_read
\- query information on an entry by name
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xds.h>
.HP
.BI "DS_status ds_read(OM_private object " session ", OM_private_object " context ", OM_object " name ", OM_object " selection ", OM_private_object *" result_return ", OM_sint *" invoke_id_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XDS
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR ds_read ()
is used to extract information from an explicitly named entry.  It can also be
used to verify a distinguished name.
.PP
The result of this operation can be abandonned.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR session "\0\fBSession\fP(Object(Session)).
The directory session against which this operation is performed.  This must be
a private object.
.TP
.IR context "\0\fBContext\fP(Object(Context)).
The directory context to be used for this operation.  Note that
.B size-Limit
does not apply to this operation.  This argument must be a private object or
the constant
.RB { DS_DEFAULT_CONTEXT }.
.TP
.IR name "\0\fBName\fP(Object(Name)).
The name of the target object entry.  Any alises in the name will be
dereferenced unles prohibited by the
.B Dont-Dereference-Aliases
service command.
.TP
.IR selection "\0\fBSelection\fP(Object(Entry-Information-Selection)).
Specifies what information from the entry is requested.  Information about no
attribtues, all attributes or just for a named set can be chosen.  Attribute
types are always returned, but the attribute values need not be.  The possible
values of this argument are set out in [?].
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.BR Status "(Status)
Whether the read was completed or not, if used synchronously, or whether the
operation was initiated, if used asyncrhonously.
.TP
.BR Result "(Object(Read-Result))
Upon successful completion of a syncrhonous call, the result contains the
distinguished name of the target object, and a flag indicating whether the
result came from the original entry or a copy, as well as any requested
attribute types and values.  Attribute information is only returned if access
rights are sufficient.
.TP
.BR Invoke-ID "(Integer)
The
.B Invoke-ID
of an asyncrhonous directory operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a System-Error or one of the following Library-Errors:
bad-argument, bad-attribute, bad-class, bad-context, bad-name, bad-session,
bad-workspace, miscellaneous, missing-type, too-many-operations.
.PP
The following Directory-Errors may be returned by the function (or by
.BR ds_receive_result (3)
when used asynchronoulsy):
Attribute-Error, Name-Error, Referral, Security-Error, Service-Error.
.PP
An Attribute-Error (no-such-attribute) is reported if an explicit list of
attributes is specified by the
.I selection
argument, but none of them are present in the entry.  This error is not
reported if any of the selected attributes are present.
.PP
A Security-Error (insuficcient-access-rights) will only be reported where
access rights preclude the reading of all requested attribute values.
.PP
This function can return a Communications-Error.
.PP
This function can return the error constant
.RB [ DS_NO_WORKSPACE ].
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR ds_read ()
is implemented on top of the more complicated OSMIS 3.0 interface.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ds_read ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XDS (3),
.BR XOM (3),
.BR ds_abandon (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script.
.\"and the
.\".BR test-xds (8)
.\"test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ds_read ()
was first part of the
.BR XDS .
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
xom c607
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
