'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: equalx25.3.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:34:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:34:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: equalx25.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:34:15  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH EQUALX25 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B equalx25
\- compare two X.25 addresses
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <netx25/x25_proto.h>
.br
.B #include <netx25/xnetdb.h>
.HP
.BI "int equalx25(struct xaddrf *" x1 ", struct xaddrf *" x2 );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
X.25 Network Layer Interface (NLI).
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
X.25 Support Library,
.BR libsx25 (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I x1
A pointer to a
.BR xaddrf (5)
structure containing the first X.25 address for comparison.
.TP
.I x2
A pointer to a
.BR xaddrf (5)
structure containing the second X.25 address for comparison.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR equalx25 ()
compares to X.25 addresses by checking to see whether the two
.BR xaddrf (5)
structures holding them are the same.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Returns true
.RB ( 1 )
if the two structures are the same and false
.RB ( 0 )
if they are not.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.RB < netx25/x25_proto.h >
The
.BR xaddrf (5)
structure is defined in the
.RB < netx25/x25_proto.h >
header file.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libsx25.so
The X.25 network services shared object library.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libsx25.a
The X.25 network services static library.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR equalx25 ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR xaddrf (5),
.BR stox25 (3),
.BR x25tos (3),
.BR equalx25 (3),
.BR libsx25 (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B equalx25
is compatible with
.IR AIXlink/X.25 ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX X.25/9000" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "SunLink X.25" ,
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25dg
.]
and systems based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR "Solaris Solstice" "\(rg " "X.25 9.2" ,
.[
solx25dg
.]
.IR "IRIX SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
are consistent in their documentation of the
.B xaddrf
structure.
.IR "Solaris Solstice" "\(rg " "X.25 9.2" ,
.[
solx25dg
.]
however, uses a somewhat different link id.
.IP \(em
On
.IR UNIX \(rg
systems, these utility subroutines are part of the X.25 library,
.BR libsx25 .
.IP \(em
These subroutines are consistently described across implementations of X.25
on
.IR UNIX \(rg
and can be used portably by applications programs.
.IP \(em
Some implementations place header files in different locations:
.I Solstice X.25
.[
solx25pg
.]
includes the \fBxnetdb.h\fP header file from <\fBnetx25/xnetdb.h\fP>.
.I IRIS SX.25
.[
sx25
.]
includes the \fBxnetdb.h\fP header file from <\fBxnetdb.h\fP>.
.I Solstice X.25
.[
solx25pg
.]
includes the \fBx25_proto.h\fP header file from <\fBnetx25/x25_proto.h\fP>.
.I IRIS SX.25
.[
sx25
.]
includes the \fBx25_proto.h\fP header file from <\fBsys/snet/x25_proto.h\fP>.
For
.I IRIS SX.25
.[
sx25
.]
it is necessary to include the \fBx25_proto.h\fP header file.
For
.I Solstice X.25
.[
solx25dg
.]
is is not necessary to include the \fBx25_proto.h\fP header file.
.PP
See
.BR libsx25 (3)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25dg
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The X.25 host subroutines first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
These subroutines are related to
.IR UNIX \(rg
.BR STREAMS (9)
implementation of X.25 providers.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package
.RB ( "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" ).
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
