'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: getpeername.3.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:34:16 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:34:16 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: getpeername.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:34:16  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH GETPEERNAME 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B getpeername
\- get the name of the peer socket
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.HP
.BI "int getpeername(int " socket ", struct sockaddr *" address ", socklen_t *" address_len );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The function takes the following arguments:
.TP
.I socket
Specifies the file descriptor associated with the socket.
.TP
.I address
Points to a
.B sockaddr
structure into which to return the peer address.  The length and
format of the address depend on the address family of the socket.
.TP
.I address_len
Specifies the length of the
.B sockaddr
structure pointed to by the
.I address
argument.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR getpeername ()
function retrieves the peer address of the
specified
.IR socket ,
stores this address in the
.B sockaddr
structure
pointed to by the
.I address
argument, and stores the length of this
address in the object pointed to by the
.I address_len
argument.
.PP
If the actual length of the address is greater than the length of
the supplied
.B sockaddr
structure, the stored address will be
truncated.
.PP
If the protocol permits connections by unbound clients, and the
peer is not bound, then the value stored in the object pointed to
by address is unspecified.
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
This system call is implemented as a
.B SIOCSOCKSYS
IOCTL.  See
.BR socksys (4)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned.  Otherwise, -1 is
returned and errno is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The
.BR getpeername ()
function will fail if:
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
The
.I socket
argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ EFAULT ]
The
.I address
or
.I address_len
parameter can not be accessed or
written.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The socket has been shut down.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTCONN ]
The socket is not connected or otherwise has not had the peer
prespecified.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTSOCK ]
The
.I socket
argument does not refer to a socket.
.TP
.RB [ EOPNOTSUPP ]
The operation is not supported for the socket protocol.
.PP
The
.BR getpeername ()
function may fail if:
.TP
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
Insufficient resources were available in the system to complete
the call.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
There were insufficient
.IR STREAMS (4)
resources available for the
operation to complete.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR accept (3),
.BR bind (3),
.BR getsockname (3),
.BR socket (3),
.BR <sys/socket.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This function and sockets implementation is compatible to
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
including
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Where 4BSD differs from POSIX, this function follows POSIX.
.[
susv3
.]
.PP
See
.BR sockets (3)
and
.BR socklib (3)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The Open Group XNS Issue 5.2.
.[
xns 5.2
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Most sockets functions first appeared in
.IR "4BSD" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
