'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.TH MP_GET_ASSOC_INFO 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 XMP Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B mp_get_assoc_info
\- Get-Assoc-Info \- retrieve negotiated connection values.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xom.h>
.br
.B #include <xmp.h>
.HP
.BI "MP_status mp_get_assoc_info(
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI "OM_private_object " receive_result_or_argument ,
.HP
.BI "OM_uint " request_mask ,
.HP
.BI "OM_uint " result_mask ,
.HP
.BI "OM_public_object *" pres_layer_args ,
.HP
.BI "OM_public_object *" acse_args ,
.HP
.BI "OM_public_object *" cmip_assoc_args ,
.HP
.BI "OM_public_object *" standard_externals
.RE
.HP
.BI );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function returns the negotiated connection values associated with an incoming
.B Receive-Result-Or-Argument
object previously supplied by
.BR mp_receive (3).
The caller provides a
.I request_mask
to identify which values are to be returned in result objects.
.PP
This function may be used with automated connection management enabled or disabled.  In either case,
the values returned are those associated with the underlying connection on which the incoming
.I receive_result_or_argument
arrived.  In connectionless environments, the values returned are those associated with the incoming
.I receive_result_or_argument
message (for example,
.BR Responder-Address ).
.PP
Certain requested values may not be available for the input object (that is, inappropriate for the
underlying protocol) and may therefore be absent from the result.  The values actually returned are
indicated by the function result.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I receive_result_or_argument
This object contains an asynchronous response or indication, as previously returned to the user from
the
.BR mp_receive (3)
function.
.TP
.I request_mask
The
.I request_mask
specifies which connection values should be returned as result objects.  The mask is composed of bit
values which must be set on (1) to request that the corresponding connection value be returned.
Connection values which can be obtained by calling this function are:
.RS
.TP
.RB [ MP_T_PRESENTATION_CONTEXT_LIST ]
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ MP_T_RESPONDER_ADDRESS ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_T_APPLICATION_CONTEXT ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_T_AUTHENTICATION_INFORMATION ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_T_ACSE_USER_INFO ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_T_CMIS_FUNCTIONAL_UNITS ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_T_ACCESS_CONTROL ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_T_USER_INFO ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_T_SMASE_USER_DATA ]
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.I results_mask
A mask indicating which connection values have been returned as part of the result objects below.
This mask has the same structure as the
.I request_mask
argument.  All bits off (0) indicates no values were available for the input object.
.TP
.I pres_layer_args
Upon completion of this function, this object contains the negotiated connection values associated
with the
.I receive_result_or_argument
object.
This object is returned only when the
.I result_mask
bit
.RB [ MP_T_PRESENTATION_CONTEXT_LIST ]
is set on; otherwise,
.RB [ MP_ABSENT_OBJECT ]
is returned for this object.
.TP
.I acse_args
Upon completion of this function, this object contains the negotiated connection values associated
with the
.I receive_result_or_argument
object.  This object is returned only when the
.I result_mask
bit
.RB [ MP_T_RESPONDER_ADDRESS ],
.RB [ MP_T_RESPONDER_TITLE ],
.RB [ MP_T_APPLICATION_CONTEXT ],
.RB [ MP_T_AUTHENTICATION_INFORMATION ],
or
.RB [ MP_T_ACSE_USER_INFO ]
is set on; otherwise,
.RB [ MP_ABSENT_OBJECT ]
is returned for this object.
.TP
.I cmip_assoc_args
Upon completion of this function, this object contains the negotiated connection values associated
with the
.I receive_result_or_argument
object.  This object is returned only when the
.I result_mask
bit
.RB [ MP_T_CMIS_FUNCTIONAL_UNITS ],
.RB [ MP_T_ACCESS_CONTROL ],
or
.RB [ MP_T_USER_INFO ]
is set on; otherwise,
.RB [ MP_ABSENT_OBJECT ]
is returned for this object.
.TP
.I standard_externals
Upon completion of this function, this object contains the negotiated connection values associated
with the
.I receive_result_or_argument
object.  This object is returned only when the
.I result_mask
bit
.RB [ MP_T_SMASE_USER_DATA ]
is set to on; otherwise,
.RB [ MP_ABSENT_OBJECT ]
is returned for this object.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return the error constants:
.TP
.RB [ MP_NO_WORKSPACE ]
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ MP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES ]
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mp_receive (3),
.BR XMP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mp_get_assoc_info (3)
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This function is compatible with
.I Solstice CMIP 9.0
and implementations based on XMP,
.[
xmp
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
This function is source compatible.  Binary compatibility was not attempted.
.PP
See also,
.BR XMP (3),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom osi
.]
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
This function first appeared in XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
XMP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
