'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man3/mp_receive.3.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2015  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.TH MP_RECEIVE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 XMP Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B mp_receive
\- Receive \- get the argument of an operation or notification or retrieve the (partial) result of an asynchronously executed operation or notification.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xom.h>
.br
.B #include <xmp.h>
.HP
.BI "MP_status mp_receive(
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.HP
.BI "OM_sint *" mode_return ,
.HP
.BI "OM_sint *" primitive_return ,
.HP
.BI "OM_sint *" completion_flag_return ,
.HP
.BI "MP_status *" operation_notification_status_return ,
.HP
.BI "OM_private_object *" result_or_argument_return ,
.HP
.BI "OM_sint32 *" invoke_id_return
.RE
.HP
.BI );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMP.
.[
xmp c306
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function is used to retrieve the argument of an invoked operation or a reported notification
and to retrieve a partial result (linked reply) or the completed result of a previous asynchronous
operation or notification.
.PP
The function results include two status indications.  One, called
.IR status ,
indicates that this function call itself was successful; it is always returned.  The other, called
.IR operation_notification_status_return ,
is used to return the status of the completed asynchronous operation or notification, and is only
returned if there is one.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I session
The management session against which this operation or notification is performed.
This must be a private object previously returned from
.BR mp_bind (3),
or a connected or partially connected session object returned from
.BR mp_assoc_req (3),
.BR mp_assoc_rsp (3)
or
.BR mp_receive ().
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.I status
Returns an error value if one of the library errors or system errors listed below occurred during
execution of this function.  Returns the value
.RB [ MP_SUCCESS ]
if this function returned successfullReturns the value
.RB [ MP_SUCCESS ]
if this function returned successfully.
.TP
.I primitive_return
The management service primitives:
.RB ( MP_GET_IND ,
.BR MP_GET_NEXT_IND ,
.BR MP_GET_CNF ,
.BR MP_SET_IND ,
.BR MP_SET_CNF ,
.BR MP_ACTION_IND ,
.BR MP_ACTION_CNF ,
.BR MP_CREATE_IND ,
.BR MP_CREATE_CNF ,
.BR MP_DELETE_IND ,
.BR MP_DELETE_CNF ,
.BR MP_EVENT_REPORT_IND ,
.BR MP_EVENT_REPORT_CNF ,
.BR MP_CANCEL_GET_IND ,
.BR MP_CANCEL_GET_CNF ).
.BR MP_GET_IND ,
.sp
The ACSE service primitives:
.RB ( MP_ASSOC_IND ,
.BR MP_ASSOC_CNF ,
.BR MP_RELEASE_IND ,
.BR MP_RELEASE_CNF ,
.BR MP_ABORT_IND ).
.sp
Determines the operation or notification of this result or argument.  This result is only valid if
.IR completion_flag_return
has the value
.RB [ MP_COMPLETED ],
.RB [ MP_INCOMING ],
or
.RB [ MP_PARIAL ].
.TP
.I mode_return
This indicates the mode of an indidcation.  When 
.RB [ MP_T_CONFIRMED ]
invoked operation or the reported management notification has to be confirmed, a reply is expected.
When
.RB [ MP_T_NON_CONFIRMED ],
the requested service is nto to be confirmed.
.sp
This result is only valid if
.I completion_flag_return
has the value
.RB [ MP_INCOMING ].
.TP
.I completion_flag_return
This flag indicates the stauts of the received data, if any.
.RS
.TP
.RB [ MP_COMPLETED ]
This flag indicates that a final response has been received.  For management primitives this may be
the confirmation for a non-scoped request or the last confirmation of a linked reply.  In the latter
case, the
.I result_or_argument_return
parameter will be the
.RB ( MP_ABSENT_OBJECT ).
.TP
.RB [ MP_INCOMING ]
An indication has been received.
.TP
.RB [ MP_NOTHING ]
There are not indications or notifications to receive.  Further, there are no outstanding
asynchronous requests.
.TP
.RB [ MP_OUTSTANDING ]
There are no indications or confirmations to receive.  There are still outstanding requests, but no
confirmations have yet arrived.
.TP
.RB [ MP_PARTIAL ]
A confirmation has been received that is part of a linked reply.  This is used for all bu the last
in a series of linked replies.  (See completed, above.)
.PP
This reseult is only valid if
.I status
has the value
.RB [ MP_SUCCESS ].
In that case, the validity of the other results is given in the following table:
.sp
.TS
box tab(:);
cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb
cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb
cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb
cb|c|c|c|c|c.
Completion:Primitive:Mode:Operation:Result:Invoke
-Flag:::/Notifica-:or:-ID
value:::tion Status:Argument:
_
Completed:yes (1):no:yes:yes (1):yes
Incoming:yes:yes:no:yes:yes
Nothing:no:no:no:no:no
Outstanding:no:no:no:no:no
Partial:yes (1):no:yes:yes (1):yes
_
.T&
lssss.
T{
(1)
This result is only valid if Operation-Notification-Status has the value success.
T}
.TE
.RE
.TP
.I operation_notification_status_return
Takes an eror value if a communications error occurred during the execution of the asynchronous
operation or notification, and
.RB [ MP_SUCCESS ]
otherwise.  The possible error values are listed for each individual operation int he corresponding
manual page.  The result is only valid if
.I completion_flag_return
has the value
.RB [ MP_COMPLETED ]
or
.RB [ MP_PARTIAL ].
.TP
.I result_or_argument_return
This object contains the resutls of an asynchronous request, or informaiton about an indication.
The class of object received is dependent on the values of the
.I primitive_return
and
.I completion_flag_return
parameters.  The following table defines the OM classes of the
.I result_or_argument
parameter that can be returned for the three applicable
.I completion_flag_return
values.  The actual class returned is dependent upon the value of
.IR primitive_return .
.RS
.PP
Completion flag set to completed:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
ll.
CMIS-Action-Result:MP_ACTION_CNF
CMIS-Create-Result:MP_CREATE_CNF
CMIS-Delete-Result:MP_DELETE_CNF
CMIS-Event-Report-Result:MP_EVENT_REPORT_CNF
CMIS-Get-Result or Pdus (get-Response):MP_GET_CNF
CMIS-Set-Result or Pdus (set-Response):MP_SET_CNF
CMIS-Service-Error or CMIS-Service-Reject or Pdus:All Confirmations
Assoc-Result:MP_ASSOC_CNF
Release-Result:MP_RELEASE_CNF
Absent-Object:All Confirmations
.TE
.PP
Note that
.RB ( MP_ABSENT_OBJECT )
may be returned in three cases:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The confirmation contains no data (i.e. Cancel-get()).
.IP 2.
A scoped request was issued, but no objects were selected.
.IP 3.
As the terminator of a linked-reply list.  In this case, the invoke identifier parameter can be used
to determine which linked reply has been terminated.
.PP
Completion flag set to incoming:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
ll.
CMIS-Action-Argument:MP_ACTION_IND
CMIS-Cancel-Get-Argument:MP_CANCEL_GET_IND
CMIS-Create-Argument:MP_CREATE_IND
CMIS-Delete-Argument:MP_DELETE_IND
CMIS-Event-Report-Argument or Pdus (trap):MP_EVENT_REPORT_IND
CMIS-Get-Argument or Pdus (get-Request):MP_GET_IND or MP_GET_NEXT_IND
CMIS-Set-Argumnet or Pdus (set-Reqeust):MP_SET_IND
Assoc-Argument:MP_ASSOC_IND
Release-Argument:MP_RELEASE_IND
Abort-Argument:MP_ABORT_IND
.TE
.PP
Completion flag set to partial:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
ll.
CMIS-Linked-Reply-Argument:All primitives.
.TE
.PP
For
.I completion_flag_return
values of
.RB [ MP_COMPLETED ]
or
.RB [ MP_PARTIAL ],
the
.I result_or_argument_return
parameter is valid only if the
.I operation_notification_status_return
contains the value
.RB [ MP_SUCCESS ].
The parameter is not valid for
.I completion_flag_return
values of
.RB [ MP_NOTHING ]
or
.RB [ MP_OUTSTANDING ].
.RE
.TP
.I invoke_id_return
The invoke identifier of the operation or notification whose error, result or argument is being
returned.  This result is only valid if the
.I status
has the value
.RB [ MP_SUCCESS ]
and
.I completion_flag_return
has the value
.RB [ MP_COMPLETED ],
.RB [ MP_PARTIAL ]
or
.RB [ MP_INCOMING ].
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a
.B System-Error
or one of the following
.BR Library-Error s:
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_CLASS ]
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_CONTEXT ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_SESSION ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_MISCELLANEOUS ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_SESSION_TERMINATED ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_TIME_LIMIT_EXCEEDED ]
.PD
.PP
This function does not report any
.BR Communications-Error ,
in its
.I status
result.  (Any such errors related the completed asynchronous oepration or notification are reported
in 
.IR operation_notification_status_return ,
as described above.)
.PP
Also, this function can return the error constants:
.TP
.RB [ MP_NO_WORKSPACE ]
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ MP_INVALID_SESSION ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES ]
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mp_bind (3),
.BR mp_assoc_req (3),
.BR mp_assoc_rsp (3),
.BR XMP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mp_receive (3)
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This function is compatible with
.I Solstice CMIP 9.0
and implementations based on XMP,
.[
xmp c306
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
This function is source compatible.  Binary compatibility was not attempted.
.PP
See also,
.BR XMP (3),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom c607
.]
XMP.
.[
xmp c306
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
This function first appeared in XMP.
.[
xmp c306
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
XMP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
