'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ms_receive_result.3.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ms_receive_result.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:03  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MS_RECEIVE_RESULT 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ms_receive_result
\- retrieve the result of an asynchronously exectuted operation
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xms.h>
.sp
.HP
.BI "MS_status ms_receive_result(OM_private_object " session ", OM_uint *" completion_flag_return ", MS_status *" operation_status_return ", OM_private_object *" result_return ", MS_invoke_id *" invoke_id_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMS
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function is used to retrieve the completed result of some operation
previously executed asynchronously.
.PP
The function results include to status indications.  One, called
.BR Status ,
indicates whether this function call itself was successful; it is always
returned.  The other, called
.BR Operation-Status ,
is used to return the statu of the completed asynchronous operation and is only
returned if it exists.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR session "\0\fBSession\fP(Object(Session))
Specifies the MS session over which this function is performed.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.BR Status "(Status)
Indicates whether the function succeeded or not.
.TP
.IR completion_flag_return "\0\fBCompletion-Flag\fP(Unsigned-Integer)
Indicates the status of outstanding asynchronous operations and has one of the
following values:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR completed-operation " {" MS_COMPLETED_OPERATION }
.br
Indicates that at least one outstanding asynchronous operation has completed
and the result for one is made available.
.IP \(em
.BR outstanding-operation " {" MS_OUTSTANDING_OPERATION }
.br
Indicates that there are outstanding asynchronous operations, but none has yet
completed.
.IP \(em
.BR no-outstanding-operation " {" MS_NO_OUTSTANDING_OPERATION }
.br
Indicates that there are no outstanding asynchronous operations.
.RE
.sp
The result is valid if
.B Status
has the value success.
.sp
On successful return with
.B Completion-Flag
having the value
.BR completed-operation ,
the Status and the Invoke-ID of the completed operation are returned.
.TP
.IR operation_status_return "\0\fBOperation-Status\fP(Status)
Indicates whether the asynchronous operation succeeded or not; if not, the
possible error values are those listed for the individual operation in the
corresponding manual page.
.sp
This result is valid if
.B Status
has the value success and the
.B Completion-Flag
has the value
.BR completed-operation .
.TP
.IR result_return "\0\fBResult\fP(Object(*))
Indicates the result of the completed asynchronous operation.  Its valud will
be the constant
.BR Null-Result " {" MS_NULL_RESULT }
if the operation was one that does not return a result.  Otherwise, the OM
object's OM class is that of the result of the asynchronous operation and can
be determined using the OM functions.
.sp
Note: the possible forms of
.I result_return
that
.BR ms_receive_result ()
is required to support is restricted to the result of interface functions
within the FUs supported.
.sp
This result is valid if
.B Status
has the value success and
.B Completion-Flag
has the value
.BR completed-operation .
.TP
.IR invoke_id_return "\0\fBInvoke-ID(Integer)
Indicates the invoke-ID of the completed asynchronous operation whose reulst is
being returned.  This result is valid if
.B Status
has the value success and
.B Completion-Flag
has the value
.BR completed-operation .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a System-Error or one fo the following Library-Errors:
bad-session, feature-unavailable, feature-not-negotiated, no-workspace,
out-of-memory, miscellaneous.
.PP
This function does not report any Message Store errors or a
Communications-Error in the
.B Status
result.  (Any such errors related to the completed asynchronous operation are
reported in
.BR Operation-Status ,
as described above.)
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ms_receive_result ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
All interface functions that can be asynchronously executed,
.BR ms_cancel_submission (3),
.BR ms_check_alert (3),
.BR ms_delete (3),
.BR ms_fetch (3),
.BR ms_list (3),
.BR ms_receive_result (3),
.BR ms_register (3),
.BR ms_register_ms (3),
.BR ms_submit (3),
.BR ms_summarize (3),
.BR ms_wait (3),
.BR XMS (3),
.BR XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script.
.\"and the
.\".BR test-xms (8)
.\"test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ms_receive_result ()
was first part of the
.BR XMS .
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
xom c607
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
