'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ms_submit.3.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:34:19 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:34:19 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ms_submit.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:34:19  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MS_SUBMIT 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ms_submit
\- submit a communique (message or probe)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xms.h>
.sp
.HP
.BI "MS_status ms_submit(OM_private_object " session ", OM_object " communique ", OM_private_object *" submission_results_return ", MS_invoke_id *" invoke_id_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMS
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
After verifying the integrity of the communique, this function sumbits a
communique (message or probe) by adding it to the submission queue to which the
current session provides access.  A message may be submitted by requesting the
forwarding of a delivered message identified by its sequence number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR session "\0\fBSession\fP(Object(Session))
Specifies the MS session over which this function is performed.
.TP
.IR communique "\0\fBCommunique\fP(Object(Submitted-Communique))
Specifies the object (a message or probe) to be submitted.  Its purported
originator shall be the user associated with the session.  If the communique is
a private object, it is made inaccessible to the client; and is deleted at the
discretion of the service.
.sp
Note: If the subclass,
.BR Item-To-Forward ,
were used for this argument, it is possible to request forwarding a delivered
message identified by its MS sequence-number.  (The MS entry to be thus
forwarded should be a delivered message entry.  Forwarding of entries that are
not delivered messages is not defined in the XMS
.[
XMS
.]
specification).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.BR Status "(Status)
Indicates whether the function succeeded or not, if used synchronously; or
whether the function has been initiated, if used asynchronously.
.TP
.IR submission_results_return "\0\fBResult\fP(Object(Submission-Results))
On successful completion of a synchronous call, contains the results of the
submission.  For details, refer to the X.400 API (see reference X.400).
.[
x400
.]
.TP
.IR invoke_id_return "\0\fBInvoke-ID\fP(Integer)
Specifies the Invoke-ID of the asynchronous operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a System-Error or one fo the following Library-Errors:
bad-argument, bad-session, bad-class, no-such-class, asynchrony-not-supported,
feature-unavailable, feature-not-negotiated, out-of-memory, miscellaneous,
too-many-operations.
.PP
The following Message Store errors may be returned:
sequence-number-error, submission-control-violated,
element-of-service-not-subscribed, no-workspace, originator-invalid,
recipient-improperly-specified, inconsistent-request, security-error,
unsupported-critical-function, remote-bind-error.
.PP
This function can return a Communications-Error.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ms_submit ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ms_cancel_submission (3),
.BR XMS (3),
.BR XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xms (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ms_submit ()
was first part of the
.BR XMS .
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
xom c607
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
