'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: nc_error.3.man,v 1.1.2.1 2011-02-07 02:14:39 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:14:39 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: nc_error.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2011-02-07 02:14:39  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH NC_ERROR 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.hw netconfig
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B nc_error
\- network configuration error number
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 12
.B #include <netconfig.h>
.HP
.BI "int " nc_error ;
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.PP
.IR UNIX \(rg
has traditionally provided three components of the Network Services Library,
.BR libnsl ,
that are associated with Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9)
network pseudo-device drivers, and that are not currently part of the
.B Linux
Network Services Library.  These components are:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
Network Configuration database access, see
.BR netconfig (3).
.PD 0
.IP 2.
Network Directory and address mapping, see
.BR netdir (3).
.IP 3.
Network Path access, see
.BR netpath (3).
.PD
.PP
These are often refered to as the Network Selection facility of the Network
Services Library.
.PP
.B nc_error
contains the last network selection or network configuration function,
.BR netconfig (3),
error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B nc_error
is provided primarily for use by network selection and configuration
functions shared object libraries as described in
.BR netconfig (5).
It is not intended to be used directly by the network selection function
library user.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B nc_error
is implemented as thread-specific data when linked with the
.BR pthreads (7)
library,
.BR libpthreads.so .
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
When a network selection or configuration function returns an error, it
places the network configuration error number in
.BR nc_error .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The error string associated with the current value of
.B nc_error
can be obtained using the
.BR nc_sperror (3)
function.  The string prefixed by a caller supplied string, a colon and a
space, can be printed to standard error using the
.BR nc_perror (3)
function.
.PP
.B nc_error
can contain one of the following values:
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOMEM ]
.IP ""
.RI \(lq "nc: out of memory" \(rq
Out of memory.  Memory could not be allocated to complete the last
.BR netconfig (3)
or
.BR netpath (3)
operation.
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOSET ]
.IP ""
.RI \(lq "nc: routine called out of order" \(rq
The
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetpath (3),
.BR endnetconfig (3),
or
.BR endnetpath (3)
function was called out of order: that is, before
.BR setnetconfig (3)
or
.BR setnetpath (3)
was called.
.TP
.RB [ NC_OPENFAIL ]
.IP ""
.RI \(lq "nc: could not open %s" \(rq
The
.B @sysconfdir@/netconfig
file could not be opened for reading.
.I %1$s
is the name of the
.B @sysconfdir@/netconfig
file.
.TP
.RB [ NC_BADLINE ]
.IP ""
.RI \(lq "nc: syntax error in %s: field %d of line %d" \(rq
A syntax error exists in the
.B @sysconfdir@/netconfig
file at the location shown.  The field number is the whitespace separated
field within the line in the
.B @sysconfdir@/netconfig
fiel at which the syntax error was detected.  The line number is the line
number in the
.B @sysconfdir@/netconfig
file at which the syntax error was detected.
.I %1$s
is the name of the
.B @sysconfdir@/netconfig
file.
.I %2$d
is the field number.
.I %3$d
is the line number.
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOTFOUND ]
.IP ""
.RI \(lq "nc: netid not found in %s" \(rq
The
.I netid
specified as an argument to the
.BR getnetconfigent (3)
subroutine was not found in any entry in the
.B @sysconfdir@/netconfig
file.
.I %1$s
is the name of the
.B @sysconfdir@/netconfig
file.
.TP
.RB [ NC_NOMOREENTRIES ]
.IP ""
.RI \(lq "nc: no more entries in %s" \(rq
All entries in the
.B @sysconfdir@/netconfig
file have been exhausted.  They have either already neen retrieved with
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfigent (3),
.BR getnetpath (3),
or the
.B @sysconfdir@/netconfig
file contains no entries.
.I %1$s
is the name of the
.B @sysconfdir@/netconfig
file.
.PP
When an error occurs, an error message can be printed to standard error or retrieved using
.BR nc_perror (3)
or
.BR nc_sperror (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @sysconfdir@/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See
.BR netconfig (5s).
.TP
.B @libdir@/libxnsl.so
The X/Open Network Services Library shared object library.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libxnsl.a
The X/Open Network Services Library static library.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR netconfig (3),
.BR netconfig (5s),
.BR netpath (3),
.BR netdir (3),
.BR netdir (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B nc_error
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B nc_error
is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
stores the error condition in
.BR nc_error .
.IP \(em
Diagnostic message strings are not documented and are incompatible.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility would only be coincidental.
.IP \(em
On
.IR UNIX \(rg
systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of the Network Services
Library,
.BR libnsl ;
however,
.B Linux
already has a library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these
components), and, therefore,
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
renames the library to
.BR libxnsl (3).
.PP
See
.BR libxnsl (3)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The network configuration subroutines first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
These subroutines are related to the
.IR UNIX \(rg
.BR STREAMS (9)
implementation of network transport providers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

