'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH OSI 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B OSI
\- Open Systems Interconnect
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
THe Open Systems Interconnect modules, drivers, libraries and agents provide a
rich framework for OSI applications and management.  This document provides a
roadmap to the facilities in the striso package that support this framework.
.PP
We begin from the top down.
.PP
At the top of the stack are three applications of particular interest: DS,
MHS, FTAM, VT, TMN.
Each of these top-level applications has a C-lanaguage programming interface
defined by the OpenGroup (formerly X/Open) as shown in the following table:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
ll.
T{
DS
T}:T{
XDS
.[
XDS c608
.]
T}
T{
MS
T}:T{
XMS
.[
XMS c305
.]
T}
T{
MHS
T}:T{
XMHS
.[
XMHS c609
.]
T}
T{
FTAM
T}:T{
XFTAM
.[
XFTAM c415
.]
T}
T{
TMN
T}:T{
XMP
.[
xmp c306
.]
T}
.TE
.PP
All of these higher level C-language APIs provide interfaces based on the
manipulation of abstract data types based on ASN.1,
.[
x680
.]
which is provided programatically using the XOM.
.[
XOM c607
.]
.PP
Underneath these we have ACSE
.[
x217
.]
and ROSE,
.[
x219
.]
which provide the application communications protocol support.  These are
supported by anothe set of X/Open APIs as follows:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
ll.
T{
ACSE
.[
x217
.]
.[
x227
.]
.[
x237
.]
T}:T{
XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
T}
T{
ROSE
.[
x219
.]
.[
x229
.]
T}:T{
XAP-ROSE
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
T}
T{
DTP
T}:T{
XAP-TP
.[
XAP-TP
.]
T}
.TE
.PP
Note that XAP-TP
.[
XAP-TP
.]
is likely sufficient for implementing a user-level API for TCAP.
.[
q771
.]
which is based on ROSE
.[
x219
.]
and DTP.
XAP-ROSE
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
is likely sufficient for implementing a user-level API for CMISE/CMIP,
.[
x710
.]
.[
x711
.]
.PP
XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
is adequate for providing both interface to kernel-level communications
facilities as well as  the ability to implement ACSE, Presentation and Session
layers within a user-level library.
Some simplified stacks can be provided directly by kernel-level drivers using
the XTI-mOSI interface.
.[
XNS Issue 5.2
.]
.PP
Underneath the Session layer is the Transport layer which is provided by
XTI
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.[
XNS Issue 5.2
.]
and
TPI
.[
TPI Revision 2.0
.]
at the Transport Layer,
NPI
.[
NPI Revision 2.0
.]
at the Network Layer,
DLPI
.[
DLPI
.]
a the Data Link Layer,
and
CDI
.[
CDI OpenSS7
.]
at the communications device.
.PP
Note that NPI
.[
NPI Revision 2.0
.]
is also sufficient for implementing the SCCP.
.[
q711
.]
SCCP
.[
q711
.]
with a null transport layer could also be implemented using XTI
.[
XNS Issue 5.2
.]
with an OSI profile.
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A CMISE stack is illustrated as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
                                                                               
                                 XMP Interface                                 
                           _________________________                           
                                |             |                                
                      +---------+             +-------------+                  
                      |                                     |                  
               +--------------+                     +--------------+           
               |              |                     |              |           
               |    CMISE     |                     |     SNMP     |           
               |              |                     |              |           
               +--------------+                     +--------------+           
                      |                                     |                  
                   XAP-ROSE                                 |                  
       +------------+    +-------------+                    |                  
       |            |    |             |                    |                  
       |    ACSE    |    |    ROSE     |                    |                  
       |            |    |             |                    |                  
       +------------+    +-------------+                    |                  
              |                 |                           |                  
              |                 |                           |                  
              |                 |                           |                  
              |                 |                           |                  
              |                 |                           |                  
              | XTI-OSI         | XTI-mOSI              XTI | XTI-INET         
   ___________|_________________|____                 ______|_____             
  |           |                 |                           |                  
  |           | ???             | TPI                   TPI |                  
  |    +------------+    +-------------+                    |                  
  |    |            |    |    LPP      |                    |                  
  |    |Presentation|    |  RFC 1095   |                    |                  
  |    |            |    |             |                    |                  
  |    +------------+    +-------------+                    |                  
  |                             |                           |                  
  |    +------------+           | TPI                       |                  
  |    |            |           |___________________________|_____             
  |    |  Session   |                                       |                  
  |    |            |                                       |                  
  |    +------------+                          _____________|_____             
  |___________|_________________|_______      |             |                  
      XTI-OSI | TPI     XTI-OSI | TPI         |             |                  
       +------------+    +-------------+      |     +--------------+           
       |            |    |             |      |     |              |           
       |  Transport |    |  RFC 1006   |      |     |      TCP     |           
       |            |    |             |      |     |              |           
       +------------+    +-------------+      |     +--------------+           
                                |             |                                
                                |  TPI        |                                
                                +-------------+                                
                                                                               
                                                                               
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
