'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2012  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH P_ERRNO 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "PCAP-NG Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B p_errno, p_errbuf
\- PCAP-NG error number and buffer.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <pcapng.h>
.HP 8
.B extern int p_errno;
.PD 0
.HP 8
.B extern char p_errbuf[PCAP_ERRBUF_SIZE];
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.TP \w'\fIp_errbuf\fP\ \ 'u
.I p_errno
the PCAP-NG error number.
.TP
.I p_errbuf
the PCAP-NG error string.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I p_errno
contains the last error or warning number generated by a PCAP-NG Library call
when a PCAP-NG Library call fails, or succeeds with warnings.
.I p_errbuf
contains the last error or warning string generated by a PCAP-NG Library call
when a PCAP-NG Library call fails, or succeeds with warnings.
(Note: not all PCAP-NG Library calls can fail or succeed with warnings.)
.PP
If a PCAP-NG Library call succeeds, there is no guarantee that
.IR p_errno " or " p_errbuf
will contain the same value as before the call, even though the PCAP-NG
Library call succeeded.
.PP
Most PCAP-NG Library calls will also set an appropriate error number in
.IR errno (3).
.PP
Following are the error numbers reported and their error strings:
.TP 8
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR ]
An unspecified error occurred.
.IR errno "(3) and " p_errbuf (3)
may provide additional information.
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR_BREAK "], [" EINTR ]
A loop was terminated due to a request from
.BR pcapng_breakloop (3).
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR_NOT_ACTIVATED "], [" ENXIO ]
An operation was attempted where the device must be active, however, the
device was found to be inactive.  (This error will not be returned as there
are no such operations defined.)
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR_ACTIVATED "], [" EALREADY ]
An operation was attempted where the device must be inactive, however, the
device was found to be activated.
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR_NO_SUCH_DEVICE "], [" ENODEV ]
A device name specified a device that does not exist.
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR_RFMON_NOTSUP "], [" ENOTSUP ]
Monitoring mode was specified for an interface before it was activated, but
the interface does not support monitor mode.
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR_NOT_RFMON "], [" ENOTTY ]
An operation was attempted where the device must be in monitor mode, but the
device was found to not be in monitor mode.  (This error will not be
returned as there are no such operations defined.)
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR_PERM_DENIED "], [" EACCES ]
The calling process does not have sufficient privilege to access the device.
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR_IFACE_NOT_UP "], [" ENETDOWN ]
The device specified is not up, and therefore, not available for capture.
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR_CANTSET_TSTAMP_TYPE "], [" EOPNOTSUPP ]
An attempt was made to set a time stamp type on a device that does not
support setting of time stamp type at all.
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR_PROMISC_PERM_DENIED "], [" EPERM ]
The calling process does not have sufficient privilege to set promisuous
mode.
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR_NO_SUCH_INTERFACE "], [" EINVAL ]
An interface index was specified for a PCAP-NG handle that does not have that
interface index attached.
.PP
Following are the warning numbers reported and their warning strings:
.TP 8
.RB [ PCAP_WARNING ]
An unspecified warning occurred.
.IR errno "(3) and " p_errbuf (3)
may provide additional information.
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_WARNING_PROMISC_NOTSUP "], [" ENOTSUP ]
The interface does not support promiscuous mode, but promiscuous mode was
requested on the interface before activation.
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_WARNING_TSTAMP_TYPE_NOTSUP "], [" EOPNOTSUPP ]
The time stamp type specified for the interface is not supported: the default
time stamp type for the interface was used instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
.BR p_errno " and " p_errbuf
are fully thread-safe.  What are described as global variables
are in fact thread-specific data when linked with
.BR libpthread .
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR pcapng (3),
.BR pcapng_strerror (3),
.BR pcap_geterr (3pcap),
.BR pcap_perror (3pcap),
.BR pcap_strerror (3pcap).
.BR pcap (3pcap).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR p_errno " and " p_errbuf
have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR p_errno " and " p_errbuf
are fully compatible with the equivalent error numbers and strings returned
by
.BR libpcap ;
however, these are thread-safe equivalents whereas the
.B libpcap
approach is inherently non-thread-safe
.RB ( libpcap
accesses static members and buffers).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR p_errno " and " p_errbuf
conform to the operation of the non-thread-safe
.B libpcap
equivalents:
.BR pcap_geterr (3pcap),
.BR pcap_perror (3pcap),
and
.BR pcap_strerror (3pcap).
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR p_errno " and " p_errbuf
first appeared in PCAP-NG 1.0.
.B libpcap
uses stores error numbers and strings in the PCAP handle, which is not
thread-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 PCAP-NG Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
