'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2012  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH PCAPNG_CREATE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "PCAP-NG Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B pcapng_create
\- create a live capture PCAP-NG handle.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <pcapng.h>
.HP 8
.BI "pcapng_t *pcapng_create(const char *" source );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I source
name of the network device to add initially.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B pcapng_create
creates a PCAP-NG packet capture handle to look at packets on the network.
.I source
is a string that specifies the network device to open; on Linux an argument
of \(lqany\(rq or
.B NULL
can be used to capture packets on all interfaces (using
.BR DLT_LINUX_SLL ).
A
.I source
argument of \(lqall\(rq can be used to capture on all interfaces (an
interface is defined for each and every interface that can be found with
.BR pcap_findalldevs (3pcap),
except \(lqany\(rq).
.PP
Each interface of the returned handle must be activated with
.BR pcapng_activate (3)
or
.BR pcapng_activate_all (3)
before packets can be captured with it; options for the interface, such as
promiscuous mode, can be set on each interface before activating it.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B pcapng_create
is one of the functions that can be used to open a live capture.  The other
functions include:
.BR pcapng_open_dead "(3) and " pcapng_open_live (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
.B pcapng_create
is thread-safe with regard to error numbers and buffers.  Full thread-safety,
however, relies on a thread-safe version of
.B libpcap .
.PP
.B pcapng_create
IS a thread cancellation point.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.B pcapng_create
creates a PCAP-NG handle, with or without an allocated interface.
Upon failure,
.B pcapng_create
returns
.B NULL
and sets an appropriate error message in 
.IR p_errbuf (3)
and possibly more information in
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.B pcapng_create
fails, it returns
.B NULL
and sets an appropriate error messages in 
.IR p_errbuf (3).
Additional information about the error can be
obtained from
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR pcapng (3),
.BR pcapng_open_live (3),
.BR pcapng_open_dead (3),
.BR pcap_create (3pcap),
.BR pcap (3cap).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B pcapng_create
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B pcapng_create
does not return a proper error code in
.IR p_errno (3).
This deficiency is caused by the underlying
.B libpcap
library.
.PP
.B pcapng_create
cannot ensure proper thread-safety due to the inherent deficiencies of the
underlying
.B libpcap
library.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 PCAP-NG Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
