'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2012  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH PCAPNG_LIST_STATS 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "PCAP-NG Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B pcapng_list_stats, pcapng_free_stats
\- get and free capture statistics
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <pcapng.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int pcapng_list_stats(pcapng_t *" p ", pcapng_stats_t **" psp );
.PD 0
.HP 8
.BR "void pacpng_free_stats(pcapng_stats_t *" ps );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I p
the PCAP-NG handle for which to list capture statistics.
.TP
.I psp
a pointer to a
.B pcapng_stats_t
point into which to return the list of interface statistics.
.TP
.I ps
a
.B pcapng_stats_t
pointer to a PCAP-NG statistics list to be freed.

.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B pcapng_list_stats
is used to return a list of
.B pcapng_stats_t
structures,
.IR psp ,
for the interfaces associated with the PCAP-NG handle,
.IR p .
.PP
.B pcpang_free_stats
is used to free the list of
.B pcapng_stats_t
structures,
.IR ps ,
returned from a previous call to
.BR pcapng_list_stats .
.PP
The values in the returned
.B pcapng_stats_t
structures represent packet statistics.
The
.B pcpang_stats_t
structure has the following format:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s+1
typedef struct pcapng_stats {
    struct pcapng_stats *ps_next;
    uint32_t ps_interfaceid;
    uint32_t ps_ts[2];
    const char *ps_comment;
    uint32_t ps_starttime[2];
    uint32_t ps_endtime[2];
    uint64_t ps_ifrecv;
    uint64_t ps_ifdrop;
    uint64_t ps_filteraccept;
    uint64_t ps_osdrop;
    uint64_t ps_usrdeliv;
    uint64_t ps_ifcomp;
} pcapng_stats_t;
\fR\s-1
.fi
.PP
where the members are defined as follows:
.TP 4
.I ps_next
When not
.BR NULL ,
a pointer to the next
.B pcapng_stats_t
structure in the list.  A
.B NULL
value indicates that this is the last
.B pcapng_stats_t
structure in the list.
.TP
.I ps_interfaceid
The interface identifier (index) associated with the interface in the PCAP-NG
handle for this
.B pcapng_stats_t
statistics structure.
.TP
.I ps_ts
The low-order 32-bits followed by the high-order 32-bits of the time stamp
at which the statistics were valid.
The resulting 64-bit time stamp is in the time stamp units associated with
the interface.
.TP
.I ps_comment
A textual comment associated with the interface statistics.  If an interface
statistics block of a \(lqsavefile\(rq has multiple comments, they will be
concatenated with intervening line feeds into a single comment string.  The
memory associated with any comment string is managed under the PCAP-NG handle
and must not be manipulated nor freed by the caller.
.TP
.I ps_starttime
The low-order 32-bits followed by the high-order 32-bits of the time stamp
for the start of the interval over which the statistics were collected.
The resulting 64-bit time stamp is in the time stamp units associated with
the interface.
.TP
.I ps_endtime
The low-order 32-bits followed by the high-order 32-bits of the time stamp
for the end of the interface over which the statistics were collected.
The resulting 64-bit time stamp is in the time stamp units associated with
the interface.
.TP
.I ps_ifrecv
The number of correct packets received by the interface.
.TP
.I ps_ifdrop
The number of correct packets received by the interface that were dropped due
to lack of resources at the interface.
.TP
.I ps_filteraccept
The number of packets that were accepted by the filter associated with the
interface.  If no filter is associated with the interface, this value will
either be zero or the difference between the
.IR ps_ifrecv " and " ps_ifdrop
field values.
.TP
.I ps_osdrop
The number of packets that were dropped by the operating system (i.e. by the
BPF driver) because the capture application was not reading from operating
system buffers at a sufficient rate.
.TP
.I ps_usrdeliv
The number of packets delivered to the capture application.  This value may
be less than the difference between
.IR ps_filteraccept " and " ps_osdrop
because packets may still be retained in operating system buffers that have
yet to be read by the capture application.
.TP
.I ps_ifcomp
The number of correct packets received by the interface and not dropped by
the interface that were compressed due to consequential identical packets.
This field is primarily used for compressing FISUs and LSSUs in Signalling
System No. 7 (SS7) applications.
.PP
Not all fields are supported by all interface capture sources.  Where a field
is not supported by an interface capture source, the field will have a zero
value.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B pcapng_list_stats
can be used to list capture statistic both on live captures as well as
\(lqsavefiles\(rq.
.PP
When
.B pcapng_list_stats
is called with a PCAP-NG handle,
.IR p ,
that represents a capture file, the returned
.B pcapng_stats_t
structures represent the packet capture statistics for each interface from the
start of the run to the time of the call.  Statistics will be collected from
the underlying capture interface to return the statistics.
.PP
When
.B pcapng_list_stats
is called with a PCAP-NG handle,
.IR p ,
that represents a \(lqsavefile\(rq, the returned
.B pcapng_stats_t
structures represent the packet statistics for all interface statistics
blocks that have so for been encountered while reading the \(lqsavefile\(rq.
Because interface statistics blocks are normally added to the end of a
PCAP-NG 1.0 \(lqsavefile,\(rq this call may return a null list until an end-of-file
has been encountered on the \(lqsavefile\(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
.B pcapng_list_stats
is fully thread-safe.  What are described as global variables
are in fact thread-specific data when linked with
.BR libpthread .
.PP
Each call to
.B pcapng_list_stats
allocates new memory to hold structures and strings.  Therefore, the calling
thread has exclusive access to this memory upon return.  However, threads
that are cancelled may leak this memory unless they have a cancellation
handler to call
.BR pcapng_free_stats (3)
on the allocated memory.
.PP
.B pcapng_list_stats
is NOT a thread cancellation point.
.PP
.B pcpang_free_stats
is trivially thread-safe.
It is NOT a thread cancellation point.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.B pcapng_list_stats
returns zero
.RB ( 0 ),
and sets the packet statistics structure pointer,
.IR *psp ,
to point to the returned list of packet statistics.  When the list is empty,
the returned pointer,
.IR *psp ,
will be
.BR NULL .
.PP
Upon failure,
.B pcapng_list_stats
returns minus one
.RB ( -1 ),
sets an appropriate error number in
.BR p_errno "(3) and " errno (3),
and sets an appropriate error string in
.IR p_errbuf (3)
when available.
.PP
.B pcapng_free_stats
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B pcapng_free_stats
always succeeds.
.PP
When
.B pcapng_list_stats
fails, it returns minus one
.RB ( -1 ),
sets an appropriate error string in
.IR p_errbuf (3)
when available, and sets an appropriate error number in
.BR p_errno "(3) and " errno (3)
as follows:
.TP 8
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR ]
An unspecified error occurred.
.IR errno "(3) and " p_errbuf (3)
may provide additional information.
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR_NOT_ACTIVATED "], [" ENXIO ]
An operation was attempted where the device must be active, however, the
device was found to be inactive.
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR_NO_SUCH_DEVICE "], [" ENODEV ]
A device name specified a device that does not exist.
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR_PERM_DENIED "], [" EACCES ]
The calling process does not have sufficient privilege to access the device
to collect statistics.
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR_IFACE_NOT_UP "], [" ENETDOWN ]
The device specified is not up, and therefore, not available for capture.
.PP
When
.B pcapng_list_stats
succeeds with warnings, it returns zero
.RB ( 0 ),
sets an appropriate warning string in
.IR p_errbuf (3)
when available, and sets an appropriate warning number in
.BR p_errno "(3) and " errno (3)
as follows:
.TP 8
.RB [ PCAP_WARNING ]
An unspecified warning occurred.
.IR errno "(3) and " p_errbuf (3)
may provide additional information.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR pcapng (3),
.BR pcapng_stats (3),
.BR pcap_stats (3pcap),
.BR pcap (3pcap).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B pcapng_list_stats
has no known bugs of its own; however, since
.BR pcap_stats (3pcap)
is used to collect statistics from interfaces, the bugs inherent in
.BR pcap_stats (3pcap),
particularly with regard to indeterminacy of counts, remain.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B pcapng_list_stats
is roughly compatible with a sequence of calls to
.BR pcap_stats (3)
for the interfaces involved, with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR pcap_stats (3)
does a particularly poor job of maintaining a single definition for the
values of the counts that it returns:
.B pcapng_list_stats
attempts to resolve some of those issues.
.IP \(em
.BR pcap_stats (3)
is inherently non-thread-safe for many platforms since it uses counts 
attached to the
.B pcap_t
handle without locking.
.B pcapng_list_stats
add thread-safety by appropriately wrapping calls to
.BR pcap_stats (3).
.PP
See
.BR pcapng (3)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.B pcapng_list_stats
attempts to conform to the PCAP-NG v1.0 specifications for interface
statistics blocks.
Due to the indeterminacy of counts returned by
.BR pcap_stats (3pcap),
across may platforms, conformance is restricted to platforms properly
utilizing the BPF driver,
.BR bpf "(4), " bpfdrv (4),
and current versions of Linux.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B pcapng_list_stats
first appeared in PCAP-NG 1.0.
.BR pcap_stats (3pcap)
appears in
.BR libpcap .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 PCAP-NG Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
