'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man3/pcapng_dump_stats.3.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2012  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH PCAPNG_DUMP_STATS 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "PCAP-NG Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B pcapng_dump_stats
\- dump interface statistics to a PCAP-NG \(lqsavefile\(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <pcapng.h>
.ad l
.HP 8
.BI "int pcapng_dump_stats(pcapng_dumper_t *" d ", struct pcapng_stats *" ps);
.ad b
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I d
the PCAP-NG \(lqsavefile\(rq handle to which to dump interface statistics.
.TP
.I ps
the interface statistics to dump to the file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B pcapng_dump_stats
dumps interface statistics,
.IR ps ,
to the PCAP-NG \(lqsavefile\(rq specified by the handle,
.IR d .
.B pcapng_dump_stats
dumps interface statistics for the interfaces identified in
.IR ps .
.PP
The
.B pcapng_stats
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s+1\
typedef struct pcapng_stats {
    struct pcapng_stats *ps_next;
    uint32_t ps_interfaceid;
    uint32_t ps_ts[2];
    const char *ps_comment;
    uint32_t ps_starttime[2];
    uint32_t ps_endtime[2];
    uint64_t ps_ifrecv;
    uint64_t ps_ifdrop;
    uint64_t ps_filteraccept;
    uint64_t ps_osdrop;
    uint64_t ps_usrdeliv;
    uint64_t ps_ifcomp;
} pcapng_stats_t;
\fR\s-1
.fi
.PP
The fields of the
.B pcapng_stats
structure are as follows:
.TP 4 \"\w'\fIps_filteraccept\fP\ 'u
.I ps_next
when
.RB non- NULL ,
points to the next interface statistics structure in the list; when
.BR NULL ,
indicates that this is the last interface statistics structure in the list.
.TP
.I ps_interfaceid
the interface identifier of the interface to which the statistics pertain.
.PD 0
.TP
.I ps_ts
the high-order 32-bits followed by the low-order 32-bits of the time stamp at
which time the statistics were taken.
.TP
.I ps_comment
a comment string to include with the statistics.
.TP
.I ps_starttime
the high-order 32-bits followed by the low-order 32-bits of the time stamp of
the start of the interval for which the statistics apply.
.TP
.I ps_endtime
the high-order 32-bits followed by the low-order 32-bits of the time stamp of
the end of the interval for which the statistics apply.
.TP
.I ps_ifrecv
the number of packets successfully received at the interface; excluding
packets received in error.
.TP
.I ps_ifdrop
the number of packets dropped at the interface due to lack of resources (not
due to packet errors).
.TP
.I ps_filteraccept
the number of packets that were accepted by the filter (if any).
.TP
.I ps_osdrop
the number of packets that were dropped by the operating system due to the
capture application not reading system buffers fast enough.
.TP
.I ps_usrdeliv
the number of packets delivered to the user-level application.
.TP
.I ps_ifcomp
the number of packets that were compressed by the operating system due to
sequential duplicates.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B pcapng_dump_stats
is typically used to dump interface statistics to a PCAP-NG format file just
before closing the file, or at intermediate points within the file.
.PP
The statistics structure pointer,
.IR ps ,
can be any interface statistics structure pointer returned by 
.BR pcapng_list_stats (3),
or successfully passed to
.BR pcapng_stats (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
.B pcapng_dump_stats
is fully thread-safe.  What are described as global variables
are in fact thread-specific data when linked with
.BR libpthread .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.B pcapng_dump_stats
writes the interface statistics,
.IR ps ,
to the PCAP-NG dump file and returns zero
.RB ( 0 ).
Upon failure,
.B pcapng_dump_stats
returns minus one
.RB ( -1 ),
sets an appropriate error number in
.BR p_errno (3)
and sets an appropriate error string in
.BR p_errbuf (3)
when available.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.B pcapng_dump_stats
fails, it returns minus one
.RB ( -1 ),
sets
.IR p_errbuf (3)
to an appropriate error string when available, and sets
.IR p_errno "(3) and " errno (3)
to appropriate error codes as follows:
.PP
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR_NO_SUCH_INTERFACE "], [" EINVAL ]
The interface identified in the statistics structure,
.IR ps->ps_interfaceid ,
is not defined for the PCAP-NG dump handle.
.TP
.RB [ PCAP_ERROR ]
An unspecified error occurred while writing to the dump file:
.IR errno "(3) and " p_errbuf (3)
may provide additional information.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR pcapng (3),
.BR pcapng_stats (3),
.BR pcapng_dump_stats_all (3),
.BR pcap_stats (3pcap),
.BR pcap (3pcap).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B pcapng_dump_stats
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
There is no equivalent to
.BR pcapng_dump_stats " or " pcapng_dump_stats_all (3)
in
.BR libpcap .
PCAP does not have the ability to save interface statistics to the PCAP
formatted \(lqsavefile\(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.B pcapng_dump_stats
conforms to the PCAP-NG 1.0 file format specification.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B pcapng_dump_stats
first appeared in PCAP-NG 1.0.
.BR pcap_stats (3pcap)
appeared in
.BR libpcap .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 PCAP-NG Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
