'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2012  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH PCAPNG_OPEN_LIVE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "PCAP-NG Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B pcapng_open_live
\- open a device for capturing.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <pcapng.h>
.HP 8
.BI "pcapng_t *pcapng_open_live(const char *" device ", int " snaplen ", int " promisc ", int " timeout );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fIpromisc\fR\ \ 'u
.I device
the network device name to open.
.PD 0
.TP
.I snaplen
the snapshot length to set.
.TP
.I promisc
whether to set promiscuous mode.
.TP
.I timeout
read timeout in milliseconds.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B pcapng_open_live
is used to obtain a PCAP-NG packet capture handle to look at packets on the
network.
.I device
is a string that specifies the network device to open; on Linux systems with
2.2 or later kernels, a
.I device
argument of \(lqany\(rq or
.B NULL
can be used to capture packets from all interfaces
(using
.BR DLT_LINUX_SLL ).
A
.I device
argument of \(lqall\(rq can be used to capture on all interfaces (an
interface is defined for each an every interface that can be found with
.BR pcap_findalldevs (3pcap),
except \(lqany\(rq).
.PP
Each interface of the returned handle will have the
.IR snaplen ", " promisc ", and " timeout
arguments applied.
.I snaplen
specifies the snapshot length to be set on each interface;
.I promisc
specifies whether to set promiscuous mode on each interface; and,
.I timeout
specifies the read timeout in milliseconds for each interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B pcapng_open_live
is a more specialized form of
.BR pcapng_create (3).
.B pcapng_open_live
not only open and associates interfaces with the returned PCAP-NG handle, but
applies the
.IR snaplen ", " promisc ", and " timeout
settings to each interface of the handle.  Each interface is also activated
for capture (as with
.BR pcapng_activate (3)).
.PP
.B pcapng_open_live
has the same effect as calling
.BR pcapng_create (3)
to get a PCAP-NG handle, and then calling
.BR pcapng_set_snaplen (3),
.BR pcapng_set_promisc (3)
and
.BR pcapng_set_timeout (3)
with the argument values, and then calling
.BR pcapng_activate (3),
for each interface in turn.
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
.B pcapng_open_live
is thread-safe with regard to error numbers and buffers.  Full thread-safety,
however, relies on a thread-safe version of
.B libpcap .
.PP
.B pcapng_open_live
IS a thread cancellation point.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.B pcapng_open_live
creates a PCAP-NG handle, with one or more allocated and activated
interfaces.
Upon success with warnings,
.B pcapng_open_live
creates a PCAP-NG handle, with one or more allocated and activated
interfaces, and sets an appropriate warning message in
.IR p_errbuf (3).
Upon failure,
.B pcpang_open_live
returns
.B NULL
and sets an appropriate error message in
.IR p_errbuf (3)
and possibly more information in
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.B pcapng_open_live
fails, it returns
.B NULL
and sets an appropriate error message in 
.IR p_errbuf (3).
Additional information about the error can be
obtained from
.IR errno (3).
When
.B pcapng_open_live
succeeds with warnings, it returns a PCAP-NG handle and sets an
appropriate warning message in
.IR p_errbuf (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR pcapng (3),
.BR pcapng_create (3),
.BR pcapng_open_dead (3),
.BR pcap_open_live (3pcap),
.BR pcap (3cap).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B pcapng_open_live
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B pcapng_open_live
does not return an proper error nor warning code in
.IR p_errno (3).
This deficiency is caused by the underlying
.B libpcap
library.
.PP
.B pcapng_open_live
cannot ensure proper thread-safety due to the inherent deficiencies of the
underlying
.B libpcap
library.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 PCAP-NG Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
