'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man3/pcapng_dump.3.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2012  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH PCAPNG_DUMP 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "PCAP-NG Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B pcapng_dump
\- write a packet to a capture file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <pcapng.h>
.HP 8
.BI "typedef int (*pcapng_handler)(void *" user ", const struct pcapng_pkthdr *" h ", const u_char *" bytes );
.HP 8
.BI "int pcapng_dump(void *" user ", const struct pcapng_pkthdr *" h ", u_char *" sp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I user
a handle to the PCAP-NG dump file.
.PD 0
.TP
.I h
a pointer to a PCAP-NG packet header structure.
.TP
.I sp
a pointer to the packet payload.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B pcapng_dump
outputs a packet to the \(lqsavefile\(rq opened with
.BR pcapng_dump_open (3)
or
.BR pcapng_dump_fopen (3).
Note that the calling arguments for
.B pcapng_dump
are suitable for use as a direct
.B pcapng_callback
function for use by
.BR pcapng_dispatch (3)
or
.BR pcapng_loop (3).
When called directly, the
.I user
argument should be a
.B pcapng_dumper_t
as returned by
.BR pcapng_dump_open (3)
or
.BR pcapng_dump_fopen (3).
.PP
The
.B pcapng_pkthdr
structure has the following format:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s+1
struct pcapng_pkthdr {
      uint32_t pph_interfaceid;
      uint32_t pph_ts[2];
      uint32_t pph_captlen;
      uint32_t pph_packlen;
      uint32_t pph_datalen;
      uint32_t pph_flags;
      uint64_t pph_dropcount;
      uint64_t pph_compcount;
};
\s-1\fR
.fi
where the members are defined as follows:
.TP 4
.I pph_interfaceid
The interface identifier (index) for the interface to which the
packet belongs.
.TP
.I pph_ts
The low-order 32-bits followed by the high-order 32-bits of a
64-bit time stamp representing the time that the packet was received.  The
64-bit value is in the time units of the indexed interface.
.TP
.I pph_captlen
The capture length of the packet.  The capture length will not be
greater than the snapshot length associated with the indexed interface.
.TP
.I pph_packlen
The original length of the packet.  The packet length will not be
less than the capture length provided in
.IR pph_caplen .
.TP
.I pph_datalen
The length of the packet contained in an associated data buffer.
This field is often the same value as the
.IR pph_captlen .
.TP
.I pph_flags
The flags associated with the packet.  The flags are a logical OR of one flag
from each of the following groups (or any flag from the errors group):
.RS 4
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_DIR_UNKNOWN
The direction of the packet is unknown.
.PD 0
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_DIR_INBOUND
The direction of the packet was inbound to the interface.
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_DIR_OUTBOUND
The direction of the packet was outbound from the interface.
.PD
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_TYP_UNSPEC
The packet is of unspecified type.
.PD 0
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_TYP_UNICAST
The packet was received as a unicast packet.
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_TYP_MULTICAST
The packet was received as a multicast packet.
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_TYP_BROADCAST
The packet was received as a broadcast packet.
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_TYP_PROMISCUOUS
The packet was received promiscuously.
.PD
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_FCS_UNAVAIL
The FCS length for the packet is unavailable.
.PD 0
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_FCS_VAL(\fIval\fP)
The FCS length of the packet is the value,
.IR val .
This value is between 0 and 15 inclusive.
.PD
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_ERR_SYMBOL
There was a link-layer symbol error.
.PD 0
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_ERR_PREAMBLE
There was a link-layer preamble error.
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_ERR_START
There was a link-layer start frame delimiter error.
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_ERR_UNALIGNED
There was a link-layer unaligned frame error.
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_ERR_GAP
There was a link-layer inter-frame gap error.
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_ERR_SHORT
There was a link-layer frame too short error.
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_ERR_LONG
There was a link-layer frame too long error.
.TP
.B PCAPNG_FLAG_ERR_CRC
There was a link-layer CRC error.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I pph_dropcount
The number of packets that were dropped since the last packet received and
this packet.
.TP
.I pph_compcount
The number of packets that were compressed since the last packet received and
this packet.  This is the number of identical copies of this packet that were
compressed.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
When used for saving packets from live capture to a \(lqsavefile,\(rq
.B pcapng_dump
is typically specified as the
.I callback
argument to
.BR pcapng_dispatch (3)
or
.BR pcapng_loop (3),
so that packets capture by these functions are directly written to the
\(lqsavefile\(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
.BR pcapng_dump
is fully thread-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.B pcapng_dump
saves the packet to the \(lqsavefile\(rq specified by
.IR user ,
and returns zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.PP
Upon failure,
.B pcapng_dump
returns minus one
.RB ( -1 ),
sets
.IR p_errno
to an appropriate error number, and sets
.IR p_errbuf
to an appropriate error string when available.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B pcapng_dump
returns
.BR void .
When
.B pcpang_dump
fails, it fails silently.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR pcapng (3),
.BR pcapng_dump_open (3),
.BR pcapng_dump_fopen (3),
.BR pcapng_dispatch (3),
.BR pcapng_loop (3),
.BR pcap_dump (3pcap),
.BR pcap (3pcap).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B pcapng_dump
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Because
.B pcapng_dump
returns
.BR void ,
it fails silently.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 PCAP-NG Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
