'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH PTSNAME 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ptsname
\-  get name of the slave pseudo-terminal device
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.\".B #include <sys/ptms.h>
.\".br
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.HP
.BI "char *ptsname(int " fd );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
The file descriptor of a master pseudo-terminal device successfully acquired
by opening the
.B /dev/ptmx
device.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR ptsname ()
subroutine returns the name of the slave pseudo-terminal device associated
with a master pseudo-terminal device.  The
.I fd
argument is a file descriptor that refers to the master pseudo-terminal
device.  The
.BR ptsname ()
subroutine returns a pointer to a string containing the pathname of the
corresponding slave device.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
When a master pseudo-terminal device,
.BR ptmx (4),
is opened with a call to
.BR open (2s),
it returns an available master pseudo-terminal device.  As part of the
.BR open (2s),
call processing, the master pseudo-terminal driver,
.BR ptm (4),
automatically locks out both the master and the slave pseudo-terminal driver from subsequent
.BR open (2s)
calls.
.PP
The owner of the master
.BR pty (4)
can then establish appropriate permissions for the slave device using the
.BR grantpt (3)
subroutine, before unlocking the slave to be opened with
.BR unlockpt ().
.PP
The master pseudo-terminal device remains locked.  That is, no other process can open the
pseudo-terminal device,
.IR "including the process holding the device open" ,
once it has already been opened.
.BR unlockpt ()
only unlocks the slave pseudo-terminal device.
.PP
As can be deduced from this procedure, the primary intention of the procedure is one of security.
Other processes are not even afforded a narrow window within which to open the slave pseudo-device
terminal.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR ptsname ()
is implemented using the
.B ISPTM
input-output control for master pseudo-terminal devices,
.BR pty (4).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR ptsname ()
returns a pointer to a string which contains the name of the slave
pseudo-terminal device.; upon failure, it returns
.BR NULL .
.PP
The character pointer returned on success may point to a static data area
overritten by each subsequent call to
.BR ptsname ().
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.BR libtty (3)
library implements this data area as thread specific data when the library is
linked with the POSIX threads library,
.BR libpthread .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR ptsname ()
fails, it returns
.BR NULL .
.PP
.B POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
does not define any errors for
.BR ptsname ();
however,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
sets
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[\fBEINVAL\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ EBADF ]
The
.I fd
argument is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The
.I fd
argument is not associated with a master pseudo-terminal device.
.TP
.RB [ EACCES ]
The corresponding slave pseudo-terminal device could not be accessed.
.PP
In addition, any other error number returned by
.BR ioctl (2s)
could be returned by
.BR ptsname ().
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/ptmx ", " /dev/streams/ptmx ", " /dev/streams/clone/ptm
The master pseudo-device terminal clone device node.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR grantpt (3),
.BR unlockpt (3),
.BR pty (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ptsname ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ptsname ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR libtty (3)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR 4.2,
.[
svr42
.]
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3.
.[
susv3
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ptsname ()
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
These subroutines are related to the
.IR UNIX \(rg
.BR STREAMS (9)
implementation of pseudo-terminal devices.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
