'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man3/sx25.3.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH SX25 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sx25, SX25, libsx25
\- X.25 Library
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
X.25
.[
x25
.]
support functions.
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
X.25 Support Library,
.BR libsx25 (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <netx25/x25_proto.h>
.br
.B #include <netx25/xnetdb.h>
.ad l
.nh
.HP 12
.BI "void setpadent(int " stayopen );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int getnettype(unsigned char *" snid );
.HP
.BI "struct padent *getpadbyaddr(char *" addr );
.HP
.BI "struct padent *getpadent(void);
.HP
.BI "void endpadent(void);
.HP
.BI "int padtos(struct padent *" p ", unsigned char *" strp );
.PD
.HP
.BI "void setxhostent(int " stayopen );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "struct xhostent *getxhostbyaddr(char *" addr ", int " len ", int " type );
.HP
.BI "struct xhostent *getxhostbyname(char *" name );
.HP
.BI "struct xhostent *getxhostent(void);
.HP
.BI "void endxhostent(void);
.PD
.HP
.BI "unsigned long snidtox25(unsigned char *" snid );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int x25tosnid(unsigned long " snid ", unsigned char *" str_snid );
.HP
.BI "unsigned long linkidtox25(unsigned char *" linkid );
.HP
.BI "int x25tolinkid(unsigned long " linkid ", unsigned char *" str_linkid );
.PD
.HP
.BI "int stox25(unsigned char *" cp ", struct xaddrf *" xad ", int " lookup );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int x25tos(struct xaddrf *" xad ", unsigned char *" cp ", int " lookup );
.HP
.BI "int equalx25(struct xaddrf *" x1 ", struct xaddrf *" x2 );
.PD
.HP
.BI "int (*x25_set_parse_error_function(int (*" func ")(char *)))(char *);
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int x25_read_config_parameters(int " linkid ", struct config_ident *" ipt ", struct LINK_config_data *" lpt ", struct X25_config_data *" xpt ", struct MLP_config_data *" mpt ", struct LAPB_config_data *" lpb ", struct LLC2_config_data *" l2p ", struct WAN_config_data *" wpt ", int *" flags );
.HP
.BI "int x25_read_config_parameters_file(char *" filename ", struct config_ident *" ipt ", struct LINK_config_data *" lpt ", struct X25_config_data *" xpt ", struct MLP_config_data *" mpt ", struct LAPB_config_data *" lbp ", struct LLC_config_data *" l2p ", struct WAN_config_data *" wpt ", int *" flags );
.HP
.BI "int x25_find_link_parameters(struct link_data **" lptr );
.HP
.BI "int x25_save_link_parameters(struct link_data *" linkid );
.HP
.BI "int x25_write_config_parameters(int " linkid ", struct config_ident *" ipt ", struct LINK_config_data *" lpt ", struct X25_config_data *" xpt ", struct MLP_config_data *" mpt ", struct LAPB_config_data *" lbp ", struct LLC2_config_data *" l2p ", struct WAN_config_data *" wpt );
.HP
.BI "int x25_write_config_parameters_file(char *" filename ", struct config_ident *" ipt ", struct LINK_config_data *" lpt ", struct X25_config_data *" xpt ", struct MLP_config_data *" mpt ", struct LAPB_config_data *" lbp ", struct LLC2_config_data *" l2p ", struct WAN_config_data *" wpt );
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
.B libsx25
is an
.B OpenSS7
implementation of the X.25 Library for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
lfs
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B libsx25
implements the following X.25 API library functions:
.\"
.SS X.25 PAD Database Functions
.PP
.TP \w'\fBgetpadbyaddr\fR(3)\(em'u
.BR setpadent (3)
opens or reopens the
.BR padent (5)
file and rewinds to the start of the file.
.PD 0
.TP
.BR getnettype (3)
get X.25 network type for a subnetwork identifier.
.TP
.BR getpadbyaddr (3)
get the
.BR padent (5)
entry corresponding to an address.
.TP
.BR getpadent (3)
gets the next entry in the
.BR padent (5)
file, opening the file if required.
.TP
.BR endpadent (3)
closes the
.BR padent (5)
file.
.TP
.BR padtos (3)
convert
.BR padent (5)
entry to a string.
.PD
.\"
.SS X.25 Host Database Functions
.PP
.TP \w'\fBgetxhostbyname\fR(3)\(em'u
.BR setxhostent (3)
opens or reopens the
.BR xhostent (5)
file and rewinds to the start of the file.
.PD 0
.TP
.BR getxhostbyaddr (3)
get the
.BR xhostent (5)
entry corresponding to an X.25 address.
.TP
.BR getxhostbyname (3)
get the
.BR xhostent (5)
entry corresponding to an X.25 host name.
.TP
.BR getxhostent (3)
gets the next entry in the
.BR xhostent (5)
file, opening the file if required.
.TP
.BR endxhostent (3)
clsoes the
.BR xhostent (5)
file.
.PD
.\"
.SS X.25 Link/Subnetwork Database Functions
.PP
.TP \w'\fBx25tolinkid\fR(3)\(em'u
.BR snidtox25 (3)
.PD 0
.TP
.BR x25tosnid (3)
.TP
.BR linkidtox25 (3)
.TP
.BR x25tolinkid (3)
.PD
.\"
.SS X.25 Address Functions
.PP
.TP \w'\fBequalx25\fR(3)\(em'u
.BR stox25 (3)
.PD 0
.TP
.BR x25tos (3)
.TP
.BR equalx25 (3)
.PD
.\"
.SS X.25 Configuration Functions
.PP
.TP \w'\fBx25_write_config_parameters_file\fR(3)\(em'u
.BR x25_set_parse_error_function (3)
.PD 0
.TP
.BR x25_read_config_parameters (3)
.TP
.BR x25_read_config_parameters_file (3)
.TP
.BR x25_find_link_parameters (3)
.TP
.BR x25_save_link_parameters (3)
.TP
.BR x25_write_config_parameters (3)
.TP
.BR x25_write_config_parameters_file (3)
.PD
.\"
.\"
.\".SH OPTIONS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
These functions normally return
.BR void ,
return an integer value,
.BR int ,
where zero
.RB ( 0 )
indicates success and minus one
.RB ( -1 )
indicates failure, or return a pointer to the appropriate database or address structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Handling of error numbers is not specified in the
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although it would appear that the
.BR xhosts (5)
database would be handled using either local files
.RB ( /etc/xhosts ),
Berkeley adatabases, or NIS maps, under
.IR UNIX \(rg,
it has traditionally only been implemented using flat files.  Although NIS extensions would be nice;
unfortunately, it is not easy to add a database to the
.I glibc
.BR libnsl .
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR setpadent (3),
.BR getnettype (3),
.BR getpadbyaddr (3),
.BR getpadent (3),
.BR endpadent (3),
.BR padtos (3),
.BR setxhostent (3),
.BR getxhostbyaddr (3),
.BR getxhostbyname (3),
.BR getxhostent (3),
.BR endxhostent (3),
.BR snidtox25 (3),
.BR x25tosnid (3),
.BR linkidtox25 (3),
.BR x25tolinkid (3),
.BR stox25 (3),
.BR x25tos (3),
.BR equalx25 (3),
.BR x25_set_parse_error_function (3),
.BR x25_read_config_parameters (3),
.BR x25_read_config_parameters_file (3),
.BR x25_find_link_parameters (3),
.BR x25_save_link_parameters (3),
.BR x25_write_config_parameters (3),
.BR x25_write_config_parameters_file (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The SX25 library has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The SX25 library functions are compatible with
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25dg
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
with the following compatibilty considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
refers to the subnetwork identifier as a link identifier.
.IP \(em
Some implementations place header files in different locations:
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
includes the
.B xnetdb.h
header file from
.RB < netx25/xnetdb.h >.
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
includes the
.B xnetdb.h
header file from
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
includes the
.B x25_proto.h
header file from
.RB < netx25/x25_proto.h >.
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
includes the
.B x25_proto.h
header file from
.RB < sys/snet/X25_proto.h >.
For
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
it is necessary to include the
.B x25_proto.h
header file.  For
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
it is not necessary to include the
.B x25_proto.h
header file.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25dg
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.BR libsx25
library first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 X25 Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
