'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man3/t_rcvconnect.3.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH T_RCVCONNECT 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "XTI/TLI Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B t_rcvconnect
\- receive connection request confirmation
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_rcvconnect(int " fd ", struct t_call *" call );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport endpoint upon which to receive the connection confirmation.
.TP
.I call
a pointer to a
.B t_call
structure to contain returned information about the connected peer.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I fd
specifies the local transport endpoint upon which to receive the connection
confirmation.
.PP
.I call
is a pointer to a
.B t_call
structure that returns information about the responding transport endpoint
including the remote address, options and connection data.
The
.B t_call
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_call {
        struct netbuf addr;             /* address */
        struct netbuf opt;              /* options */
        struct netbuf udata;            /* user data */
        int sequence;                   /* sequence number */
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
The
.B t_call
structure returns the following members and information:
.TP
.I addr
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure that returns the responding transport address.
The
.I call->addr.maxlen
field is significant on call and the
.I call->addr.len
field is significant on return.
When
.I call->addr.maxlen
is zero, no responding address will be returned.
When
.I call->addr.len
returns zero, no responding address was available.
.TP
.I opt
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure that returns the responding transport options.
The
.I call->opt.maxlen
field is significant on call and the
.I call->opt.len
field is significant on return.
When
.I call->opt.maxlen
is zero, no responding options will be returned.
When
.I call->opt.len
returns zero, no responding options were available.
.TP
.I udata
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure that returns the responding connection data.
The
.I call->udata.maxlen
field is significant on call and the
.I call->udata.len
field is significant on return.
When
.I call->udata.maxlen
is zero, no responding connection data will be returned.
When
.I call->udata.len
returns zero, no responding connection data was available.
.TP
.I sequence
is not used by
.BR t_rcvconnect ()
and is left unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR t_rcvconnect ()
is only valid in state
.BR T_OUTCON .
.PP
In synchronous mode,
.BR t_rcvconnect ()
will block until a connection confirmation or asynchronous event occurs on
.IR fd .
In asynchronous mode,
if a connection confirmation is not immediately available,
.BR t_rcvconnect ()
will fail, return -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.BR TNODATA .
.PP
A call to
.BR t_rcvconnect ()
is not normally necessary in synchronous mode.
In synchronous mode,
.BR t_connect (3)
normally blocks until a connection confirmation is received.
.BR t_rcvconnect ()
is typically used in asynchronous mode, where
.BR t_connect (3)
returns immediately after call and
.BR t_rcvconnect ()
is needed to receive the connection confirmation.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_rcvconnect ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR t_rcvconnect ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_rcvconnect ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TBUFOVFLW ]
The \fImaxlen\fR field of a \fBnetbuf\fR(3) structure,
.IR "" ( addr ", " opt ", " udata ),
passed to the call was
non-zero, but insufficient to hold the available information.  See,
\fBnetbuf\fR(3) for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TLOOK ]
An asynchronous event occured before the call could complete.  See \fBt_look\fR(3) for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TNODATA ]
An attempt was made to read data but no data indication was available and
.I fd
was set for asynchronous mode operation with
.BR O_NONBLOCK " or " O_NDELAY
in a call to
.BR t_open "(3) or " fcntl (2).
.TP
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
The call requires the use of a TLI primitive not supported by the underlying transport provider.
This can occur when the underlying transport provider is of the connectionless service type
.RB [R T_CLTS . ]
.TP
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The call was issued with the interface in a state other than
.RB [R T_OUTCON . ]
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A \fBLinux\fR system error occured and the \fBLinux\fR error number is set in \fIerrno\fR(3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR errno (3),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR netbuf (3),
.BR t_connect (3),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_look (3),
.BR t_open (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR t_rcvconnect ()
has no known bugs.
.BR t_rcvconnect ()
has been tested for the described behavior using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
conformance test suites.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The XTI/TLI library functions are compatible with 
SVR4.2,
.[
svr42
.]
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns98
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
Compatibility is tested using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns98
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-xnet (8)
and
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B t_rcvconnect
first appeared in SVR4.2.
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for the OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
