'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: allocbi.9.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:36 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:36 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: allocbi.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:36  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH ALLOCBI 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B allocbi
\- allocate a \fISTREAMS\fR message block
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _MAC_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/macddi.h>
.HP
.BI "typedef void (*" allocbi_fcn_t ")(caddr_t);
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *allocbi(size_t " size ", int " pri ", allocbi_fcn_t " func ", caddr_t " arg ", unsigned char *" base );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.I STREAMS
.RI ( MacOT \(rg
.[
macspg
.]
compatibility).
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I size
the size of the user supplied message buffer.
.PD 0
.TP
.I pri
the priority of the request.
.TP
.I func
the callback function to call when the buffer is freed.
.TP
.I arg
an argument to pass to the callback function,
.IR func ,
when the buffer is freed.
.TP
.I base
the base of the user supplied message buffer.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR allocbi ()
is used where the
.I STREAMS
driver needs control over the location, allocation and deallocation of data
buffers.  This may be because the data buffers are subject to some physical
constratins (e.g. must be allocated in DMA-able memory, or must exist in
dual-ported RAM or in a descriptor ring).  This may also be because some other
mechanism outside of
.I STREAMS
has already allocated and passed the data buffer to a
.I STREAMS
driver.
.PP
.BR allocbi ()
allocates a message block and a data block using the caller supplied data
buffer at base,
.IR base ,
of the specified size
.IR size ,
and priority,
.IR pri .
The priority,
.IR pri ,
value can be one of the following values:
.TP \w'\fBBPRI_WAITOK\fP\(em'u
.B BPRI_LO
The caller requests a low priority message buffer.
.PD 0
.TP
.B BPRI_MED
The caller requests a medium priority message buffer.
.TP
.B BPRI_HI
The caller requests a high priority message buffer.
.TP
.B BPRI_WAITOK
The caller requests a low priority message buffer and can block.
.PD
.PP
If
.BR allocbi ()
is called with a
.I pri
value other than
.BR BPRI_LOW ", " BPRI_MED ", " BPRI_HI " or " BPRI_WAITOK ,
the request will be treated as
.BR BPRI_LO .
.PP
The
.I pri
argument is ignored by
.IR "SVR 4"
.[
svr4
.]
and later implementations.
.PP
The data buffer of length
.I size
and with the necesssary physical memory type has already been allocated by the
caller and is pointed to by the argument
.IR base .
Also,
.BR allocbi ()
accepts a pointer to a callback function,
.IR func ,
and an argument for that function,
.IR arg .
.PP
The callback function,
.IR func ,
is a
.B allocbi_fnc_t
function that returns
.B void
and accepts a single
.B caddr_t
argument.  This function should performw whatever actionsa are necessary to
free the buffer pointed to by
.I base
passed in the call to
.BR allocbi ().
.PP
The callback function argument,
.IR arg ,
is a
.B caddr_t
argument that will be passed to a call to
.I func
when the message block returned by
.BR allocbi ()
is freed directly or indirectly with
.BR freeb (9)
or
.BR freemsg (9).
.PP
The allocated message block will have a data block type of
.BR M_DATA (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Priority
.BR BPRI_WAITOK
is added for
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfspg
.]
compatibility and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.

.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR allocbi ()
succeeds, it returns a
.RB non- NULL
pointer to the allocated message block;
when it fails, it returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR allocbi ()
fails when a message or data block cannot be allocated.
.BR allocbi ()
will always fail to allocate a message block when the number of outstanding
combind message data block allocated by the
.I STREAMS
system exceeds the system control
.BR sysctl_str_nstrmsgs .
.BR allocbi ()
will also fail if
.I size
is greater than the system control
.BR sysctl_str_strmsgsz ,
the maximum
.I STREAMS
message size.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR allocbi ()
can be called from any context, including usr context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and
interrupt service routines.  The priority
.B BPRI_WAITOK
must only be used from a blocking context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR allocbi ()
is MP-safe.  The caller has exclusive access to the returned message.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR allocbi ()
is a
.IR MacOT \(rg-specific
function:
.B _MAC_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR allocbi ()
is implemented with a simple call to
.BR esballoc (9)
with argumentss adjusted slightly.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR allocb (9),
.BR esballoc (9),
.BR freeb (9),
.BR freemsg (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR allocbi ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR allocbi ()
is compatible with
.IR MacOT \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR allocbi ()
is an
.IR MacOT \(rg-specific
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The more portable
.BR allocb (9)
or
.BR esballoc (9)
function should be used in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR allocbi ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR MacOT \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR MacOT \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
.]
differ from that of
.IR MacOT \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR allocbi ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR MacOT \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR allocbi ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR maccompat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR MacOT \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
macotr
.]
.[
macspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR allocbi ()
first appeared in
.IR MacOT \(rg.
.BR allocbi ()
is probably a Mentat, Inc. function that goes all the way back to the
.RI pre-
OSF/1
.I Mentat
implementation.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
