'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man9/allocb_physreq.9.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH ALLOCB_PHYSREQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B allocb_physreq
\- allocate a \fISTREAMS\fP message and data block
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _UW7_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *allocb_physreq(size_t " size ", unsigned int " bpri ", physreq_t *" physrp );
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I size
the size of the message buffer to allocate
.TP
.I bpri
the priority of the request.
.TP
.I physrp
a pointer to a
.BR physreq (9)
structure specifying the physical requirements of the data buffer.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
allocates a message block and a data block of the requested
.IR size " and " bpri
subject to the memory constraints specified by the structure indicated by
.IR physrp .
.I physrp
points to a
.BR physreq (9)
structure.
.PP
If the requested
.I size
is less than the
.I STREAMS
constant
.B FASTBUF
then a data block of size
.B FASTBUF
will be created.
If the requested
.I size
is larger than the
.I STREAMS
constant
.B FASTBUF
then a data block of size
.I size
will be created.
.PP
The
.I bpri
can be one of the following values:
.sp
.TS
expand tab(:);
lb0ls.
BPRI_LO\ \ :requests a low priority message buffer.
BPRI_MED\ \ :requests a medium priority message buffer.
BPRI_HI\ \ :requests a high priority message buffer.
.TE
.PP
If
.BR allocb_physreq ()
is called with a
.I bpri
other than
.BR BPRI_HI ", " BPR_MED " or " BPRI_LO ,
the request will be serviced as
.BR BPRI_LO .
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
accepts a pointer
.I phsyreq_ptr
to a
.BR physreq (9)
structure providing the memory constraints on the resulting data block is
provided as an argument.  If
.I physrp
is
.BR NULL ,
calling
.BR allocb_physreq ()
returns the identical result as would a call to
.BR allocb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR allocb_physreq ()
will
return an
.BR mblk_t (9)
pointer to the allocated message block.
The allocated message block will have a data block type of
.BR M_DATA (9).
All bands and flags will be cleared.
.I b_rptr
and
.I b_wptr
will be set to the beginning of the data block buffer area.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR allocb_physreq ()
will
return a
.B NULL
message pointer.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When an error occurs,
.BR allocb_physreq ()
will return a
.B NULL
message pointer.
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
will only fail if there is insufficient memory to allocate the necessary
datastructures for the message block, data block or data buffer, given the
value of
.I size
and
.IR bpri ,
subject to the specified memory constraints specified by
.IR  physrp .
.PP
Failure to allocate a message block is typically followed by a call to
.BR bufcall (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
is MP-safe.  The caller has exclusive access to the returned message.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
is a
.IR UnixWare \(rg-specific
function:
.B _UW7_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_UW7
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_UW7_MODULE
defined.
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and, despite the description above, ignores the
.I physrp
argument.
.PP
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should not use
.BR allocb_physreq ().
To control the physical requirement of the memory allocated, allocate the
memory using a suitable kernel memory allocator (such as
.BR kmalloc (9)
or
.BR get_freepages (9)
with suitable
.I gpf_flags
such as
.BR GFP_DMA )
and then use
.BR esballoc (9)
to allocate the message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mblk_t (9),
.BR physreq (9),
.BR allocb (9),
.BR freeb (9),
.BR freemsg (9),
.BR bufcall (9),
.BR esballoc (9),
.BR uw7compat (9).
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
is source level compatible with
.IR UnixWare \(rg
with the following considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Despite the description above,
.BR allocb_physreq ()
is not specially implemented and results in a simple call to
.BR allocb (9)
with the argument
.I physrp
being largely ignored.
.IP \(em
.I STREAMS
modules relying on
.BR allocb_physreq ()
should consider the following aspects of
.B Linux
memory allocation: (1) allocations are always aligned to the next largest
power of 2 boundary greater than the requested size; (2) allocations of
greater than a page size result in contiguous memory allocations; (3)
allocations of greater than a page size are aligned to a page boundary.
.IP \(em
This function is not provided by
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
nor any other
.I SVR 4
based implementation with the exception of
.IR UnixWare \(rg.
.IP \(em
.BR allocb_physreq ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR UnixWare \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR UnixWare \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structure and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
.]
differ from that of
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR allocb_physreq ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR UnixWare \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.  Any and all functionality provided by
.BR allocb_physreq ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR uw7compat (9)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documentation.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.[
uw7spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq ()
first appeared in
.IR UnixWare \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
