'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man9/allocq.9.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH ALLOCQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B allocq, mi_allocq
\- allocate a \fISTREAMS\fP queue pair
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.B queue_t *allocq(void);
.PP
.B #define _MAC_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/pse.h>
.HP
.BI "queue_t *mi_allocq(struct streamtab *" st );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I st
a pointer to the
.BR streamtab (9)
structure used to represent the
.I STREAMS
driver or module to which the queue pair will belong.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Allocate a new
.BR NULL -initialized
queue pair,
.BR queue (9).
Queue pairs allocated with
.BR allocq ()
can be freed with
.BR freeq (9).
.PP
Queue pairs allocated with
.BR allocq ()
will have no
.IR qi_putp (9),
.IR qi_srvp (9),
.IR qi_qopen (9),
or
.IR qi_qclose (9),
procedures associated with either
queue, will have zero maximum and minimum packet sizes and high and low water
marks; and will have no synchronization queues associated with the queue pair.
.\"
.SS /proc File System
.PP
A
.BR queue (9)
structure pair is dynamically allocated for every instance of a Stream head, driver or module,
within a Stream.
.BR allocq ()
monitors the number of
.BR queue (9)
structure pairs currently allocated, and the high water mark for allocations since the last reboot.
The counts and high water mark can be viewed in
.BR proc (5)
file system under
.BR /proc/streams/strinfo .
See
.BR Strinfo (9)
for details. 
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.PP
Although this function is documented as an internal function of
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
magic
.]
.BR allocq ()
is not normally called directly by
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.  This function is normally internal to the
.I STREAMS
subsystem, yet,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides an exported version of this function for use by drivers and modules
so that private queue pairs can be allocated.
.PP
All
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
queue functions (e.g., 
.BR putq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR appq (9),
.BR rmvq (9))
are designed to allow them to be executed on a detached queue pair.  This function can be used to
allocate a private queue pair for use as a message buffer by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.  The queue pair is not linked into any stream and no message size or water
marks or queue procedures are associated with the queue.
.PP
Message sizes, water marks and procedures can be associated with a private queue pair using
.BR setq (9).
.PP
The queue can also be pushed onto or removed from a stream using
.BR qattach (9)
and
.BR qdetach (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
Upon success,
.BR allocq ()
returns the newly allocated queue pair as a pointer to the read queue of the
pair.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR allocq ()
returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR allocq ()
encounters and error, it fails and returns
.BR NULL .
.BR allocq ()
fails when there is insufficient
.B queinfo
cache memory available to allocate the queue pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR allocq ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR allocq ()
is MP-safe.  The caller has exclusive access to the returned queue pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although this function is documented as an internal function of
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
magic
.]
.BR allocq ()
it is not normally called directly by
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers.  This function is normally internal to the
.I STREAMS
scheduler, yet,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides an exported version of this function for use by modules and drivers
so that private queue pairs can be allocated.
.PP
All
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
queue functions (e.g., 
.BR putq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR appq (9),
.BR rmvq (9))
can be executed on a detached queue pair.  This function can be used to
allocate a private queue pair for use as a message buffer by
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.  The queue pair is not linked into any stream and no
message size or water marks or queue procedures are associated with the queue.
.PP
Message sizes, water marks and procedures can be associated with a private
queue pair using
.BR setq (9).
.PP
The queue can also be pushed onto or removed from a stream using
.BR qattach (9)
and
.BR qdetach (9).
.PP
This function should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR freeq (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR appq (9),
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR setq (9),
.BR proc (5),
.BR Strinfo (9),
.BR qattach (9),
.BR qdetach (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR allocq ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR allocq ()
is compatible with
.I SVR 4.2 MP
and systems based on
.I SVR
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR mi_allocq ()
is provided for compatibility with
.IR MacOT \(rg.
.BR mi_allocq ()
simply calls
.BR allocq ()
directly, ignoring the
.I st
argument.
.IP \(em
.BR allocq ()
should not be called by normal
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules and is implementation specific.
.IP \(em
This function is not exported by
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI " or
any other UNIX directly.
It is declared in some earlier
.I SVR 3
.I <sys/stream.h>
header files.
.IP \(em
Source and binary compatibility is not guaranteed, even from version to version and release to
release.
.PP
See
.BR maccompat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Although
.BR allocq ()
appears in some early
.I AT&T
header files, it is not documented in the
.IR "SVR 4.2 STREAMS Programmer's Guide" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.PP
.BR allocq ()
is compliant with the description of the internal
.BR allocq ()
function in
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
as described in
.IR "\*(lqThe Magic Garden\*(rq" .
.[
magic
.]
.PP
.BR mi_allocq ()
is compatible with
.IR MacOT \(rg.
.[
macdoc
.]
.[
macspg
.]
There is very little documentation avilable on
.BR mi_allocq ().
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR allocq ()
is an internal
.I "SVR 4"
.I STREAMS
function described in
.IR "\*(lqThe Magic Garden\*(rq" .
.[
magic
.]
.PP
.BR allocq ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.PP
.BR mi_allocq ()
is likely the equivalent
.I Mentat
function.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
