'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: allocstr.9.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:36 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:36 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: allocstr.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:36  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH ALLOCSTR 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B allocstr
\- allocate a
.I STREAMS
stream head
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.B struct stdata *allocstr(void);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR allocstr ()
dynamically allocates and returns a
.I STREAMS
internal Stream head,
.BR stdata (9)
structure.
.BR stdata (9)
structures allocated with
.BR allocstr ()
can be freed with
.BR freestr (9).
.PP
Some implementations accept a queue pair as an argument.
.BR allocstr ()
allocates a queue pair for the Stream head using
.BR allocq (9)
and accepts no agruments.
.\"
.SS /proc File System
.PP
A
.BR stdata (9)
structure is dynamically allocated for every instance of a Stream head.
.BR allocstr ()
monitors the number of
.BR stdata (9)
structures currently allocated, and the high water mark for allocations since the last reboot.  The
counts and high water mark can be viewed in the
.BR proc (5)
file system under
.BR /proc/streams/strinfo .
See
.BR Strinfo (9)
for details.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR allocstr ()
will return a pointer to a
.I STREAMS
stream head.
.HP
Upon failure,
.BR allocstr ()
will return a
.B NULL
pointer.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When an error occurs,
.BR allocstr ()
will return a
.BR NULL
pointer.
.BR allocstr ()
fails when there is insufficient cache memory to satisfy the allocation request.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR allocstr ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures, call outs, callbacks,
soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR allocstr ()
is MP-safe.  The caller has exclusive access to the returned stream head.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR allocstr ()
is an internal function, and is not recommended for usage by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
.BR allocstr ()
is only made available for use by specialized modules distributed with this
.I STREAMS
package (such as
.BR connld (4)),
and for compatibility with
.I SVR 3
systems predating the
.IR "SVR 4 DDI/DKI" .
Unlike
.BR allocq (9),
(which makes some sense for private queue pairs),
.BR allocstr ()
poses no useful portable purpose.
.BR allocstr ()
will not be called by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR allocstr ()
simply calls
.BR allocq (9)
to allocate a queue pair, allocates an
.BR stdata (9)
structure from memory cache, and intializes the
.BR stdata (9)
structure to point to the allocated queue pair, and returns a pointer to the
.BR stdata (9)
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR freestr (9),
.BR Strinfo (9),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR allocstr ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR allocstr ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4"
.[
usldk
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Some older
.I AT&T
header files from
.IR "SVR 3"
show this function as accepting a
.BR queue (9)
pointer as an argument.  Others do not.
.IP ""
.BR allocstr ()
will not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
.IP \(em
.BR allocstr ()
should not be called by normal
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules and is implementation specific.
.IP \(em
This function is not exported by
.I "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
or any other UNIX directly.  It is declared in some earlier
.I SVR 3
.I <sys/stream.h>
header files.
.IP \(em
Source and binary compatibility is not guaranteed, even from version to version and release to
release.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Although
.BR allocstr ()
appears in some early
.I AT&T
header files, it is not documented in the
.IR "SVR 4.2 STREAMS Programmer's Guide" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.PP
.BR allocstr ()
is compliant with the description of the internal
.BR allocstr ()
function in
.I SVR 4
as described in
.IR "\*(lqThe Magic Garden\*(rq" .
.[
magic
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR allocstr ()
is an internal
.I "SVR 4"
.I STREAMS
function described in
.IR "\*(lqThe Magic Garden\*(rq" .
.[
magic
.]
.PP
.BR allocstr ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
