'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: apush_set.9.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:38:32 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:38:32 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: apush_set.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:38:32  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH APUSH_SET 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B apush_set
\- set the autopush list associated with a \fISTREAMS\fP driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _LIS_SOURCE
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/sad.h>
.HP
.BI "int apush_set(struct strapush *" sap );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I sap
a pointer to a
.B strapush
structure describing the \fISTREAMS\fP driver and the autopush list to set.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR apush_set ()
sets the autopush list associated with the \fISTREAMS\fP character device
specified in
.IR sap->sap_major " and " sap->sap_minor
into the module list in the passed in
.B strapush
structure,
.IR sap .
.PP
.I sap
is a pointer to a
.B strapush
structure as follows:
.nf
\fC\s-2
struct strapush {
        unsigned long sap_cmd;
        major_t sap_major;
        minor_t sap_minor;
        minor_t sap_lastminor;
        size_t sap_npush;
        char sap_list[MAXAPUSH][FMNAMESZ + 1];
};
\s+2\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIsap_lastminor\fR\(em'u
.I sap_cmd
specifies on call the command to execute when setting the autopush list.
.I sap_cmd
can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSAP_CLEAR\fR\(em'u
.B SAP_CLEAR
requests that the autopush list for the \fISTREAMS\fP driver specified by
.I sap_major
and
.I sap_minor
be cleared.
.TP
.B SAP_ONE
requests that the autopush list for the \fISTREAMS\fP driver specified by
.I sap_major
and
.I sap_minor
be set to the modules named in the
.I sap_npush
and
.I sap_list
members.
.TP
.B SAP_RANGE
request that the autopush list for the \fISTREAMS\fP driver specified by the
.I sap_major
and range of minor devices from
.I sap_minor
to
.I sap_lastminor
(inclusive)
be set to the modules named in the
.I sap_npush
and
.I sap_list
members.
.TP
.B SAP_ALL
requests that the autopush list for all minor device of the \fISTREAMS\fP
driver specified by
.I sap_major
be set to the modules named in the
.I sap_npush
and
.I sap_list
members.
.RE
.TP
.I sap_major
on call specifies the major device number of the \fISTREAMS\fP device for
which to set the list of autopush modules; unchanged on return.
.TP
.I sap_minor
on call specifies the minor device number, or initial minor device number in a
range, of the \fISTREAMS\fP device for which to set the list of autopush
modules; unchanged on return.
.I sap_minor
is ignored when
.I sap_cmd
is
.BR SAP_ALL .
.TP
.I sap_lastminor
on call specifies the minor device number, or last minor device in a range for
the \fISTREAMS\fP device for which to set the list of autopush modules;
unchanged on return.
.TP
.I sap_npush
specifies the number of module names in the
.I sap_list
member array; unchanged on return.
.I sap_npush
is ignored when
.I sap_cmd
is
.BR SAP_CLEAR .
.TP
.I sap_list
specifies an array containing
.I sap_npush
module names; unchanged on return.
.I sap_list
is ignored when
.I sap_cmd
is
.BR SAP_CLEAR .
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR apush_set ()
is functionally equivalent to the
.BR SAD_SAP
input-output control to the
.BR sad (4)
driver.
The
.BR apush_set ()
function is a useful way for a driver or module to manipulate the autopush
list associated with a \fISTREAMS\fP driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR apush_set ()
returns zero (0) and the requested function is performed.
Upon failure,
.BR apush_set ()
leaves the autopush list for the device unchanged and returns a negative error
number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR apush_set ()
returns one of the following negative error numbers:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I sap->sap_cmd ", " sap->sap_major ", " sap->sap_minor " or " sap->sap_lasminor
were invalid.
.TP
.RB [ ENODEV ]
a \fISTREAMS\fP character special device did not exist for the specified
.I sap->sap_major " and " sap->sap_minor
combination and a kernel module associated with the device was not
successfully loaded.
.TP
.RB [ EEXIST ]
a device was specified that already has an autopush list and the
.I sap_cmd
was not
.BR SAP_CLEAR .
.TP
.RB [ ENOSTR ]
the device specified is not a \fISTREAMS\fP device.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
resources (an autopush list structure) could not be allocated to complete the call.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR apush_set ()
can be called from any blocking context, including user context and queue
.IR qi_qopen (9)
and
.IR qi_qclose (9)
routines.
.\"can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures, callouts, callbacks, soft
.\"interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR apush_set ()
is MP-safe.
The caller must ensure exclusive access to the passed in
.B strapush
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR apush_set ()
is an
.IR @PACKAGE@ -specific
function.
.PP
.BR apush_set ()
is an internal implementation specific function, and will not be used directly by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
.PP
Calling
.BR apush_set ()
has the kernel module side-effect that if a \fISTREAMS\fP device associated
with
.I sap->sap_major
and
.I sap->sap_minor
does not currently exist in the system, an attempt will be made to load the
character driver associated with
.I sap->sap_major
before return.
No attempt, however, is made to load any kernel modules associated with the
autopush modules in the list.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sad (4),
.BR strapush (5),
.BR apush_get (9),
.BR apush_vml (9),
.BR autopush (9),
.BR autopush_add (9),
.BR autopush_del (9),
.BR autopush_find (9),
.BR autopush_search (9),
.BR autopush_vml (9),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR apush_set ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR apush_set ()
has the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.I SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.I SVR 4
do not export this function.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
.I SAD
.RI ( STREAMS
Administrative Driver).  See
.BR sad (4).
.BR apush_set ()
is not subject to standardization.
For the
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
specific function, see
.BR autopush_add "(9) and " autopush_del (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR apush_set ()
is specific to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
