'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man9/backq.9.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH BACKQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B backq
\- find the upstream or downstream queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "queue_t *backq(queue_t *" q );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I q
the queue for which to find the previous queue.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR backq ()
returns a pointer to the queue behind a given queue.  That is, it returns a pointer to the queue
whose
.I q_next
pointer is
.IR q .
If no such queue exists (as when
.I q
is at a
Stream head
or
.IR "Stream end" ),
.BR backq ()
returns
.BR NULL .
.PP
.BR backq ()
returns a pointer to the queue
which feeds messages to
.IR q .
.\".PP
.\"If
.\".I q
.\"references a normal read queue, then the returned queue pointer references the
.\"downstream queue.  If
.\".I q
.\"references a normal write queue, then the returned queue pointer references
.\"the upstream queue.
.\".PP
.\"If
.\".I q
.\"references a
.\".BR fifo (4s)
.\"read queue, then the returned queue pointer references the
.\".BR fifo (4s)
.\"write queue.  If
.\".I q
.\"references a
.\".BR fifo (4s)
.\"write queue, then the returned queue pointer references the
.\".BR fifo (4s)
.\"read queue.
.\".PP
.\"If
.\".I q
.\"references a
.\".BR pipe (4)
.\"read queue, then the returned queue pointer references the
.\"write queue at the other end of the
.\".BR pipe (4).
.\"If
.\".I q
.\"references a
.\".BR pipe (4)
.\"write queue, then the returned queue pointer references the
.\"read queue at the other end of the
.\".BR pipe (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR backq ()
is problematic in MP systems.
MP-safe drivers and modules should avoid using this function.
When
.BR backq ()
is absolutely necessary, it should only be called from a module procedure and
should only be passed a
.I q
belonging to the queue pair for which a module procedure is synchronized.
.PP
Normally it is unnecessary to know the queue feeding a given queue.
.I STREAMS
utilities
.BR getq (9)
and
.BR rmvq (9)
handle back-enabling.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR backq ()
returns a pointer to the feeding queue, or
.B NULL
when there is no feeding queue.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR backq ()
always succeeds.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR backq ()
can only be invoked from a
.I STREAMS
context synchronous on
.IR q ,
that is, a queue procedure, call-out or synchronized callback.
To use this utility from sofwtare interrupts, bottom-halves, tasklets or interrupt service routines,
bracket the call with
.BR freezestr (9)
and
.BR unfreezestr (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR backq ()
is MP-safe when invoked from the correct context.
The caller is responsible for the validity of the passed in queue pointer,
.IR q ,
across the call.
.PP
When called from outside of the
.I STREAMS
context, the returned queue reference might no longer be valid
after the return from
.BR backq ()
if an
.BR I_PUSH (7),
or
.BR I_POP (7),
of a module has been performed on the queue
.IR q ,
or the queue
.I q
has been welded with
.BR weldq (9),
or unwelded with
.BR unweldq (9).
.PP
If the
Stream
is frozen using
.BR freezestr (9)
before the call to
.BR backq (),
the returned queue reference will be valid until after a call to
.BR unfreezestr (9),
or the queue pointers are otherwise manipulated by the caller.
.PP
See also
.BR mp-streams (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR backq (),
is obsolete.
.\"There are no utility functions that protect dereference of the
.\".BI OTHERQ( q ) ->q_next
.\"across the return from the call (such as
.\".I q->q_next
.\"is protected by, for example,
.\".BR putnext (9)).
.\".BR backq (),
.\"should not be used by portable MP-safe modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR unfreezestr (9),
.BR strqget (9),
.BR strqset (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR backq ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR backq ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4"
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
.[
suxdoc
.]
does not document this function.
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
lists
.BR backq ()
as a function that can only be passed a queue in the queue pair currently
being synchronized within a module procedure.
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
also lists
.BR backq ()
as a utility that cannot be called from user functions or
.RI non- STREAMS
code; that is, contexts asynchronous to the Stream containing
.IR q .
.IP ""
.IR HP-UX \(rg
compatible drivers and modules will not call
.BR backq ()
from outside of a
.BR qinit (9)
routine for the queue pair of
.IR q .
.IP \(em
.BR backq ()
returns
.B NULL
if
.I q
points to a Stream end read queue, regardless of whether a FIFO or PIPE
midpoint exists beyond
.IR q .
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdoc
.]
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
indicate that the returned pointer is
.B NULL
if
.I q
is a Stream head write queue or a Stream end read queue.
.IP \(em
.BR backq ()
returns
.B NULL
if
.I q
points to a Stream end read queue, regardless of whether a FIFO or PIPE
midpoint exists beyond
.IR q .
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
.[
uxpdoc
.]
do not explicitly document what happens in the case of FIFOs and PIPEs, but
indicate that the queue pointer returned is that whose
.I q_next
pointer points to
.IR q .
.IP \(em
.BR backq ()
is a function.
.BR backq ()
is implemented as a \(lqC\(rq pre-processor macro in some implementations.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules won't care whether
.BR backq ()
is a \(lqC\(rq function or a pre-processor macro.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR backq ()
appeared as part of
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR backq ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
