'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH COPYB 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B copyb
\- copy a \fISTREAMS\fR message block
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *copyb(mblk_t *" mp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I mp
the message block to copy.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR copyb ()
generates a new copy of the message block and data block and buffer indicated
by
.IR mp ,
and returns a pointer to the new message block.
The new data block has the same type as the copied data block and the
.IR b_rptr " and " b_wptr
in the new message block are set to the beginning and end of the copied data
in the new data block and buffer.
.PP
The data buffer copied consists of only the portions between the
.I b_rptr
and
.I b_wptr
of the passed in message block.
.PP
.BR copyb ()
calls
.BR allocb (9)
to copy message blocks with priority
.BR BRPI_MED .
Message alignment and memory type assurances are as described in
.BR allocb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR copyb ()
returns a pointer to the new message block.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR copyb ()
returns a
.B NULL
pointer.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR copyb ()
fails, it returns a
.B NULL
pointer.
.BR copyb ()
can fail because the passed in message pointer,
.IR mp ,
is
.BR NULL ;
the size of the data buffer is negative;
the size of the data indicated by
.IR b_rptr " and " b_wptr
of the message block to be copied is negative;
or memory allocation failed.
Normally if
.B copyb
fails,
.BR bufcall (9)
should be called with the
.I size
of the data block necessary and the
.I priority
associated with the operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR copyb ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR copyb ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller must ensure exclusive access to the passed in
message block.  On return, the caller has the only reference to the returned
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR copyb ()
allocates message blocks with priority
.BR BPRI_MED .
See
.BR allocb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR bufcall (9),
.BR copymsg (9),
.BR dupb "(9) and
.BR dupmsg (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR copyb ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR copyb ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementattions based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR copyb ()
copies both the
.I b_band
and
.I b_flag
members of the passed in message block to the returned message block.
.IR AIX \(rg
copies
.IR b_band ,
but not
.IR b_flag ,
members.
.IR Solaris \(rg
copies both
.I b_band
and
.I b_flag
members.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should not rely on any
.BR msgb (9)
fields being copied into the returned message block and should copy or
reinitialize all significant fields (such as
.IR b_band " and " b_flag ).
.IP \(em
.BR copyb ()
aligns the new data buffer in the same manner as if
.BR allocb (9)
was called and the data was copied between
.IR db_base " and " db_lim .
(See
.BR msgb "(9) and " datab (9)).
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
make no assurances whatsoever about the resulting alignment.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should make no assumptions about the alignment of data
resulting from a
.BR copyb ()
or
.BR copymsg (9)
operation.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR copyb ()
appeared as part of
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR copyb ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
