'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ddi_umem_alloc.9.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:38:42 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:38:42 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ddi_umem_alloc.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:38:42  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DDI_UMEM_ALLOC 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ddi_umem_alloc
\- allocate page aligned kernel memory
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/sunddi.h>
.HP
void \fBddi_umem_alloc\fR(size_t \fIsize\fR, int \fIflag\fR, ddi_umem_cookie_t *\fIcookiep\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I size
Number of bytes to allocate.
.TP
.I flag
Determines type of memory requested.  A combination of:
.RS
.TP
.B DDI_UMEM_SLEEP
Sleep waiting for memory.
.TP
.B DDI_UMEM_NOSLEEP
Don't sleep waiting for memory.
.TP
.B DDI_UMEM_PAGEABLE
Allocated non-locked memory.
.RE
.TP
.I cookiep
Pointer to kernel memory cookie.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR ddi_umem_alloc ()
allocates page-aligned kernel memory and returns a pointer to the allocated
memory.  The number of bytes allocated is a multiple of the system page size
(roundup of
.IR size ).
The allocated memory can be used in the kernel and can be exported to user
space.  See
.BR devmap (9)
and
.BR devmap_umem_setup (9)
for further information.
.PP
The
.I flag
argument determines whether the caller can sleep for memory and whether the
allocated memory is locked or not.
.B DDI_UMEM_SLEEP
allocations may sleep but are guaranteed to succeed.
.B DDI_UMEM_NOSLEEP
allocations do not sleep but may fail (return
.BR NULL )
if memory is currently unavailable.  If
.B DDI_UMEM_PAGEABLE
is set, pageable memory will be allocated.  These pages can be swapped out to
secondary memory devices.  The initial contents of memory allocated using
.BR ddi_umem_alloc ()
is zero-filled.
.PP
The
.I cookiep
argument is a pointer to a kernel memory cookie that describes the kernel
memory being allocated.  A typical use of
.I cookiep
is in
.BR devmap_umem_setup (9)
when the drivers want to export the kernel memory to a user application.
.PP
To free the allocated memory, a driver calls
.BR ddi_umem_free (9)
with the cookie obtained from
.BR ddi_umem_alloc ().
.BR ddi_umem_free (9)
releases the entire buffer.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR ddi_umem_alloc ()
succeeds, it returns  a pointer to the allocated memory;
when it fails, it returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR ddi_umem_alloc ()
fails when 
.I flag
is set to
.B DDI_UMEM_NOSLEEP
and memory is not immediately available.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR ddi_umem_alloc ()
can be called from any context with
.B DDI_UMEM_NOSLEEP
but user context only with
.BR DDI_UMEM_SLEEP .
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR ddi_umem_alloc ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
\fBddi_umem_alloc\fR(0, \fIflag\fR, \fIcookiep\fR)
always returns
.BR NULL .
.PP
.BR ddi_umem_alloc ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function:
.B _SUN_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ddi_umem_free (9),
.BR suncompat (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ddi_umem_alloc ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ddi_umem_alloc ()
is compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.BR ddi_umem_alloc ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR Solaris \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
differ from that of
.IR Solaris \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR ddi_umem_alloc ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR Solaris \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR ddi_umem_alloc ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR suncompat (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Solaris \(rg
SUNDDI documentation.
.[
soldoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ddi_umem_alloc ()
first appeared in
.IR Solaris \(rg
2.5.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
