'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: do_spipe.9.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:38:42 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:38:42 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: do_spipe.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:38:42  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DO_SPIPE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B do_spipe
\- implement the \fBpipe\fR(2) system call
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strsubr.h>
.HP
.BI "long do_spipe(int *" fds ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fds
an array of two integers into which to return file descriptors for either end of the pipe.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR do_spipe ()
is a
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
internal implementation specific function that
creates a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4)
and returns the file descriptors for either end of the pipe in the two element integer array pointed
to by
.IR fds .
The difference between this and the usual
.B Linux
.BR do_pipe ()
call is that
.BR do_spipe ()
creates and returns a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR do_spipe ()
is used by the Stream head,
.BR sth (4)
module, to emulate the
.BR pipe (2s)
system call using the
.BR I_PIPE (7)
.BR ioctl (2s)
call.
.PP
.BR do_spipe ()
has no other use or purpose, and will not be used by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules other than the Stream head,
.BR sth (4)
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR do_spipe ()
creates the pipe, returns the file descriptors in the array pointed to by
.I fds
and returns zero
.RB ( 0 );
upon failure,
it returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR do_spipe ()
fails, the pipe is not created, and
.BR do_spipe ()
returns an appropriate negative error number as follows:
.TP \w'[\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ ENFILE ]
no available file descriptor for the calling process.
.TP
.RB [ ENFILE ]
the system file table is full.
.TP
.RB [ ENFILE ]
an
.B snode
could not be allocated in the
.BR specfs (5)
file system due to insufficient memory.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
an
.B snode
could not be allocated in the
.BR specfs (5)
file system due to insufficient memory.
.TP
.RB [ ENODEV ]
the
.BR specfs (5)
file system could not be mounted.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
a directory entry could not be allocated within the
.BR specfs (5)
file system due to insufficient memory.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
the
.BR pipe (4)
driver does not have file operation associated with it, or or does not support the
.BR open ()
file operation.
.PP
Any error returned by
.BR get_unused_fd ():
.TP \w'[\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
a new array for the file table could not be allocated due to insufficient memory.
.TP
.RB [ EMFILE ]
too many files aare open in the system.
.PP
Any error returned by the
.BR pipe (4)
driver to its
.BR qi_qopen (9)
open routine.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR do_spipe ()
can only be invoked in user process context.  Note that this does include kernel module
initialization and termination routines as well as
.I STREAMS
driver or module
.IR qi_qopen (9)
open routines
and
.IR qi_qclose (9)
close routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR do_spipe ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR do_spipe ()
is an internal
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
function intended to provide the back-end to a
.B Linux
system call.
It is only exported for use by the Stream head,
.BR sth (4),
for
.BR ioctl (2s)
emulation of the
.BR pipe (2s)
system call, when
.BR sth (4)
is configured as a separate loadable kernel module.  (The symbol need not be exported otherwise.)
.PP
.BR do_spipe ()
will not be called by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules calling this function that exist outside the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
package, might be broken from verion to version and release to release.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR do_spipe ()
is implemented simply by
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR pipe (2s),
.BR close (2s),
.BR sth (4),
.BR I_FDETACH (7),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR do_spipe ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
See
.BR pipe (2s)
for compatibility.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
See
.BR pipe (2s)
for conformance.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR do_spipe ()
is new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
