'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DUPMSG 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B dupmsg
\- duplicate a \fISTREAMS\fR message
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *dupmsg(mblk_t *" mp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I mp
a pointer to a message to duplicate.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR dupmsg ()
duplicates all of the message blocks of a message, keeping the same data
blocks.
The data blocks are reused.  Each data block will have its reference counter
incremented.  If one duplicate message alters the data in a data block, the
change affects all duplicate messages.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR dupmsg ()
returns a pointer to the duplicate message.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR dupmsg ()
returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR dupmsg ()
fails it returns
.BR NULL .
.BR dupmsg ()
fails when the passed in message pointer
.I mp
is
.BR NULL ;
an allocation failure occurs on a message block while duplicating; or, the
reference count of a data block in the message has reached the maximum of 255.
See
.BR dupb (9).
.PP
Normally, if
.BR dupmsg ()
fails and
.I mp
is not
.BR NULL ,
.BR esbbcall(9) 
should be called with the
.I priority
associated with the message for which duplication failed.  However, if the
reference count,
.IR db_ref ,
of a data block in the message has reached the maximum of 255,
.BR copymsg (9)
might succeed and a buffer callback is not appropriate.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR dupmsg ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR dupmsg ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR dupmsg ()
is implemented as a looping call to
.BR dupb (9).
One call to
.BR dupb (9)
is made for each message block.  If
.BR dupb (9)
fails, the partially duplicated message is freed using
.BR freemsg (9).
.PP
See notices under
.BR dupb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR dupb (9),
.BR copyb (9),
.BR copymsg (9),
.BR freemsg (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR dupmsg ()
has no known bugs.
.PP
Versions of
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
previous to
.B 0.9.2.3
had the bug that the reference count on data blocks was be permitted to
wrap to zero.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR dupmsg ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
When
.BR dupmsg ()
is passed a
.B NULL
.I mp
pointer, the results are undefined.  When
.B LiS
.[
lis
.]
.BR dupmsg ()
is passed a
.B NULL
.I mp
pointer, it returns
.BR NULL .
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should not pass
.B NULL
or invalid message block pointers to this function.
.IP \(em
.B LiS
used to have some problems serializing access to the reference count in data blocks which caused
inconsistencies in the reference count when duplicate messages were freed.
.\".PP
.\"Symbol
.\".BR lis_dupmsg ()
.\"is provided for compatibility with
.\".BR LiS .
.\"See
.\".BR liscompat (9).
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR dupmsg ()
appears as part of
.I "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR dupmsg ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
