'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH ITOEMAJOR 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B itoemajor
\- convert an internal major device number to an external major device number
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _UW7_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "int itoemajor(major_t " imajor ", int " prevmajor );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I imajor
The internal major device number to convert to an external major device
number.
.TP
.I prevmajor
The previous external major device number obtained by calling
.BR itoemajor (),
or
.B NODEV
if
.BR itoemajor ()
is being called to obtain the first external major device number.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
returns an external major device number associated with the internal major
device number,
.IR imajor .
When
.I prevmajor
is set to
.BR NODEV ,
.BR itoemajor ()
returns the first major device number associated with the internal major
device number,
.IR imajor .
When
.I prevmajor
is set to the external major device number returned from a previous invocation
of
.BR itoemajor (),
the call returns the next external major device number associated with the
internal major device number, or
.BR NODEV ,
if no subsequent external major device number is associated.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
is intended to be called iteratively, passing the previously returned external
major device number as the
.I prevmajor
argument of each subsequent call until
.B NODEV
is returned.  In this way, all of the external major device numbers associated
with a particular internal major device number can be obtained.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR itoemajor ()
succeeds, it returns 
the first or next external major device number associated with the internal
major device number
.IR imajor ;
when it fails, it returns
.BR NODEV .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
fails when there is no subsequent external major device number associated with
.IR imajor ,
or when the supplied internal major device number,
.IR imajor ,
is invalid.
An invalid internal major device number is an internal major device number
that has no external major device number associated with it.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
is an
.IR "SVR 4.2" -specific
function:
.B _SVR4_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose these symbols.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR4
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR4_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MAJOR (9),
.BR MINOR (9),
.BR MKDEV (9),
.BR major (9),
.BR minor (9),
.BR makedev (9),
.BR emajor (9),
.BR eminor (9),
.BR makedevice (9),
.BR getmajor (9),
.BR getminor (9),
.BR getemajor (9),
.BR geteminor (9),
.BR etoimajor (9),
.BR itoemajor (9),
.BR ddi_driver_major (9),
.BR ddi_getiminor (9),
.BR ddi_create_minor_node (9),
.BR ddi_remove_minor_node (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
is compatible with
.I SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4dk
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR itoemajor ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.I SVR 4
for the purpose of porting
.I SVR 4
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
differ from that of
.I SVR 4
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR itoemajor ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.I SVR 4
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR itoemajor ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4dk
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
