'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man9/M_IOCACK.9.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M_IOCACK 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_IOCACK
\- \fISTREAMS\fP IO control acknowledgement message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_IOCACK
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains structured data.
.PP
An
.B M_IOCACK
message is a high priority message that consists of one
.B M_IOCACK
message block followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks.
.PP
The
.B M_IOCACK
message block contains a
.BR iocblk (9)
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct iocblk {
    int ioc_cmd;        /* ioctl command type */
    cred_t *ioc_cr;     /* full credentials */
    uint ioc_id;        /* ioctl identifier */
    ulong ioc_count;    /* byte count for ioctl data */
    int ioc_error;      /* error code for M_IOCACK/NAK */
    int ioc_rval;       /* return value for M_IOCACK */
    long ioc_filler[4]; /* reserved for future use */
#define ioc_flag ioc_filler[1]; /* IOC_NATIVE or IOC_ILP32 */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
where,
.TP \w'ioc_count\(em'u
.I ioc_cmd
contains the corresponding command from the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message block.
.TP
.I ioc_cr
contains the corresponding user credentials pointer from the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message block.
.TP
.I ioc_id
contains the corresponding IO control identifier from the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message block.
.TP
.I ioc_count
contains the count of the number of bytes to be copied to the user by the
Stream head with
.BR copyout (9),
contained in the attached
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block(s).
.TP
.I ioc_error
contains the error number for the Stream head to return to the user in
.IR errno (3).
.TP
.I ioc_rval
contains the return value for the Stream head to return to the user on the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call that began the operation.
.TP
.I ioc_flag
is ignored by the Stream head in the
.B M_IOCACK
message.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_IOCACK
message is generated and sent from the driver or module processing an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message.
The
.B M_IOCACK
message signals to the Stream head the positive acknowlegment of the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message and completion of the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.
.PP
The message format is one
.B M_IOCACK
block (containing an
.BR iocblk (9)
structure, see
.BR M_IOCTL (9))
followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks.  The
.BR iocblk (9)
structure may contain a value in
.I ioc_rval
to be returned to the user process.  It may also contain a value in
.I ioc_error
to be returned to the user process in
.BR errno (3).
.PP
If this message is responding to an
.BR I_STR (7)
.BR ioctl (2s)
[see
.BR streamio (7)],
it may contain data from the receiving driver or module to be copied to the user process by the
Stream head with
.BR copyout (9).
In this
case, message format is one
.B M_IOCACK
block followed by one or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks containing the user data.
The responding driver or module will set
.I ioc_count
to the number of bytes to be copied out from the attached
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block(s).
.PP
The
Stream head
returns the data to the user if there is a corresponding outstanding
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
request (that is, one with the same
.IR ioc_id ).
Otherwise, the
.B M_IOCACK
message is ignored and all blocks in the message are freed.
.PP
Data can not be returned in an
.B M_IOCACK
message responding to a
.I transparent
.BR M_IOCTL (9).
The data must have been sent with preceding
.BR M_COPYOUT (9)
message(s).  If any
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks follow the
.B M_IOCACK
block, the
Stream head
will ignore and free them.
When the
Stream head
receives an
.BR M_IOCACK ,
the outstanding
.BR ioctl (2s)
request, if any, will succeed.
.PP
The format and use of this message type is described further under
.BR M_IOCTL (9).
.\"
.B M_IOCACK
messages cannot be generated directly by a user level process.
.B M_IOCACK
messages arriving at a non-multiplexing driver can be discarded (ignored and freed).
.B M_IOCACK
message can be generated by drivers and modules responding to an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message.
.B M_IOCACK
messages are consumed by the
Stream head.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Guidlines for procesing the
.B M_IOCACK
message are as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Intermediate modules that do not intend to process this message will not queue the
.B M_IOCACK
message upstream.  In any event, an intermediate module must not flush or discard an
.B M_IOCACK
message.
.IP ""
As only one
.BR ioctl (2s)
operation, and therefore, one
.B M_IOCACK
message can be in progress on a Stream,
queueing of the message would cause unnecessary dealy in processing an
.BR ioctl (2s).
Only one high-priority message can be outstanding at the Stream head, so ordering of this message
with respect to other high priority messages is not an issue.
.IP \(bu
Modules or drivers should only issue a
.BR M_IOCACK
message containing a
.I ioc_count
value in response to a non-tranparent
.BR ioctl (2s).
.IP \(bu
The message should be created by transforming a received
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
or
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
message.
.IP \(bu
An intermediate module receiving an
.B M_IOCACK
message on its write-side queue, will pass the message along in the same manner as any unexpected
high priority message: that is, it is passed to the next module and not subjected to flow control.
This permits
.BR ioctl (2s)
handling to perform correctly across a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4).
.IP \(bu
A driver receiving an
.BR M_IOCACK
message discards the message.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Under
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
it is not possible to return an error and a return value at the same time.  This is due to a
.B Linux
limitation in this regard.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_IOCACK
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The order and size of the various members of the
.BR iocblk (9)
structure, and the associated aligned
.BR copyreq (9)
and
.BR copyresp (9)
structures, vary in
.I STREAMS
from implementation to implementation.  Some implementations have different structure definitions
depending upon the word size of a specific architecture.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
follows the
.IR "SVR 4.2"
implementation as closely as possible.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not rely upon a specific overall size of the
.BR iocblk (9)
structure, or the offset or alignment of any of its members.
See
.BR iocblk (9)
for additional compatibiltiy information.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_IOCACK
message first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
