'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M_PASSFP 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_PASSFP
\- \fISTREAMS\fP pass file pointer message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_PASSFP
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains structured data.
.PP
An
.B M_PASSFP
message is a normal priority message that consists of a single
.B M_PASSFP
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_PASSFP
message is used internally by
.I STREAMS
to pass a file pointer from the
Stream head
at one end of a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4)
to the
Stream head
at the other end of the same
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4).
.PP
The message is generated as a result of an
.BR I_SENDFD (7)
command to an
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call issued by a user level process to the sending
Stream head.
.I STREAMS
places the
.B M_PASSFP
message directly on the destination
Stream head's
read queue to be retreived by an
.BR I_RECVFD (7)
command to the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.
The message is placed without passing it through the
Stream
(i.e., it is not seen by any drivers or modules in the
Stream).
This message should never be present on any queue except the read queue of a
Stream head.
Consequently, drivers and modules do not need to recognize this message, and it can be ignored by
driver and module developers.
.PP
There are several reasons why the
.B M_PASSFP
message is placed directly on the opposite
Stream head:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
The message contains a reference to a file pointer (file table entry) within the kernel and must not
be freed without also releasing this reference.
.IP (2)
The message must not be altered by modules in the
Stream.
.IP (3)
Although the message contents are structured, the contents rely on implementation specifics of the
Stream head.
Therefore, the message is of no use to a portable driver or module.
.PP
Because the
.B M_PASSFP
message is placed directly on the opposite
Stream head,
although it is message of normal priority, it is treated as a high priority message.
.\"
.B M_PASSFP
messages can be generated directly by a user level process with the
.BR I_SENDFD (7)
.BR ioctl (2s).
.B M_PASSFP
messages can be consumed directly by a user level process with the
.BR I_RECVFD (7)
.BR ioctl (2s).
.B M_PASSFP
messages should not be generated by drivers or modules.
.B M_PASSFP
messages arriving at a driver or module can be discarded (ignored and freed).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
There is one standard module (besides the
Stream head)
that needs to generate an pass a
.B M_PASSFP
message.  That module is
.BR connld (4).
The
.BR connld (4)
module must pass a file pointer to the
Stream head
opposite to the one that is is pushed over, on each open of the
Stream.
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
implementation of the
.B M_PASSFP
message is detailed below, under
.RI \(lq IMPLEMENTATION \(rg
as documentation for this module and any other module that needs to perform a similar task.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.PP
Under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
.[
lfs
.]
the
.B M_PASSFP
message contains (indirectly)
a file pointer (that is, a pointer to a
.B file
structure as defined in
.RB < linux/fs.h >).
The
Stream head
allocates the message block using the
.BR esballoc (9)
utility instead of
.BR allocb (9).
The free routine and argument to the free routine are special.  The free routine argument is the
file pointer, and the free routine simply releases the reference to the file pointer.
Rather than pointing into the data buffer,
.I b_rptr
points to the free routing argument contained in the
data block,
.BR datab (9),
structure, and
.I b_wptr
points one byte past the argument.
.PP
In this way,
.B M_PASSFP
messages sitting on a
Stream head
read queue can be flushed as normal, using the
.BR flushq (9)
utility, and the reference to each file pointer will be released.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_PASSFP
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Contents of the
.B M_PASSFP
message and implementation of the
.BR sth (4)
and
.BR connld (4)
modules are, by nature, implementation specific.  Neither can be implemented in a fully portable
manner.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not expect the
.B M_PASSFP
message to appear on their queues, and will never generate an
.B M_PASSFP
message.
.IP \(em
.B M_PASSFP
has a different constant value on
older versions of
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfspg
.]
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_PASSFP
message first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
