'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mcopymsg.9.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:38:46 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:38:46 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mcopymsg.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:38:46  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MCOPYMSG 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mcopymsg
\- copy a \fISTREAMS\fR message chain into a buffer
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strsun.h>
.HP
void \fBmcopymsg\fR(mblk_t *\fImp\fR, unsigned char *\fIbuf\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I mp
a pointer to the message blocks to copy into the supplied buffer.
.TP
.I buf
the supplied buffer.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mcopymsg ()
copies all of the message blocks in the message chain pointed to by
.I mp
into the caller supplied buffer,
.IR buf .
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR mcopymsg ()
can be used in
.I STREAMS
.BR ioctl (2s)
handling code to copy data from a
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
or
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
message.
.PP
It is the callers responsibility to ensure that there is sufficient room in the provided buffer to
accept all of the data from the passed in message block chain.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR mcopymsg ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR mcopymsg ()
always succeeds; however, if passed an invalid pointer or argument,
.BR merror ()
could destabilize the kernel or result in a kernel panic.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mcopymsg ()
can be called from any non-interrupt context, but is normally called from a
.I STREAMS
driver or module write-side
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR mcopymsg ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller is responsible for ensuring exclusive access to the passed in
message block.  This is normally the case when
.BR mcopymsg ()
is called from a
.I STREAMS
driver or module write-side
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure and the passed in message pointer is that which
was passed into the procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mcopymsg ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function:
.B _SUN_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mexchange (9),
.BR mexpandb (9),
.BR miocpullup (9),
.BR suncompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mcopymsg ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR mcopymsg ()
is compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR mcopymsg ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function that should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
For maximum portability, the message blocks and structures should be manipulated directly using
standard
.I STREAMS
utilities in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR mcopymsg ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR Solaris \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
differ from that of
.IR Solaris \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR mcopymsg ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR Solaris \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR mcopymsg ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR suncompat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Solaris \(rg
SUNDDI documentation.
.[
soldoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR mcopymsg ()
first appeared in
.IR Solaris \(rg
2.5.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
