'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mi_copy_done.9.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:38:46 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:38:46 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mi_copy_done.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:38:46  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MI_COPY_DONE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mi_copy_done
\- \fBioctl\fR(2) complete
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _MPS_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mpsddi.h>
.HP
.BI "void mi_copy_done(queue_t *" q ", mblk_t *" mp ", int " err );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the current write-side queue whose
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure within which
.BR mi_copy_done ()
is being called.
.TP
.I mp
a pointer to the message block that contains the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
or
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
message being processed.  This is the message that was passed to the write-side
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure within which
.BR mi_copy_done ()
is invoked.
.TP
.I err
the
.BR ioctl (2s)
return value to be set in the
.I ioc_error
field of the
.BR iocblk (9)
structure.  This value will be placed in
.BR errno (3)
when the
.BR ioctl (2s)
call returns.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
DDI.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mi_copy_done ()
is one of a set of helper functions that supports both
.B TRANSPARENT
and
.IR I_STR (7)
input-output controls (see
.BR ioctl (2s)
and
.BR streamio (7)).
These helper functions include:
.BR mi_copyin (9),
.BR mi_copyout (9),
.BR mi_copyout_alloc (9),
.BR mi_copy_done (9),
.BR MI_COPY_CASE (9),
.BR mi_copy_set_rval (9)
and
.BR mi_copy_state (9).
.PP
.BR mi_copy_done ()
is responsible for cleaning up after a tranparent
or
.IR I_STR (7)
.IR ioctl .
.BR mi_copy_done ()
is called to complete a transparent
.IR I_STR (7)
.BR ioctl (2s)
when nothing is being copied out.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
When a given
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message does not result in the copy in or copy out of any data, only an optional call to
.BR mi_copy_set_rval (9)
and a call to
.BR mi_copy_done ()
are required.
.PP
The driver or module write
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure should provide a call to
.BR mi_copy_done ()
for any unexpected
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
or
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
messages, with the
.I err
value of
.RB [ EINVAL ].
.PP
To complete a transparent
or
.IR I_STR (7)
input-output control operation where data is to be copied out,
.BR mi_copyout (9)
is used instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR mi_copy_done ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR mi_copy_done ()
fails when passed invalid pointers.  When
.BR mi_copy_done ()
fails, it panics the kernel.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
See
.BR mi_copyin (9)
and
.BR mi_copyout (9)
for examples of the usage of
.BR mi_copy_done ().
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mi_copy_done ()
can be called from any context, but is intended to be called from within a
.I STREAMS
driver or module put procedure,
.BR qi_putp (9),
or service procedure,
.BR qi_srvp (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR mi_copy_done ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mi_copy_done ()
is an
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
function:
.BR _MPS_SOURCE ,
.B _AIX_SOURCE
or
.B _MAC_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
must also have been compiled with
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS_MODULE ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX_MODULE ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR mi_copy_done ()
frees the internal private message block allocated and attached to the
.I cp_private
member of the
.RB copyresp (9)
structure and then positively or negatively acknowledges the message depending
upon whether the
.I err
argument is zero
(positive acknowledgement with
.BR M_IOCACK (9))
or non-zero
(negative acknowledgement with
.BR M_IOCNAK (9)).
.I err
can be a positive or negative error number.
If the message,
.IR mp ,
is an
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
message block indicating a
.BR copyin (9)
or
.RB copyout (9)
error, then the message block is simply freed and no positive or negative
acknowledgement is returned.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mi_copyin (9),
.BR mi_copyout (9),
.BR mi_copyout_alloc (9),
.BR mi_copy_set_rval (9),
.BR mi_copy_state (9),
.BR MI_COPY_CASE (9),
.BR mpscompat (9),
.BR aixcompat (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mi_copy_done ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR mi_copy_done ()
is
compatible with
.IR MPS \(rg,
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR MacOT \(rg,
and
.IR Solaris \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR mi_copy_done ()
is an
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The more common message utility functions
should be used in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_copy_done ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR MPS \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR MPS \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
differ from that of
.IR MPS \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_copy_done ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR MPS \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR mi_copy_done ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR mpscompat (9),
.BR aixcompat (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR MPS \(rg
DDI documentation,
.IR MacOT \(rg
DDI documentation,
.[
macotr
.]
.[
macspg
.]
.IR AIX \(rg
documentation.
.[
aixcpc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR mi_copy_done ()
first appeared in
.IR MPS \(rg.
.BR mi_copy_done ()
is a
Mentat, Inc. function that goes all the way back to the
.RI pre- OSF/1
.I Mentat
implementations.
.BR mi_copy_done ()
appears in
.IR MacOT \(rg
.[
macspg
.]
and
.IR AIX \(rg.
.[
aixcpc
.]
An undocumented version of
.BR mi_copy_done ()
appears in
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
