'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mi_strlog.9.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:42 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:42 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mi_strlog.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:42  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MI_STRLOG 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mi_strlog
\- generate a \fISTREAMS\fR log message
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _MPS_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mpsddi.h>
.HP
.BI "int mi_strlog(queue_t *" q ", char " level ", ushort " flags ", char *" fmt ", " ... ");
.HP
.BI "int mi_vstrlog(queue_t *" q ", char " level ", ushort " flags ", char *" fmt ", va_list " args ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
specifies the read queue associated with the driver or module instance.
.PD 0
.TP
.I level
specifies the priority level.
.TP
.I flags
log flags specifying the severity and options associated with the
.I STREAMS
log.
.TP
.I fmt
provides the
.BR printf (3)-style
format string.
.TP
.I ...
provides the arguments for the
.BR printf (3)-style
format string for
.BR mi_strlog ().
.TP
.I args
provides the arguments for the
.BR printf (3)-style
format string for
.BR mi_vstrlog ().
.PD
.PP
.BR mi_vstrlog ()
is a
.B va_list
version of
.BR mi_strlog ().
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
DDI.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mi_strlog ()
is an
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
interface to the
.I STREAMS
.BR log (4)
error and trace logger,
see
.BR strlog (9).
The
.I q
argument, when
.RB non- NULL ,
is used to look up the module identifier which is passed to
.BR vstrlog (9)
in the
.I mid
argument.
The
.I sid
argument passed to
.BR vstrlog (9)
is always zero
.RB ( 0 )
for modules; but, see
.RI \(lq COMPATIBILITY \(rq,
below for a discussion on drivers.
The remaining arguments,
.IR level ,
.IR flags ,
.IR fmt ,
and
.IR args ,
are passed without modification to
.BR vstrlog (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Although on some platforms
.BR mi_strlog ()
might support more format strings than are supported by
.BR strlog (9),
this is not the case for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
Therefore, for a module,
.BR mi_strlog ()
is roughly equivalent to
.BI strlog( q->q_qinfo->qi_minfo->mi_idnum ", 0, " level ", " flags ", " fmt ", " ... ").
In fact, a macro definition to that effect could be better in some
circumstances.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR mi_strlog ()
succeeds, it returns 
.BR true  " (1);
when it fails, it returns
.BR false " (0).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR mi_strlog ()
fails under the same circumstances as
.BR strlog (9)
(when the message has not been seen by all the readers).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mi_strlog ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and
interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR mi_strlog ()
is MP-safe, however, see
.BR strlog (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mi_strlog ()
is an
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
function:
.BR _MPS_SOURCE ,
.B _AIX_SOURCE
or
.B _MAC_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
must also have been compiled with
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS_MODULE ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX_MODULE ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
Some implementation of
.BR mi_strlog (9)
perform complete formatting of the buffer and then pass the formatted output
buffer to
.BR strlog (9).
The purpose of this, I suppose, is that
.BR mi_iprintf ()
supports some
.BR printf (9)
format strings that are not supported traditionally by
.BR strlog (9).
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
however, supports all format strings and neither needs to have the buffer
preformatted, nor would it be very efficient.
.BR mi_strlog (9)
on
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
therefore, passes the format string and arguments to
.BR vstrlog (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mpscompat (9),
.BR aixcompat (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mi_strlog ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR mi_strlog ()
is
compatible with
.IR MPS \(rg,
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR MacOT \(rg,
and
.IR Solaris \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The original MPS\(rg function always substituted the module id number,
.IR q->q_qinfo->q_minfo->mi_idnum ,
for
.BR mid ,
when the queue pointer,
.BR q ,
was non-\fBNULL\fP;
and always substituted zero (0) for
.BR sid .
When the queue pointer,
.BR q ,
was
.BR NULL ,
zero (0) was substituted for both
.BR mid " and " sid .
.IP ""
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
retains the null queue pointer,
.BR q ,
behaviour; however, it should be pointed out that a
.BR strlog (9)
entry with an
.BR mid " and " sid
of zero is rather useless.  In fact, in previous versions of
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
passing a null queue pointer,
.BR q ,
would panic the kernel (and nobody complained).
.IP ""
When the queue pointer,
.BR q ,
is non-\fBNULL\fP,
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
has the same behavior as described for modules.  However, when the queue
pointer,
.BR q ,
corresponds to a driver,
.BR mi_strlog ()
will additionally provide the minor device number asssigned to the Stream
belonging to
.B q
to the
.B sid
argument to
.BR strlog (9).
.IP ""
Accomplishing this additional functionality requires that any queue pointer,
.BR q ,
passed to
.BR mi_strlog ()
must also have been opened with one of the
.BR mi_open_comm (9)
family of functions; otherwise, the values of the
.BR mid " and " sid
may be undefined, and the kernel may panic.
.IP \(em
See
.BR strlog (9)
for a detailed discussion on supported conversion specifiers.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_strlog ()
is an
.IR MPS \(rg-specific
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The more common
.BR strlog (9)
function should be used in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_strlog ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR MPS \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR MPS \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
.]
differ from that of
.IR MPS \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_strlog ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR MPS \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR mi_strlog ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR mpscompat (9),
.BR aixcompat (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR MPS \(rg
DDI documentation,
.IR MacOT \(rg
DDI documentation,
.[
macotr
.]
.[
macspg
.]
.IR AIX \(rg
documentation.
.[
aixcpc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR mi_strlog ()
first appeared in
.IR MPS \(rg.
.BR mi_strlog ()
is a
Mentat, Inc. function that goes all the way back to the
.RI pre- OSF/1
.I Mentat
implementations.
.BR mi_strlog ()
appears in
.IR MacOT \(rg
.[
macspg
.]
and
.IR AIX \(rg.
.[
aixcpc
.]
An undocumented version of
.BR mi_strlog ()
appears in
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
