'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man9/mi_timer_requeue.9.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MI_TIMER_REQUEUE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mi_timer_requeue
\- requeue a \fBM_PCSIG\fR(9) \fISTREAMS\fR timer message
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _MPS_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mpsddi.h>
.HP
.BI "int mi_timer_requeue(mblk_t *" mp );
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/sunddi.h>
.HP
.BI "int mi_timer_requeue(mblk_t *" mp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I mp
a pointer to the
.BR M_PCSIG (9)
message block that was allocated with
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9).
This message block can also contain aditional user data.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR OpenSS7 -specific
DDI.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mi_timer_valid (9)
can only be called once for any given message that was dequeued from a
.I STREAMS
message queue.
Timer messages can always be requeued before
.BR mi_timer_valid (9)
is called; however, in some situations it would be convenient to requeue a timer message for later
processing
.I after
.BR mi_timer_valid (9)
was called.  This would result in
.BR mi_timer_valid (9)
being called twice for the same message.
.PP
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
resets the state of the timer message to a state for which
.BR mi_timer_valid (9)
can be called again on the timer.
If this results in a queuable message,
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
returns true (1), indicating that the timer message should be requeued.
If this results in a displosed message,
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
returns false (0), indicating that the timer message should neither be freed nor requeued.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
is used in circumstances where the caller desires to requeue a timer message that has already been
passed to
.BR mi_timer_valid (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
returns true (1) when the message may be requeued, and false (0) when the reference to the timer
message must simply be dropped (neither freed nor requeued).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
is always successful.  If pass
.B NULL
or invalid pointers a arguments, or pointers to invalid structure, the kernel may become
destabilized and a kernel panic may ensue.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
can be called from any context, however, it is intended to be called from within a
.I STREAMS
driver or module
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure, or
.IR qi_qopen (9)
or
.IR qi_qclose (9)
routine.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
is MP-safe.  It uses atomic exchanges to guarantee atomicity of timer state.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
is an
.IR OpenSS7 -specific
function with
.IR MacOT \(rg
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
variants:
.BR _MPS_SOURCE ,
.B _SUN_SOURCE
or
.B _MAC_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
must also have been compiled with
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS_MODULE ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN_MODULE ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
If the timer is found to be idle (its normal state immediately following a call to
.BR mi_timer_valid (9)
that returns true), it is set back to expired and the message type set to
.BR M_SIG (9).
For other state, 
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
is equivalent to a call to
.BR mi_timer_valid (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mi_timer_valid (9),
.BR mi_timer_move (9),
.BR os7compat (9),
.BR mpscompat (9),
.BR aixcompat (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
is
compatible with
.IR MPS \(rg,
.IR MacOT \(rg,
and
.IR Solaris \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
is an
.IR OpenSS7 -specific
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The more common
.BR timeout (9)
function should be used in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR OpenSS7
for the purpose of porting
.IR OpenSS7
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
.]
differ from that of
.IR OpenSS7 ,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR OpenSS7
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR os7compat (9),
.BR mpscompat (9),
.BR suncompat (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR MPS \(rg
DDI documentation,
.IR MacOT \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
macotr
.]
.[
macspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR mi_timer_move (9)
first appeared in
.IR MPS \(rg.
.BR mi_timer_move (9)
is a
Mentat, Inc. function that goes all the way back to the
.RI pre- OSF/1
.I Mentat
implementations.
.BR mi_timer_move (9)
appears in
.IR MacOT \(rg.
.[
macspg
.]
An undocumented version of
.BR mi_timer_move (9)
appears in
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.BR mi_timer_requeue ()
is an
.I OpenSS7
embelishment to the
.BR mi_timer_move (9)
utility, that first appeared in
.BR strcompat-0.9.2.6 .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
