'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man9/mi_timer_ticks.9.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MI_TIMER_TICKS 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mi_timer_ticks
\- schedule a \fBM_PCSIG\fR(9) \fISTREAMS\fR timer message for a future time
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _MPS_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mpsddi.h>
.HP
.BI "void mi_timer_ticks(mblk_t *" mp ", clock_t " ticks );
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/sunddi.h>
.HP
.BI "void mi_timer_ticks(mblk_t *" mp ", clock_t " ticks );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fBticks\fP\(em'u
.I mp
a pointer to the
.BR M_PCSIG (9)
message block that was allocated with
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9).
This message block can also contain aditional user data.
.TP
.I ticks
the duration, in ticks, before timer expiry.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR OpenSS7 -specific
DDI.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
will schedule the
.I mp
message pointer (which must be created using
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9))
to be placed on the target
.I STREAMS
queue at the specified future time.
.BR mi_timer_valid (9)
must be used in the target queue put or service procedure whenever a
.BR M_PCSIG (9)
message is dequeued.
.PP
If the
.BR M_PCSIG (9)
message block is freshly allocated with
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9)
then
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
schedules a
.BR timeout (9)
that, upon expiry, will place the message block the target queue.
.PP
If the message block already has a running timer associated with it,
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
will cancel the previous
.BR timeout (9)
and reschedule the timer.  This occurs even if the
.BR timeout (9)
has just expired and the message block has already been placed on the target queue.  In this case
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
marks the message block for rescheduling that will be performed when the message is dequeued and
examined with
.BR mi_timer_valid (9)
the
.BR timeout (9)
will be rescheduled.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
is used instead of
.BR mi_timer (9)
when the timeout duration is immediately available in clock ticks instead of milliseconds.  See
.BR mi_timer (9)
for additional usage information.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
always succeeds.  If
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
is passed a
.B NULL
or invalid message pointer, or a pointer that points to an invalid structure, the kernel may
destabilize and a kernel panic may ensue.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
For examples, see
.BR mi_timer (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
must not be called from a priority level higher than a timeout.  On
.B Linux
this means that
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
must not be called from an interrupt service routine.  To place the call at the same priority level,
schedule a tasklet to make the call.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.  When using the functions in the proscribed
fashion, the called need not guarantee exclusive access to the passed in message block or queue.
See
.BR mi_timer (9)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
is an
.IR OpenSS7 -specific
function with
.IR MacOT \(rg
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
variants:
.BR _MPS_SOURCE ,
.B _SUN_SOURCE
or
.B _MAC_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
must also have been compiled with
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MPS_MODULE ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN_MODULE ,
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_MAC_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
Some versions of
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
place the message block onto the target queue, bypassing the queue's put procedure.  These variants
only work for queues that have service procedures.
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
also uses
.BR putq (9)
to place the message block on the target queue, thus the queue requires a service procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mi_timer (9),
.BR mi_timer_alloc (9),
.BR mi_timer_cancel (9),
.BR mi_timer_free (9),
.BR mi_timer_valid (9),
.BR mpscompat (9),
.BR suncompat (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
is
compatible with
.IR MPS \(rg,
.IR MacOT \(rg,
and
.IR Solaris \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
is an
.IR OpenSS7 -specific
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The more common
.BR timeout (9)
function should be used in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR OpenSS7
for the purpose of porting
.IR OpenSS7
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
.]
differ from that of
.IR OpenSS7 ,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR OpenSS7
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR os7compat (9),
.BR mpscompat (9),
.BR suncompat (9),
.BR maccompat (9),
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR MPS \(rg
DDI documentation,
.IR MacOT \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
macotr
.]
.[
macspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR mi_timer (9)
first appeared in
.IR MPS \(rg.
.BR mi_timer (9)
is a
Mentat, Inc. function that goes all the way back to the
.RI pre- OSF/1
.I Mentat
implementations.
.BR mi_timer (9)
appears in
.IR MacOT \(rg.
.[
macspg
.]
An undocumented version of
.BR mi_timer (9)
appears in
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.BR mi_timer_ticks ()
is an
.I OpenSS7
embelishment to the
.BR mi_timer (9)
utility, that first appeared in
.BR strcompat-0.9.2.6 .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
