'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: osfcompat.9.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:38:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:38:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: osfcompat.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:38:50  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH OSFCOMPAT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B osfcompat
\- OSF/1 \fISTREAMS\fR Compatibility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _OSF_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides a compatibility module,
.BR streams-osfcompat.o ,
that provides compatibility functions that smooth porting of drivers from the
.I Mac OpenTransport 1.5r2
.I STREAMS
environment to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
The functions provided by this compatibility module are described here.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Many of the functions that are provided by
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
are also provided by the core
.B streams.o
kernel module of
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
Other
.IR OSF/1 \(rg-specific
functions are provided by the
.B streams-osfcompat.o
compatibility kernel module.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Core Functions"
.PP
Functions that are already available in
.B Linux Fast STREAMS
are as follows:
.HP
.BR adjmsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Removes the specified number of bytes from a message.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR allocb (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocates a message block.
.HP
.BR backq (9)\ \-\ \c
Gets a pointer to the previous queue.
.HP
.BR bcanput (9)\ \-\ \c
Tests for flow control in a specified priority band.
.HP
.BR bcmp (9)\ \-\ \c
Compares two byte strings.
.HP
.BR bcopy (9)\ \-\ \c
Copies a series of bytes with a specified limit.
.HP
.BR bzero (9)\ \-\ \c
Zeros a block of memory.
.HP
.BR bufcall (9)\ \-\ \c
Gets a buffer when allocb fails.
.HP
.BR canput (9)\ \-\ \c
Tests for room in a message queue.
.HP
.BR copyb (9)\ \-\ \c
Copies a message block.
.HP
.BR copyin (9)\ \-\ \c
Copies data from a user address space to a kernel address space.
.HP
.BR copyout (9)\ \-\ \c
Copies data from a kernel address space to a user address space.
.HP
.BR copymsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Copies a message to a new message.
.HP
.BR datamsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Tests whether a message is a data message.
.HP
.BR dupb (9)\ \-\ \c
Duplicates a message block descriptor.
.HP
.BR dupmsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Duplicates a message.
.HP
.BR enableok (9)\ \-\ \c
Enables a queue for service.
.HP
.BR esballoc (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocates a message block with a shared buffer.
.HP
.BR flushband (9)\ \-\ \c
Flushes messages for a specified priority band.
.HP
.BR flushq (9)\ \-\ \c
Removes a message from a queue.
.HP
.BR freeb (9)\ \-\ \c
Frees a message block.
.HP
.BR freemsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Frees all message blocks in a message.
.HP
.BR getq (9)\ \-\ \c
Gets a message from the front of the queue.
.HP
.BR insq (9)\ \-\ \c
Inserts a STREAMS message into a queue.
.HP
.BR linkb (9)\ \-\ \c
Concatenates two message blocks.
.HP
.BR major (9)\ \-\ \c
Returns the device major number.
.HP
.BR makedev (9)\ \-\ \c
Returns a dev_t.
.HP
.BR minor (9)\ \-\ \c
Returns the device minor number.
.HP
.BR msgdsize (9)\ \-\ \c
Returns the number of bytes in a message.
.HP
.BR noenable (9)\ \-\ \c
Prevents a queue from being scheduled.
.HP
.BR OTHERQ (9)\ \-\ \c
Gets a pointer to a module's other queue.
.HP
.BR pullupmsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Concatenates bytes in a message.
.HP
.BR putbq (9)\ \-\ \c
Places a message at the head of a queue.
.HP
.BR putctl (9)\ \-\ \c
Puts a control message on a queue.
.HP
.BR putctl1 (9)\ \-\ \c
Puts a control message on a queue.
.HP
.BR putnext (9)\ \-\ \c
Sends a message to the next module in the stream.
.HP
.BR putq (9)\ \-\ \c
Puts a message on a queue.
.HP
.BR qenable (9)\ \-\ \c
Enables a queue.
.HP
.BR qreply (9)\ \-\ \c
Sends a message in the reverse direction.
.HP
.BR qsize (9)\ \-\ \c
Finds the number of messages on a queue.
.HP
.BR RD (9)\ \-\ \c
Gets a pointer to a module's read queue.
.HP
.BR rmalloc (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocates size units from the given resource map.
.HP
.BR rmfree (9)\ \-\ \c
Frees space previously allocated into the specified resource map.
.HP
.BR rmget (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocates size units from the given resource map.
.HP
.BR rminit (9)\ \-\ \c
Initializes a resource map.
.HP
.BR rmvb (9)\ \-\ \c
Removes a message block from a message block.
.HP
.BR rmvq (9)\ \-\ \c
Removes a message block from a queue.
.HP
.BR sleep (9)\ \-\ \c
Puts a calling process to sleep.
.HP
.BR spl (9)\ \-\ \c
Sets the processor priority to mask different levels of interrupts.
.HP
.BR strlog (9)\ \-\ \c
Submits messages for logging.
.HP
.BR strqget (9)\ \-\ \c
Gets information about a queue.
.HP
.BR strqset (9)\ \-\ \c
Changes information about a queue.
.HP
.BR testb (9)\ \-\ \c
Checks for an available buffer.
.HP
.BR timeout (9)\ \-\ \c
Initializes a callout queue element.
.HP
.BR uiomove (9)\ \-\ \c
Moves data between user and system virtual space.
.HP
.BR unbufcall (9)\ \-\ \c
Cancels a pending bufcall request.
.HP
.BR unlinkb (9)\ \-\ \c
Removes a message block from the head of a message.
.HP
.BR untimeout (9)\ \-\ \c
Removes the scheduled interface from the callout queues.
.HP
.BR vtop (9)\ \-\ \c
Converts any virtual address to a physical address.
.HP
.BR wakeup (9)\ \-\ \c
Wakes up all processes sleeping on a specified address.
.HP
.BR WR (9)\ \-\ \c
Gets a pointer to this module's write queue.
.PD
.\"
.SS "Specific Functions"
.PP
Functions that are available in the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
compatibility module,
.BR streams-osfcompat.o ,
are as follows:
.HP
.BR DELAY (9)\ \-\ \c
Delays the calling interface a specified number of microseconds.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR lbolt (9)\ \-\ \c
Return current value of tick clock.
.HP
.BR MALLOC (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocates a variable-size section of kernel virtual memory.
.HP
.BR printf (9)\ \-\ \c
Prints text to the console and the error logger.
.HP
.BR puthere (9)\ \-\ \c
Equivalent of
.BR put (9).
.HP
.BR streams_close_comm (9)\ \-\ \c
Equivalent of
.BR mi_close_comm (9).
.HP
.BR streams_open_comm (9)\ \-\ \c
Equivalent of
.BR mi_open_comm (9).
.HP
.BR streams_open_ocomm (9)\ \-\ \c
Equivalent of
.BR mi_open_comm (9).
.HP
.BR time (9)\ \-\ \c
Return the time of day.
.HP
.BR uprintf (9)\ \-\ \c
A nonsleeping kernel printf function.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SS "\fISTREAMS\fP Configuration and Registration Functions"
.PP
Module and driver configuration functions that are available in the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
compatibility module,
.IR streams-osfcompat ,
are as follows:
.HP
.BR strmod_add (9)\ \- \c
Install a \fISTREAMS\fR module or driver.
.HP
.BR strmod_del (9)\ \- \c
Uninstall a \fISTREAMS\fR module or driver.
.\"
.\".SS "Transport Functions"
.\".PP
.\".PD 0
.\".PD
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
For usage an example of the various functions, see the individual manual pages.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH RETURN
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH ERRORS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
These functions can be executed from various contexts as described in each separate manual page.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
Most of these functions are MP-safe; however,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
does not provide many of the
.I SVR 4.2 MP
functions, such as:
.HP
.BR bcanputnext (9)\ \-\ \c
test flow control on a \fISTREAMS\fP message queue
.PD 0
.HP
.BR canputnext (9)\ \-\ \c
test flow control on a \fISTREAMS\fP message queue
.HP
.BR esbbcall (9)\ \-\ \c
install a buffer callback for an extended \fISTREAMS\fR message block
.HP
.BR freezestr (9)\ \-\ \c
freeze the state of a stream queue
.HP
.BR msgpullup (9)\ \-\ \c
pull up bytes in a \fISTREAMS\fP message
.HP
.BR put (9)\ \-\ \c
invoke the put procedure for a \fISTREAMS\fP module or driver with a \fISTREAMS\fP message
.HP
.BR putnextctl1 (9)\ \-\ \c
put a 1 byte control message on the downstream \fISTREAMS\fR message queue
.HP
.BR putnextctl (9)\ \-\ \c
put a control message on the downstream \fISTREAMS\fR message queue
.HP
.BR qprocsoff (9)\ \-\ \c
disables \fISTREAMS\fR message queue processing for multi-processing
.HP
.BR qprocson (9)\ \-\ \c
enables a \fISTREAMS\fR message queue for multi-processing
.HP
.BR SAMESTR (9)\ \-\ \c
test for \fISTREAMS\fR pipe or fifo
.HP
.BR unfreezestr (9)\ \-\ \c
thaw the state of a stream queue
.PD
.PP
Lack of these functions can make Multiprocessor (MP) support problematic.
Ported
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers should always be loaded under
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
with multiprocessing disabled for safety.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
These are
.IR OSF/1 \(rg-specific
functions:
.B _OSF_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose these symbols.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_OSF
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_OSF_MODULE
defined.
When compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_OSF
defined,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
compatibility will become part of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.I streams
kernel module.
When compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_OSF_MODULE
defined,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
compatibility will be placed in a separate
.I streams-aixcompat
kernel module that will demand load when any
.I STREAMS
driver or module that uses the
.IR OSF/1 \(rg-specific
functions loads.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
Core functions are implemented within the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
framework.
.IR OSF/1 \(rg-specific
functions are implemented as described in the separate manual pages describing each facility.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IOCTLS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH SYSCTLS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
Core functions:
.BR adjmsg (9),
.BR allocb (9),
.BR backq (9),
.BR bcanput (9),
.BR bcmp (9),
.BR bcopy (9),
.BR bzero (9),
.BR bufcall (9),
.BR canput (9),
.BR copyb (9),
.BR copyin (9),
.BR copyout (9),
.BR copymsg (9),
.BR datamsg (9),
.BR dupb (9),
.BR dupmsg (9),
.BR enableok (9),
.BR esballoc (9),
.BR flushband (9),
.BR flushq (9),
.BR freeb (9),
.BR freemsg (9),
.BR getq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR linkb (9),
.BR major (9),
.BR makedev (9),
.BR minor (9),
.BR msgdsize (9),
.BR noenable (9),
.BR OTHERQ (9),
.BR pullupmsg (9),
.BR putbq (9),
.BR putctl (9),
.BR putctl1 (9),
.BR putnext (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR qenable (9),
.BR qreply (9),
.BR qsize (9),
.BR RD (9),
.BR rmalloc (9),
.BR rmfree (9),
.BR rmget (9),
.BR rminit (9),
.BR rmvb (9),
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR sleep (9),
.BR spl (9),
.BR strlog (9),
.BR strqget (9),
.BR strqset (9),
.BR testb (9),
.BR timeout (9),
.BR uiomove (9),
.BR unbufcall (9),
.BR unlinkb (9),
.BR untimeout (9),
.BR vtop (9),
.BR wakeup (9),
.BR WR (9).
.PP
Compatibility functions:
.BR DELAY (9),
.BR lbolt (9),
.BR MALLOC (9),
.BR printf (9),
.BR puthere (9),
.BR streams_close_comm (9),
.BR streams_open_comm (9),
.BR streams_open_ocomm (9),
.BR time (9),
.BR uprintf (9).
.PP
Configuration and Registration functions:
.BR strmod_add (9),
.BR strmod_del (9).
.\".PP
.\"Transport functions:
.PP
General:
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
compatibility suite has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
These functions are compatible with
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
These are
.IR OSF/1 \(rg-specific
functions and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The more common
.I SVR 4.2 MP
functions should be used in their stead.
.IP \(em
These functions
are provided for source level compatibility with
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
differ from that of
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
These functions
only provide functionality comparable to
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
these functions
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
osfdoc
.]
.[
osfspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Most of these functions
first appeared in
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.
Functions with name starting with
.I mi_
are probably Mentat, Inc. functions that goe all the way back to the
.RI pre- OSF/1
.I Mentat
implementations.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
