'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: qattach.9.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:44 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:44 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: qattach.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:44  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH QATTACH 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B qattach
\- attach a module onto a \fISTREAMS\fR file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strsubr.h>
.HP
.BI "int qattach(stdata_t *" sd ", struct fmodsw *" fmod ", dev_t *" devp ", int " oflag ", int " sflag ", cred_t *" crp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I sd
the stream head to which to attach a newly created queue pair.
.PD 0
.TP
.I fmod
a pointer to the
.BR cdevsw (9)
or
.BR fmodsw (9)
structure for the associated driver or module.
.TP
.I devp
a pointer to the device number.
.TP
.I oflag
the open flags.
.TP
.I sflag
stream flags.
.TP
.I crp
a pointer to the credentials of the opening user.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR qattach ()
is called when the
.B I_PUSH
command is issued to a
.IR STREAMS (4)
character special file.  See
.BR streamio (7)
for more information on
.BR I_PUSH .
.PP
.BR qattach ()
is responsible for allocating a queue pair with
.BR allocq (9),
linking the queues into the stream, and calling the module's
.IR qi_qopen (9)
routine.
When
.BR qattach ()
is called to attach (push) a module,
.I sflag
must be
.BR MODOPEN
and a queue pair must have already been allocated for the stream head and for
the driver.
.PP
.BR qattach ()
is also responsible for allocating a driver queue pair, attaching it to the
stream head and calling the driver's
.IR qi_qopen (9)
procedure.
When
.BR qattach ()
is called to attach and open a driver,
.I sflag
must be either
.BR DRVOPEN " or " CLONEOPEN .
.PP
.BR qattach ()
is also used to allocate the stream head queue pair, attaching it to the stream
head and calling the stream head queue pair's
.IR qi_qopen (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR qattach ()
is not intended to be called by
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.
.PP
.BR qattach ()
should only be called from the
.BR I_PUSH (7)
or
.BR qdetach (9)
procedure or a Stream head
.BR str_open (9)
open or
.BR str_close (9)
close procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR qattach ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR qattach ()
returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR qattach ()
fails, it returns a negative error number as follows:
.TP \w'[\fBENOMEM\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ EIO ]
there is no queue associated with the stream
.IR sd .
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
could not allocate a queue pair with
.BR qalloc (9).
.PP
In addition, any error returned by the module's
.IR qi_qopen (9)
function can be returned by
.BR qattach ().
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR qattach ()
should only be called from blockable user process context or from within a
.IR qi_qopen (9)
or
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR qattach ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR qattach ()
is an internal
.I STREAMS
function which was not intended to be called by
the
.I STREAMS
driver or module writer.
.BR qattach ()
is not part of the
.I DDI/DKI
.[
usldk
.]
and should not be called by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.
.BR qattach ()
is highly implementation dependent in function and prototype.  Use of this
function by a driver or module will guarantee that it is not portable even between
releases of
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR qdetach (9),
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.BR open (2s),
.BR close (2s),
.BR streamio (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR qattach ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR qattach ()
is compatible with descriptions of
.I STREAMS
internals for
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
magic
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.I SVR 4.2 MP
.[
uslspg
.]
and systems based on
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4spg
.]
do not export this function.
.IP \(em
Source and Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR qattach ()
is compliant with the description of the internal
.BR qattach ()
function of
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.[
magic
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR qattach ()
first appeared (as an internal function) in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
