'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: qdelete.9.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:44 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:44 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: qdelete.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:44  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH QDELETE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B qdelete
\- delete a queue pair from a Stream
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "void qdelete(queue_t *" q );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue pair to delete.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
half-deletes the queue pair identified by
.I q
from the Stream to which it belongs.  The
.I q->q_next
pointers of the queue pair to be deleted,
.IR q ,
are adjusted, but the Stream remains unaffected.
.BR qprocsoff (9)
must be called before calling
.BR qdelete ()
to properly remove the queue pair from the Stream.
.BR qprocsoff (9)
is responsible for adjusting the
.I q_next
pointer of the Stream head write queue and the read queue at the top of the module stack or driver
to bypass the module.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR qdelete()
is not intended to be called by
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.
.PP
.BR qdelete()
should only be called from the
.BR qattach (9)
or
.BR qdetach (9)
procedure or a Stream head
.BR str_open (9)
open or
.BR str_close (9)
close procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
returns void.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
is always successful.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR qdelete()
must only be called at process context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR qdelete()
should only be called from the
.BR qattach (9)
or
.BR qdetach (9)
procedure or a Stream head
.BR str_open (9)
open or
.BR str_close (9)
close procedure.
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
takes a plumbing write lock on the Stream head before nulling the
.I q_next
pointers of the queue pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The queue pair,
.IR q ,
should have been already removed from data flow in the Stream with
.BR qprocsoff (9)
(but checks again anyway).
.PP
.I q
must be a valid pointer or bad things will happen.
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
is an internal
.I STREAMS
function which was not intended to be called by
the
.I STREAMS
driver or module writer.
.BR qdelete ()
is not part of the DDI/DKI and should not be called by portable programs.
.BR qdelete ()
is highly implementation dependent in function and prototype.  Use of this
function by a driver or module will guarantee that it is not portable even between
releases of
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The functions does not do gets and puts on the Stream head when adding or removing queue pairs from
the Stream because the Stream head reference count falling to zero is used to deallocate thte Stream
head queue pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR qprocsoff (9),
.BR qattach (9),
.BR qdetach (9),
.BR str_open (9),
.BR str_close (9),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
is compatible with descriptions of
.I STREAMS
internals for
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
magic
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR qdelete ()
is roughly compatible with the internal operations described for
.IR "SVR 4 STREAMS"
in
.RI \(lq "The Magic Garden Explained" \(rq.
.[
magic
.]
.IP ""
.BR qdelete ()
is an internal function that will not be called by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.
.IP \(em
.I SVR 4.2 MP
and systems based on
.I SVR 4
do not export this function.
.IP \(em
Source and Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
is consistent with the description of the internal
.BR qdetach (9)
function of
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
as described in
.IR "\*(lqThe Magic Garden\*(rq" .
.[
magic
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
is new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
