'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man9/qenable.9.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH QENABLE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B qenable
\- schedules a \fISTREAMS\fR message queue service procedure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "void qenable(queue_t *" q );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I q
the queue to enable.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR qenable ()
schedules the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure of the queue pointed to by
.I q
to be run by
.BR runqueues (9).
If the queue pointed to by
.I q
has been disabled with a call to
.BR noenable (9),
then
.BR qenable ()
will still succeed in enabling the queue.
.PP
.BR qenable ()
is normally called to invoke the execution of
.IR q 's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR qenable ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR qenable ()
fails, it fails silently.
.BR qenable ()
fails to enable the queue when the queue does not have a
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure.  Otherwise,
.BR qenable ()
is always successful.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR qenable ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR qenable ()
is MP-safe.
.PP
If the queue was not already enabled
.RI ( qi_srvp (9)
procedure already scheduled to run) on a different CPU,
.BR qenable ()
schedules the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure of the queue,
.IR q ,
using
.BR qschedule (9)
on the current CPU.  In this case, the queue
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure for the queue,
.IR q ,
will not execute until after
.BR qenable ()
returns and the function that called
.BR qenable ()
returns or encounters a preemption point.
However, if the queue is already scheduled by another processor  and
.BR qenable ()
was not called from a context synchronous with the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure, another
processor may run the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure before
.BR qenable ()
returns.
.PP
Therefore,
.BR qenable ()
should be called with
.I STREAMS
synchronization in effect, or hold the necessary private locks across the
call to
.BR qenable (),
if it is ncessary to synchronize the call to
.BR qenable ()
with execution of the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR qenable ()
has no effect if the queue has already been enabled due to internal
.I STREAMS
scheduler actions, or a previous call to
.BR qenable ()
that has not yet completed service.
.PP
Enabling a queue from within its own
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure will not reschedule the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR runqueues (9),
.BR noenable (9),
.IR qi_srvp (9),
.BR qschedule (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR enableok (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR qenable ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR qenable ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR qenable ()
only schedules the queue for later service.
.BR qenable ()
schedules a queue regardless of whether the
.B QNOENB
flag is set, or whether
.BR noenable (9)
has been called for the queue,
For a version of this function that considers the
.B QNOENB
flag, see
.BR enableq (9).
Even as far back as
.IR "SVR 3.1" ,
.[
svr3spg
.]
the
.BR noenable (9),
.BR enableok (9)
and
.BR canenable (9)
functions affecting the
.B QNOENB
flag have only affected
.BR putq (9)
scheduling the queue,
.IR q .
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will expect that
.BR qenable ()
will enable a queue regardless of the state of the
.B QNOENB
flag and the calling of
.BR noenable (9).
.IP \(em
.BR qenable ()
may be called on a stream frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
.[
suxspg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
do not permit
.BR qenable ()
to be called on a stream frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should not call
.BR qenable ()
on a stream frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.IP \(em
.BR qenable ()
enables the queue regardless of the settings of other flags.
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documentation
explicitly state that
.BR qenable ()
schedules the queue regardless of whether
.BR noenable (9)
was invoked on the queue previously.
.[
irixdoc
.]
.[
soldoc
.]
.[
suxdoc
.]
.[
uw7doc
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
documentation
does not say that
.BR noenable (9)
defeats
.BR qenable ()
either.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.[
osfdoc
.]
.[
uxpdoc
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not rely on
.BR qenable ()
to enable a stream that is disabled previously with
.BR noenable (9);
instead, it will reenable the stream with
.BR enableok (9)
before calling
.BR qenable ().
See
.RI \*(lq EXAMPLES \*(rq
under
.BR enableok (9)
for an example.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCES
.PP
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR qenable ()
appears as part of
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR qenable ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
The original versions of
.BR qenable ()
returned
.B int
instead of
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
