'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man9/quntimeout.9.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH QUNTIMEOUT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B quntimeout
\- stop a timer
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi>
.br
.B #include <sys/sunddi.h>
.HP
.BI "clock_t quntimeout(queue_t *" q ", timeout_id_t " toid );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue with which the original call to
.BR qtimeout (9)
was associated.
.TP
.I toid
the non-zero timeout call id returned by the associated call to
.BR qtimeout (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
cancels the timeout callback that was initiated using
.BR qtimeout (9).
.I toid
is the timeout callback identifier that was returned from a previous call to
.BR qtimeout (9)
with the queue
.IR q .
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
is typically used to remove outstanding timeout call when a stream is closing
or to cancel protocol timers.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
returns the amount of time left on the timer before the timeout would have
occurred in system ticks.
When the timer was cancelled before expiry, the return value is positive.
When the timer was has already expired, the return value is zero.
When the timer could not be found, the return value is negative.
.PP
The return value should be ignored by portable
programs.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
fails if the buffer callback identified by
.I toid
no longer exists (has executed); or,
.I toid
is invalid.
When
.BR quntimeout ()
fails, it returns minus one (-1).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller of
.BR quntimeout ()
must ensure that the callback function has not returned from running before
calling
.BR quntimeout ().
.PP
Because the module is permitted to unload after calling
.BR quntimeout ()
for all outstanding timer callbacks the call to
.BR quntimeout ()
will not return until either the callback function has completed, or the
callback function has been cancelled.  Therefore the callback function will be
guaranteed not to run once 
.BR quntimeout ()
has returned for all outstanding callbacks.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function:
.B _SUN_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this
symbol.
.PP
.BR untimeout (9)
can be used to cancel a timeout call installed with
.BR qtimeout (9).
.PP
The
.I q
argument to
.BR quntimeout ()
is ignored.
.PP
Because
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
uses object indices to
.BR strevent (9)
structures that expire once the callback function has run, when
.BR untimeout ()
is called, it must be called promptly and should never be called after the callback function has
already completed.  Also, the callback function should remove all global references to
.I toid
so that stale timeout call handles do not exist in the system.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
See
.BR untimeout (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR qtimeout (9),
.BR timeout (9),
.BR untimeout (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
is source-level compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.[
soldoc
.]
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
and
.IR HP-UX \(rg
do not provide this function.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR quntimeout ()
is a 
.IR Solaris \(rg
specific function that first appeared in
.IR Solaris "\(rg 2."
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
