'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH QWRITER 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B qwriter
\- \fISTREAMS\fP mutex upgrade
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/sunddi.h>
.HP
.BI "void qwriter(queue_t *" q ", mblk_t *" mp ", void (*" func ")(queue_t *, mblk_t *), int " perim );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
a pointer to the queue for which to upgrade to writer.
.TP
.I mp
a
.I STREAMS
message to pass to the callback function.
.TP
.I func
a function that will be called when write access has been achieved.
.TP
.I perim
a description of the perimeter.
.I perim
can be either
.BR PERIM_INNER " or " PERIM_OUTER .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR qwriter ()
schedules the call-out function,
.IR func ,
to be executed with the specified queue pair,
.IR q ,
and the passed in message,
.IR mp ,
once the perimeter,
.IR perim ,
can be entered exclusively.
.PP
.I perim
can be one of the following values:
.TP
.B PERIM_INNER
establishes exclusive access to the inner perimeter
for the queue,
.IR q ,
when present.  An inner
perimeter can exist at the queue, the queue pair or the module.
See
.BR mp-streams (9)
for more information.
If an inner perimeter does not exist, the call-out function is still executed,
but synchronization does not occur.
(This has a similar effect to
.BR qprocsoff (9),
although
.BR qprocsoff (9)
is a different mechanism.)
.TP
.B PERIM_OUTER
establishes exclusive access to the outer perimeter
for the module to which
.I q
belongs,
when present.  An outer
perimeter can exist at the module.
See
.BR mp-streams (9)
for more information.
If an outer perimeter does not exist, the call-out function is still executed,
but synchronization does not occur.
(This has a similar effect to
.BR freezestr (9),
although
.BR freezestr (9)
is a different mechanism.)
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR qwriter ()
allows
.RI non- STREAMS
software to safely call
.I STREAMS
utilities.
.RI Non- STREAMS
code can call
.BR qwriter (),
passing it a function and a queue pointer,
.IR q .
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
runs the function as it it were the queue's
.BR qi_putp (9)
procedure.  The function can safely manipulate the queue and access the same
data structure as the queue's
.BR qi_putp (9)
procedure.
.BR qwriter ()
passes
.IR q " and " mp " to " proc .
The caller must pass a valid message block pointer,
.IR mp ,
because
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
uses fields in the message block not visible to the
.I STREAMS
programmer.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR qwriter ()
returns void.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR qwriter ()
always succeeds.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR qwriter ()
can only be called by a 
.IR qi_putp (9)
or 
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure or from a queue callback function (see
.BR qtimeout (9)
or
.BR qbufcall (9)).
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR qwriter ()
is MP-safe and was intended to support MP-safe operation in the SMP
is MP-safe.
.PP
Considerations should be given when writing the call-out function that the
function may execute in parallel with asynchronous entry points, callbacks,
call-outs and interrupt service procedures.
.PP
However, in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
the call-out function is scheduled on the same CPU and the CPU which called
.BR qwriter ().
This means that
.BR qwriter ()
will return before the call-out function executes when called on the ICS.
Also, when called on the ICS, the call-out function will not execute before
the calling function returns or the next preemption point is encountered.
will return before the call-out function executes.  In addition, the call-out
function will not execute before the calling function returns or the next
preemption point is encountered.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR qwriter ()
must only be called from a queue
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure.
.PP
.BR qwriter ()
may return before the call-out function,
.IR func ,
executes, or the call-out function,
.IR func ,
may be executed on the calling thread before
.BR qwriter ()
returns.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
uses
a single mechanism,
.BR __strwrit (),
for supporting all queue writer functions such as
.BR qwriter ()
and
.BR mps_become_writer (9),
and a single mechanism,
.BR __strfunc (),
for supporting all queue put function such as
.BR streams_put (9).
.PP
When called on the ICS, execution of the call-out function is deferrred until
the next run of the
.I STREAMS
scheduler,
.BR strqsched (9),
and the function simply returns.
When called from any other context, synchronization is performed and the call-out function is executed immediately thereafter
and before returning.  See
.BR mp-streams (9)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR qprocson (9),
.BR qprocsoff (9),
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR unfreezestr (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR qwriter ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR qwriter ()
is source level compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
with the following considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR qwriter ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function:
.B _SUN_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this
symbol.
.IP \(em
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
and
.IR LiS ,
do not provide this function.
.IP \(em
.BR qwriter ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The standard
.BR freezestr (9)
and
.BR put (9)
functions should be used in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR qwriter ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR Solaris \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
differ from that of
.IR Solaris \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.ip \(em
.BR qwriter ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR Solaris \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR qwriter ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR qwriter ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg
specific function that first appeared in
.IR Solaris "\(rg 2."
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
