'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man9/register_strlog.9.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH REGISTER_STRLOG 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B register_strlog, vstrlog_t
\- register a new
.I STREAMS
log device
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strlog.h>
.HP
.BI "typedef int (*vstrlog_t)(short, short, char, unsigned short, char *, va_list);
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "vstrlog_t register_strlog(vstrlog_t " newlog );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
arguments are as follows:
.TP
.I newlog
a new logging function to register of type
.BR vstrlog_t .
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
provides the ability for a
.I STREAMS
driver to alter the behaviour of the
.BR strlog (9)
and
.BR vstrlog (9)
.I STREAMS
utilities.
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
registers a new logging function and is used by the
.BR log (4)
driver.
By default,
when the
.BR log (4)
driver is not loaded,
.BR vstrlog_hook ()
is set to
.BR vstrlog_default ()
that simply prints a formatted message to the
.B Linux
kernel system logs ala
.BR printk ().
.BR register_strlog ()
allows the
.BR log (4)
driver to register a full
.I STREAMS
.BR strlog ()
compatible logging function against
.BR vstrlog_hook ().
.BR register_strlog ()
returns the old value of the
.BR vstrlog_hook ()
function pointer that can be used with
.BR register_strlog ()
to replace the old function.
If
.I newlog
is
.BR NULL ,
calls to
.BR strlog ()
and
.BR vstrlog ()
will do nothing and return zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation specific function used by the
.BR log (4)
driver to replace the behaviour of the
.BR strlog (9)
and
.BR vstrlog (9)
.I STREAMS
utilities.
.PP
Any non-portable, specialized log driver that is to be used as a replacement for
.BR log (4)
driver or default function can also use this function to register to the
.B vstrlog_t
hook.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
returns a function pointer to the function that was previously registered against the
.BR strlog (9)
utility.  In the case of the
.BR log (4)
driver, this will be
.BR vstrlog_default .
The return value can be used as the
.I newlog
argument in a subsequent call to
.BR register_strlog ()
to de-register the installed function pointer.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
is always successful.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
is intended to be called from process context in kernel module initialization procedures for the
.BR log (4)
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
is MP-safe.  The
.BR strlog (9),
.BR vstrlog (9),
and
.BR register_strlog ()
functions take read-write locks on a global
.B vstrlog_reg_lock
lock to protect and support
.BR log (4)
driver kernel module unloading.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.SS Example #1 - \fBlog\fP(4) strlog registration
.PP
The following example is taken directly from the
.BR log (4)
driver contained in the
.I src/drivers/log.c
source file in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  static vstrlog_t oldlog = NULL;
 2  
 3  int __init
 4  log_init(void)
 5  {
 6      int err;
 7  
 8      printk(KERN_INFO LOG_BANNER);
 9      log_minfo.mi_idnum = modid;
10      if ((err = register_strdev(&log_cdev, major)) < 0)
11          return (err);
12      if (major == 0 && err > 0)
13          major = err;
14      /* hook into vstrlog */
15      oldlog = register_strlog(&log_vstrlog);
16      return (0);
17  }
\s+2\fP
.fi
.IP "\fBLine 8-13\fR:" \w'\fBLine\ 00-00\fR:\(en'u
The
.BR log (4)
driver first registers with
.I STREAMS
as a
.I STREAMS
driver.
.IP "\fBLine 15\fR:"
The
.BR log (4)
driver then hooks to the
.BR strlog (9)
function with
.BR register_strlog ().
The returned value is save for later de-registration.
.\"
.SS Example #2 - log(4) strlog deregistration
.PP
The following example is taken directly from the
.BR log (4)
driver contained in the
.I src/drivers/log.c
source file in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  void __exit
 2  log_exit(void)
 3  {
 4      /* unhook from vstrlog */
 5      register_strlog(oldlog);
 6      unregister_strdev(&log_cdev, major);
 7  }
\s+2\fP
.fi
.IP "\fBLine 5\fR:" \w'\fBLine\ 00-00\fR:\(en'u
.BR register_strlog ()
is called with the stored value of the previous hook function,
.IR oldlog ,
to de-register the hook function.  This must be performed before the
.BR log (4)
driver is de-registered from
.IR STREAMS .
.IP "\fBLine 6\fR:"
The
.BR log (4)
driver unregisters as a
.I STREAMS
device.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR strlog (9),
.BR strlog (4),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
None.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR register_strlog ()
is new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
