'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH REGISTER_CLONE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B register_clone
\- register a clone minor
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strsubr.h>
.HP
.BI "int register_clone(struct cdevsw *" cdev );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I cdev
a pointer to a character device switch table,
.BR cdevsw (9),
structure describing the
.I STREAMS
driver for which to create a clone device minor.
.PP
All characteristics of the device minor node and associated device driver are inherited from
.IR cdev ,
including the node name.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR register_clone ()
create a new minor device node for the
.BR clone (4)
driver and registers the
.I STREAMS
device specified by
.I cdev
against that device minor using
.BR register_strnod (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
This is probably not the function that your want.  See
.BR register_strdev (9).
.PP
.BR register_clone ()
is called automatically by
.BR register_strdev (9)
to register a new clone device minor
in the
.BR specfs (5)
file system for every
.I STREAMS
device driver registering for an external major character device number.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When successful,
.BR register_clone ()
returns zero
.RB ( 0 );
when it fails, it returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR register_clone ()
fails, it returns a negative error number as follows:
.TP \w'[\fBEWOULDBLOCK\fR]\(en'u
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
memory for the required
.BR devnode (9)
structure could not be allocated.
.PP
In addition,
.BR register_clone ()
can return any error number returned by
.BR register_strnod (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR register_clone ()
is intended to be called in a blockable process context during the loading of a
.I STREAMS
kernel module and as part of the initialization of that kernel module.
It may also be called at blockable process context as part of a
.IR qi_qopen (9)
routine.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR register_clone ()
is MP-safe when called from the proper context.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR register_clone ()
is a convenience function that simply allocates a
.BR devnode (9)
structure, populates it with values from
.IR cdev ,
and then registers the major device number of
.IR cdev
as a minor node of the
.BR clone_dev
.RB ( clone (4)
driver) using
.BR register_strnod (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR register_clone ()
is an internal
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation specific
function that is not intended to be used directly by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.  This is certainly not the utility you need: see
.BR register_strdev (9)
and
.BR register_strnod (9).
.PP
Loadable kernel modules that call
.BR register_clone ()
when loading must call
.BR unregister_clone (9)
before unloading.
.BR unregister_clone (9)
must be called with the same value of
.I cdev
with which the corresponding
.BR register_clone ()
was called.
.PP
Clone minor device nodes registered with
.BR register_clone ()
will appear as a clone minor device node in the device directory
.BR /dev/streams/clone ,
when the
.BR specfs (5)
file system has been mounted on
.BR /dev/streams .
The clone minor device node will be named
.BI /dev/streams/clone/ name\fR,
where
.I name
is the
.I d_name
field of the
.BR cdevsw (9)
structure referenced by
.IR cdev .
.PP
.BR register_clone ()
is an internal
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
function that is provided by the
.BR clone (4)
driver and used by the
.BR register_strdev (9)
function.
.PP
If you use
.BR register_clone ()
from outside of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package, your code may break on the next release.
Do not use
.BR register_clone ():
use
.BR register_strdev (9)
or
.BR register_strnod (9)
instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR register_strdev (9),
.BR register_strnod (9),
.BR unregister_clone (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR register_clone ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR register_clone ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation specific function with support for the mountable
.BR specfs (5)
file system.  Registration of
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules is inherently implementation specific and non-portable.
Different implementations provide different mechanisms.
The
.BR strcompat (5)
package for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides additional mechanisms compatible with other implementations.
See also
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Registration and de-registration of
.I STREAMS
drivers is implementation specific and not subject to standardization.
.BR register_clone ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation specific function.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR register_clone ()
first appeared in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
