'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: SAMESTR.9.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:38:29 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:38:29 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: SAMESTR.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:38:29  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SAMESTR 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B SAMESTR
\- test for \fISTREAMS\fR pipe or fifo
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int SAMESTR(" q );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue to compare against the next queue.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR SAMESTR ()
tests whether the next queue belongs to the same stream as the specified
queue
.IR q .
.BR SAMESTR ()
can be used to detect whether or not
.I q
belongs to a
.BR pipe (4)
or a
.BR fifo (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR SAMESTR ()
is not normally used by drivers or modules.  Although it can be used by a module to detect the midpoint of
a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4)
or
.BR fifo (4),
it is not often done.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR SAMESTR ()
returns true (1) if the next queue from the specified queue,
.IR q->q_next ,
belongs to the same stream (read or write) as the specified queue
.IR q .
In this case, the queue
.I q
is above the midpoint of a
.BR pipe (4)
or
.BR fifo (4).
.PP
.BR SAMESTR ()
returns false (0) if the next queue from the specified queue,
.IR q->q_next ,
belongs to a different stream (read or write) as the specified queue
.IR q .
In this case, the queue
.I q
is above the midpoint of a
.BR pipe (4)
or
.BR fifo (4).
.PP
.BR SAMESTR ()
also returns false (0) if the next queue from the specified queue,
.IR q->q_next ,
is
.BR NULL .
In this case, the queue
.I q
is a stream end (stream head or driver).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR SAMESTR ()
fails, it returns
zero (0).
.BR SAMESTR ()
fails when the queue pointer
.I q->q_next
is
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR SAMESTR ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
call-outs, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.PP
.BR SAMESTR ()
is MP-safe; however,
the caller is responsible for the validity of the reference
.IR q .
References to
.I q
from a procedure, call-out or callback predicated on the queue pair to which
.I q
belongs
are guaranteed valid.
The caller must guarantee validity from call-outs, callbacks, soft interrupts
and interrupt service routines not predicated on the queue pair to which
.I q
belongs.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
If the passed in queue pointer,
.IR q ,
is invalid, the result is undefined.
.PP
If the passed in queue pointer,
.IR q ,
is
.BR NULL ,
a kernel panic may occur.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR RD (9),
.BR WR (9),
.BR OTHER (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR SAMESTR ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR SAMESTR ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4 MP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR SAMESTR ()
is defined for
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7spg
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg.
.[
suxspg
.]
These systems also support
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe "(4) and " fifo (4).
.IP \(em
.BR SAMESTR ()
may be called on a stream frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
.[
suxspg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
do not permit
.BR SAMESTR ()
to be called on a stream frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
This is presumably because
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
allows frozen streams to manipulate the
.I q->q_next
pointers directly.
.IR HP-UX \(rg
on the other hand, does not allow
.I q->q_next
pointers to be manipulated directly and provides the
.BR weldq (9)
function to perform that action.
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should not call
.BR bcanputnext ()
on a stream frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
lists
.BR SAMESTR ()
as a function that can only be passed a queue in the queue pair currently
being synchronized within a module procedure.
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
also lists
.BR SAMESTR ()
as a utility that cannot be called from user functions or
.RI non- STREAMS
code; that is, contexts asynchronous to the Stream containing
.IR q .
.IP ""
.IR HP-UX \(rg
compatible drivers and modules will not call
.BR SAMESTR ()
from outside of a
.BR qinit (9)
routine for the queue pair of
.IR q .
.IP \(em
.BR SAMESTR ()
is not defined for
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixspg
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfspg
.]
.IR UXP/V \(rg.
.[
uxpspg
.]
These systems do not support
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe "(4) and " fifo (4).
.IP \(em
.BR SAMESTR ()
is not very useful on systems that do not support
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4)
or
.BR fifo (4).
.IP \(em
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
supports
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe "(4) and " fifo (4).
.IP \(em
Because the size and members of the
.BR queue (9)
structure vary from implementation to implementation,
binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR SAMESTR ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
