'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man9/str_install_AIX.9.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STR_INSTALL 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B str_install
\- install or uninstall a \fISTREAMS\fP driver or module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _AIX_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/streams.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strconf.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "int str_install(int " cmd ", strconf_t *" conf );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I cmd
specifies the action to perform.
.I cmd
can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP 16
.B STR_LOAD_DEV
add a device
.PD 0
.TP
.B STR_UNLOAD_DEV
remove a device
.TP
.B STR_LOAD_MOD
load a module
.TP
.B STR_UNLOAD_MOD
unload a module
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I conf
a pointer to a
.B strconf_t
structure specifying the characteristics of the driver or module upon which to
perform the action.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I conf
points to a
.B strconf_t
structure contains the following members:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
typedef struct {
        char *sc_name;
        struct streamtab *sc_str;
        int sc_open_stylesc_flags;
        int sc_major;
        int sc_sqlevel;
        caddr_t sc_sqinfo;
} strconf_t;
\s+2\fP
.fi
.TP
.I sc_name
Specifies the name of the driver or module.  For modules, this name is
installed in the
.B fmodsw
table and is used for
.BR I_PUSH
operations (see
.BR streamio (7)).
For drivers, this name is used only for reporting with the
.BR scls (8)
and
.BR strinfo (8)
commands.
.TP
.I sc_str
A pointer to the
.BR streamtab (9)
structure.
.TP
.I sc_open_stylesc_flags
Gosh does that ever look like a typo!
Specifies the style of the driver or module
.IR qi_qopen (9)
procedure and characteristics
of the driver or module.  Possible values are:
.RS
.PP
One of the following two flags must be set to indicate the style of
the module's
.IR qi_qopen (9)
procedure:
.TP
.B STR_NEW_OPEN
The
.IR qi_qopen (9)
syntax and semantics as used in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.TP
.B STR_OLD_OPEN
The
.IR qi_qopen (9)
syntax and semantics as used in
.IR "SVR 3"
.[
svr3
.]
.PP
If the module is multiprocessor-safe, the following flag should be added by
using the bitwise OR operator:
.TP
.B STR_MPSAFE
The driver or module was designed to be run on an MP system.
.PP
If the module uses callback functions that need to be protected against
interrupts (non-interrupt-safe callback functions) for the
.BR timeout (9)
or
.BR bufcall (9)
callbacks, the following flag should be added by using the bitwise OR
operator:
.TP
.B STR_QSAFETY
Specifies that the driver or module uses non-interrupt-safe callback functions
for the
.BR timeout (9)
or
.BR bufcall (9)
callbacks.
(See also
.BR itimeout (9).)
This flag is automatically set by
.I STREAMS
if the module is not multiprocessor-safe.
.TP
.B STR_PERSTREAM
Specifies that the module accepts to run at per-stream synchronization level.
.TP
.B STR_Q_NOTTOSPEC
Specifies that the module is designed to run it's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure under process context.
By default
.I STREAMS
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure run at interrupt context (softIRQ).  If the
.I STREAMS
module wants to execute its
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure under process context, it needs to set this flag.
.TP
.B STR_64BIT
Specifies that the module is capable of supporting 64-bit data types.
.TP
.B STR_NEWCLONING
Specifies that the driver
.IR qi_qopen (9)
uses new-style cloning.  Under this style, the
driver
.IR qi_qopen (9)
does not check for
.B CLONEOPEN
and yet returns a new device number.
.RE
.TP
.I sc_major
Specifies the major number of the device.
.TP
.I sc_sqlevel
Specifies the synchronization level to be used by
.I STREAMS
for the module.  There are seven levels of synchronization as follows:
.RS
.TP
.BR SQLVL_NOP "\- No synchronization"
Specifies that each queue can be accessed by more than one thread at the same
time.  The protection of internal data and of
.IR qi_putp (9)
and
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure against
.BR timeout (9)
or
.BR bufcall (9)
is done by the driver or module itself.  This synchronization level should be
used essentially for multiprocessor-efficient modules.
.TP
.BR SQLVL_QUEUE "\- Queue level"
Specifies that each queue can be accessed by only one thread at the same time.
This is the finest synchronization level, and should only be used when the two
sides of a queue pair do not share common data.
.TP
.BR SQLVL_QUEUEPAIR "\- Queue pair level"
Specifies that each queue pair can be accessed by only one thread at the same
time.
.TP
.BR SQLVL_MODULE "\- Module level"
Specifies that all instances of a module can be accessed by only one thread at
the same time.  This is the default value.
.TP
.BR SQLVL_ELSEWHERE "\- Arbitrary level"
Specifies that a group of modules can be accessed by only one thread at the
same time.  Usually, the group of modules is a set of cooperating modules, such
as a protocol family.  The group is defined by using the same name in the
.I sc_sqinfo
field for each module in the group.
.TP
.BR SQLVL_GLOBAL "\- Global level"
Specifies that all of
.I STREAMS
can be accessed by only one thread at the same time.  This option should
normally be used only for debugging.
.TP
.BR SQLVL_DEFAULT "\- Default level"
Specifies the default level, set to
.BR SQLVL_MODULE .
.RE
.TP
.I sc_sqinfo
Specifies an optional group name.  This field is only used when the
.BR SQLVL_ELSEWHERE
arbitrary synchronization level is set; all modules having the same name belong
to one group.  The name size is limited to eight
.RB ( FMNAMESZ )
characters.
.IP
The value of this member is a character string providing the name of the
external synchronization.  The registration function matches this name against
all existing external synchronization names.  If a match is found, that
synchronization queue is shared with this module.  If no match is found, a new
synchronization queue with the provided name is created.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR str_install ()
succeeds, it returns zero (0);
when it fails, it returns
a non-zero (positive) error code.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR str_install ()
fails, it returns one of the following (positive) error codes:
.TP \w'[ENOMEM]\(em'u
.RB [ EBUSY ]
The module is in use and cannot be unloaded.
.TP
.RB [ EEXIST ]
The module already exists in the system.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
An argument contains an invalid value.
.TP
.RB [ ENODEV ]
The module could not be loaded.
.TP
.RB [ ENOENT ]
The module is not present and cannot be unloaded.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
Insufficient memory was available to complete the request.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I STREAMS
is currently locked.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR str_install ()
should be called from User Context.
.BR str_install ()
is intended to be called by kernel module initialization routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR str_install ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR str_install ()
is a
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
function:
.B _AIX_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR str_install ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR str_install ()
is compatible with
.IR AIX \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Under
.IR AIX \(rg
to support dynamic loading and unloading of kernel modules, each
.I STREAMS
driver or module provides a configuration procedure.  This procedure is called
each time the extension is referenced in a load or unload operation.  The
system provides a name and a device number when the module loads.
.IP ""
Under
.B Linux
it is necessary to hook into the
.BR module_init (9)
and
.BR module_exit (9)
procedures and assign the
.I name
and
.I dev
number using
.BR MOD_PARM (9).
By convention, these module options are called
.I name
and
.IR major .
.IP ""
A driver's
.BR module_init (9)
routine should assign
.I name
and
.I major
to the
.B strconf_t
structure and call
.BR str_install ()
with
.BR STR_LOAD_DEV ;
the
.BR module_exit (9)
routine should call
.BR str_install ()
with
.BR STR_UNLOAD_DEV .
.IP ""
A module's
.BR module_init (9)
routine should call
.BR str_install ()
with
.BR STR_LOAD_MOD ;
the
.BR module_exit (9)
routine should call
.BR str_install ()
with
.BR STR_UNLOAD_MOD .
.IP \(em
For
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
the treatment of
.B SQLVL_GLOBAL
is different than others.  When
.B SQLVL_GLOBAL
is specified using this registration function, only one thread is allowed in all of STREAMS an
Uniprocessor Emulation is effected.  Because
.B SQLVL_GLOBAL
is only used for testing, this should not present an incompatibility.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
does not provide much special exclusion for open and close routines beyond that provided by
synchronization levels
.BR SQLVL_MODULE ", " SQLVL_ELSEWHERE " or " SQLVL_GLOBAL .
At
.BR SQLVL_QUEUEPAIR " and " SQLVL_QUEUE ,
.IR MacOT \(rg
documentation indicates that the open or close routine is excluded at a minimum syncrhonization of
.BR SQLVL_QUEUEPAIR
regardless of whether the synchronization is at the granularity of a queue.
The temptation was to have
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
effect this by setting an outer perimeter in these cases and making the outer perimeter exclusive
for open and close.  This would set the granularity at the level of a module which could have a negative
impact if one open routine sleeps waiting for another to wake it.
Therefore, for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
a special exclusive outer perimeter at the level of the queue pair is established when the inner
perimeter is at the level of the queue.
.IP \(em
Use of
.BR str_install ()
requires different include file sequences on
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
.]
than on
.IR AIX \(rg.
.IR AIX \(rg
includes
.B <pse/mi.h>
and
.B <sys/stream.h>
only.
.IP \(em
On
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
synchronization flags are not supported.  On
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
.]
synchronization flags are fully supported.
.IP \(em
.BR str_install ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR AIX \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR AIX \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
.]
differ from that of
.IR AIX \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR str_install ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR AIX \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR str_install ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.[
aixspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR str_install ()
first appeared in
.IR AIX \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
