'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man9/strevent.9.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.TH STREVENT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.SH NAME
.B strevent
\- STREAMS event structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The
.B strevent
structure is formatted as follows:
.nf
\fC\s-2\
struct strevent {
    union {
        struct {
            struct task_struct *procp;
            long events;
            int fd;
        } e;                      /* stream event */
        struct {
            queue_t *queue;
            struct module *kmod;
            void streamscall (*func) (long);
            long arg;
            size_t size;
        } b;                      /* bufcall event */
        struct {
            queue_t *queue;
            struct module *kmod;
            void streamscall (*func) (caddr_t);
            caddr_t arg;
            int pl;
            int cpu;
            struct timer_list timer;
        } t;                      /* timeout event */
        struct {
            queue_t *queue;
            struct module *kmod;
            void streamscall (*func) (void *);
            void *arg;
            queue_t *q1, *q2, *q3, *q4;
        } w;                      /* weld request */
    } x;
    struct strevent *se_next;     /* hash, cancel, frozen or free list */
    struct strevent **se_prev;    /* quick delete for hash, cancel, frozen or free list */
    struct strevent *se_link;     /* scheduler lists only */
    long se_id;                   /* identifier for this event structure */
    struct task_struct *se_task;  /* task running callback */
    volatile int se_state;        /* state of the event */
};

#define se_procp    x.e.procp
#define se_events   x.e.events
#define se_fd       x.e.fd

#define se_func     x.b.func
#define se_arg      x.b.arg
#define se_size     x.b.size

#define SE_IDLE       0  /* event idle */
#define SE_ARMED      1  /* event armed awaiting activation or cancellation */
#define SE_TRIGGERED  2  /* event trigger awaiting processing or cancellation */
#define SE_ACTIVE     3  /* event callback executing */
#define SE_CANCELLED  4  /* event cancelled, awaiting processing */
#define SE_HOLDING    5  /* event cancelling holding awaiting callback completion */
#define SE_FROZEN     6  /* event frozen awaiting cancellation termination */
\s+2\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The
.B strevent
structure contains the following members:
.TP \w'\ se_state\(em'u
.I x
A union of specialized structures used for different purposes.
.PD 0
.TP
.IR se_next ", " se_prev ", " se_link
List pointers for placing the structure on an internal list.
.TP
.I se_id
The identifier for this event structure.
.TP
.I se_task
A pointer to the process that is running a callback for the event.
.TP
.I se_state
The state of the STREAMS event.
.PD
.PP
The
.B x
union contains the following members:
.TP
.I e
The STREAMS event specialization of the union.
.PD 0
.TP
.I b
The bufcall event specialization of the union.
.TP
.I t
The timeout event specialization of the union.
.TP
.I w
The weldq event specialization of the union.
.PD
.PP
The
.B e
structure has the following members:
.TP
.I procp
.PD 0
The process to which to deliver STREAMS signals.
.TP
.I events
The events for which the process has subscribed to STREAMS signals.
.TP
.I fd
The file descriptor subscribe to STREAMS signals.
.PD
.PP
The
.B b
structure has the following members:
.TP
.I queue
The queue to use for synchronization.
.PD 0
.TP
.I kmod
The kernel module that contains the callback function.
.TP
.I func
The callback function.
.TP
.I arg
The argument to pass to the callback function.
.TP
.I size
The size of the buffer requested.
.PD
.PP
The
.B t
structure has the following members:
.TP
.I queue
The queue to use for synchronization.
.PD 0
.TP
.I kmod
The kernel module containing the callback function.
.TP
.I func
The callback function.
.TP
.I arg
The argument to pass to the callback function.
.TP
.I pl
The prority level of the callback.
.TP
.I cpu
The cpu upon which the timeout was scheduled.
.TP
.I timer
The internal Linux timer used to implement the timeout.
.PD
.PP
The
.B w
structure has the following members:
.TP
.I queue
The queue to use for synchronization.
.PD 0
.TP
.I kmod
The kernel module containing the callback function.
.TP
.I func
The callback function.
.TP
.I arg
The argument to pass to the callback function.
.TP
.IR q1 ", " q2 ", " q3 ", " q4
The queues to weld or unweld.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B strevent
structure is a structure used internal to the
.I STREAMS
scheduler and by the Stream head,
.BR sth (4),
to store information about STREAMS events that are scheduled and whose
callbacks are being processed within the
.I STREAMS
executive.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.I STREAMS
kernel threads run at process context within the kernel.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
The
.B strevent
structure is global to all CPUs and requires protection.  This is an internal
scheduler structure and should not be manipulated directly.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B strevent
structures are not intended to be used directly by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.  It is only intended to be used directly by the
.I STREAMS
executive and, in particular, the
.I STREAMS
scheduler.  Manipulating
.B strevent
structures without using
.I STREAMS
utility functions intended to do so, will likely cause panics and crash the
system.  Use proper
.I STREAMS
utility functions instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR sealloc (9),
.BR sefree (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B strevent
structure contain information that was allocated dynamically within the
kernel in accordance with the descriptions for
.IR "SVR 4"
.[
svr4spg
.]
in the MG.
.[
magic
.]
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibiltiy considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The
.B strevent
structure is consistent with the description of the structure associated with
the
.I STREAMS
scheduler functions of
.IR "SVR 4"
.[
magic
.]
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B strevent
structure first appears in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
