'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man9/streams_put.9.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STREAMS_PUT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B streams_put
\- invoke the put procedure for a \fISTREAMS\fP driver or module with a \fISTREAMS\fP message
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _HPUX_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "typedef void (*" streams_put_t ")(void *, mblk_t *);
.HP
.BI "void streams_put(streams_put_t " func ", queue_t *" q ", mblk_t *" mp ", void *" private );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I func
a function that will be called when write access has been acheived.
.TP
.I q
a pointer to the queue for which to upgrade to writer.
.TP
.I mp
a
.I STREAMS
message to pass to the call-out function.
.TP
.I private
a private pointer to pass to the call-out function.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR streams_put ()
schedules the call-out function,
.IR func ,
to be executed with the private pointer,
.IR private ,
and the passed in message,
.IR mp ,
once the driver or module queue can be entered exclusively.
.PP
If there is no synchronization in effect for the queue,
.IR q ,
then this function has the same effect as calling
.I proc
directly with
.IR private " and " mp
as arguments.
.PP
It is typical to pass
.IR q
also in the
.I private
argument.
The call
.BI streams_put( &put ", " q ", " mp ", " q )
effectives calls the
.BR put (9s)
function from outside of
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR streams_put ()
allows
.RI non- STREAMS
software to safely call
.I STREAMS
utilities.
.RI Non- STREAMS
code can call
.BR streams_put (),
passing it a function and a queue pointer,
.IR q .
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
runs the function as if it were the queue's
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure.  The function can safely manipulate the queue and access the same data structures as the
queue's
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure.
.BR streams_put ()
passes
.I private
and
.I mp
to
.IR func .
The caller can pass any value it wishes in the
.I private
argument.
The caller must pass a valid message block pointer in
.IR mp ,
because
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
uses fields in the message block not visible to the
.I STREAMS
programmer.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR streams_put ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR streams_put ()
fails, it fails silently.
.BR streams_put ()
fails when
.IR q
is invalid.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR streams_put ()
can be called from any context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR streams_put ()
is MP-safe and was intended to support MP-safe operation in the SMP
environment.
.PP
Considerations should be given when writing the call-out function that the
function may execute in parallel with asynchronous entry points, callbacks,
call-outs and interrupt service procedures.
.PP
However, in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
the call-out function is scheduled on the same CPU and the CPU which called
.BR streams_put ().
This means that
.BR streams_put ()
will return before the call-out function executes when called on the ICS.
Also, when called on the ICS, the call-out function will not execute before
the calling function returns or the next preemption point is encountered.
.PP
When called from any other context, the call-out function will execute before
the call returns.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR streams_put ()
is a
.IR HP-UX \(rg-specific
function:
.B _HPUX_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_HPUX
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_HPUX_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
uses
a single mechanism,
.BR __strwrit (),
for supporting all queue writer functions such as
.BR qwriter (9)
and
.BR mps_become_writer (9),
and a single mechanism,
.BR __strfunc (),
for supporting all queue put function such as
.BR streams_put ().
.PP
When called on the ICS, execution of the call-out function is deferrred until
the next run of the
.I STREAMS
scheduler,
.BR runqueues (9),
and the function simply returns.
When called from any other context, synchronization is performed and the call-out function is executed immediately thereafter
and before returning.  See
.BR mp-streams (9)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR put (9s),
.BR qwriter (9),
.BR mps_become_writer (9),
.BR hpuxcompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR streams_put ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR streams_put ()
is compatible with
.IR HP-UX \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR streams_put ()
is an
.IR HP-UX \(rg-specific
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The standard
.BR freezestr (9)
and
.BR put (9s)
functions should be used in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR streams_put ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR HP-UX \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR HP-UX \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
.]
differ from that of
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR streams_put ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR HP-UX \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR streams_put ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR hpuxcompat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR HP-UX \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR streams_put ()
first appeared in
.IR HP-UX \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
