'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man9/strmod_add.9.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRMOD_ADD 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strmod_add
\- add a \fISTREAMS\fR module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _OSF_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strconf.h>
.HP
dev_t \fBstrmod_add\fR(dev_t \fIdev\fR, struct streamtab *\fIst\fR, struct streamadm *\fIsa\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I dev
The external device number to use when adding a driver.  If
.B NODEV
is used, the first available slot is used.  This parameter is ignored for
modules.
.TP
.I st
A pointer to the
.B streamtab
structure describing the
.I STREAMS
module.  This structure is statically allocated by the driver or module.
.[
svr3
.]
.TP
.I sa
A pointer to the
.B streamadm
structure describing the
.I STREAMS
module.  This structure does not have to be statically allocated.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR strmod_add ()
is used to configure
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules into the kernel.  It allows
.I STREAMS
drivers to add entry points in character device switch tables.  Modules are
added to the
.I STREAMS
module switch.
.PP
When adding a driver only,
.BR strmod_add ()
takes a device number, which is used to determine the device switch slot for
the entry points.  A
.I STREAMS
driver can supply
.B NODEV
instead of a device number.  In this case,
.BR strmod_add ()
finds the first available device switch slot and returns the number actually
used.  If a device switch lot is already in use or if there are not slots
available,
.B NODEV
is returned.
.PP
.I st
is a pointer to a traditional
.[
svr3
.]
.B streamtab
structure.  The structure contains pointers to entry points for the module's
read and write queue routines.
.PP
.I sa
points to a
.B streamadm
structure providing additional information that is required under
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.
.\"
.SS CONFIGURATION
.PP
The
.B streamadm
structure defines additional configuration information for
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
uses this structure in addition to the traditional
.B streamtab
structure when configuring a
.I STREAMS
driver or module.
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1
struct streamadm {
    uint sa_version;
    uint sa_flags;
    char sa_name[FMNAMESZ + 1];
    caddr_t sa_ttys;
    uint sa_sync_level;
    caddr_t sa_sync_info;
};
\s+1\fR
.fi
.TP
.B sa_version
Version of the
.B streamadm
structure.
This field is for forward and backward compatibility.
.IP ""
This field is ignored by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.[
@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
.]
.TP
.B sa_flags
Flags specifying additional characteristics of the driver or module being
added.  The flags are a bitwise OR of one or more of the following flags:
.RS
.TP
.B STR_IS_DEVICE
The
.I STREAMS
module being registered is a device driver.  For drivers, the
.I dev
argument to
.BR strmod_add ()
and the return value
are significant.
One, and only one, of
.B STR_IS_DEVICE
or
.B STR_IS_MODULE
can be specified.
.TP
.B STR_IS_MODULE
The
.I STREAMS
module being registered is a pushable module.  For pushable modules, the
.I dev
argument to
.BR strmod_add ()
and the return value
are ignored.
One, and only one, of
.B STR_IS_DEVICE
or
.B STR_IS_MODULE
can be specified.
.TP
.B STR_SYSV4_OPEN
The
.I STREAMS
driver or module being registered follows
.I SVR 4
.IR qi_qopen (9)
semantics.  If this flag is not set, the
driver or module obeys
.I SVR 3
.IR qi_qopen (9)
semantics.
.TP
.B STR_QSAFETY
When this flag is set, it indicates that the driver or module requires
interrupt-safe callback functions.  Setting this flag causes the
.I STREAMS
executive to suppress interrupts while executing all asynchronous callback
functions.
.RE
.TP
.B sa_name
The unique name of the driver or module.  Modules and drivers share a common
name space.  The maximum length for a name is set by
.BR FMNAMESZ ,
which is typically set to eight (8) characters.
.IP ""
This name is used to register character devices for device drivers, and is the
name that must be used as the argument of an
.B I_PUSH
IO control (see
.BR streamio (7))
for a pushable module.  It is also used as the name for verification of module
presence for both drivers and modules with the
.BR sad (4)
driver and the
.BR autopush (8)
utility.
.TP
.B sa_ttys
A pointer to the
.BR ttys ()
routine that wil be used by the driver or module.  When the driver or module
is added with
.BR strmod_add (),
this pointer will be placed in the
.I d_ttys
field in the
.B cdevsw
structure.  If the driver is not a
.BR tty ,
this field is set to
.BR NULL .
.IP ""
This field is ignored by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.TP
.B sa_sync_level
This field specifies the synchronization level to be used with the module or
drivers.  The synchronization level specifies the number of concurrent thread
of execution that can be within a scope.
For additional information concerning the synchronization of
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules, see
.BR mp-streams (9).
The scope can be specified at one of
a number of levels as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B SQLVL_DEFAULT
Default level synchronization.
.IP ""
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
specifies
.[
osfspg
.]
that the default level is the same as
.BR SQLVL_GLOBAL ,
below.
.TP
.B SQLVL_GLOBAL
Global level synchronization.
.TP
.B SQLVL_ELSEWHERE
Arbitrary level synchronization.
.TP
.B SQLVL_MODULE
Module level synchronization.
.TP
.B SQLVL_QUEUEPAIR
Queue pair level synchronization.
.TP
.B SQLVL_QUEUE
Queue level synchronization.
.TP
.B SQLVL_NOP
No synchronization.
.IP ""
This level is not provided by
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.
.[
osfspg
.]
.RE
.TP
.B sa_sync_info
A pointer to synchronization data.  This field is relevant only if
.I sa_sync_level
is set to
.BR SQLVL_ELSEWHERE
and specifies the arbitrary scope of synchronization.
.IP
The value of this member is a character string providing the name of the
external synchronization.  The registration function matches this name against
all existing external synchronization names.  If a match is found, that
synchronization queue is shared with this module.  If no match is found, a new
synchronization queue with the provided name is created.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR strmod_add ()
succeeds,
and
.I sa_flags
has
.B STR_IS_DEVICE
set, the return value is the character device number assigned to the driver.
When
.BR strmod_add ()
succeeds,
and
.I sa_flags
has
.B STR_IS_MODULE
set, the return value is the the module identifier assigned to the module.
When either call fails,
the return value is
.BR NODEV .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR strmod_add ()
fails, it returns
.BR NODEV .
.BR strmod_add ()
can fail because of failure to allocate the necessary structures, invalid parameters, or the
unavailability of the requested name or major device number.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR strmod_add ()
should be called from User context.  It is intended to be called by kernel
module initialization routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR strmod_add ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The device number can be constructed from the major number with
.BR makedevice (9).
.PP
.BR strmod_add ()
is a
.IR OSF/1 \(rg-specific
function:
.B _OSF_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_OSF
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_OSF_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR sad (4),
.BR autopush (8),
.BR mp-streams (9),
.BR makedevice (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR strmod_add ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR strmod_add ()
is compatible with
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR strmod_add ()
ignores the
.I sa_version
field of the
.B streamadm
structure, unlike
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.
.[
osfdoc
.]
.IP \(em
.BR strmod_add ()
ignores the
.I sa_ttys
field of the
.B streamadm
structure, unlike
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.
.[
osfdoc
.]
.IP \(em
Specifying
.B SQLVL_DEFAULT
in the
.I sa_sync_level
field of the
.B streamadm
structure is equivalent to
.B SQLVL_MODULE
instead of
.B SQLVL_GLOBAL
as specified in
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
documentation.
.[
osfdoc
.]
.IP \(em
.BR strmod_add ()
recognizes the
.B SQLVL_NOP
setting in the
.I sa_sync_level
field, whereas,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
does not document this level.
.IP \(em
.BR strmod_add ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
.]
differ from that of
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR strmod_add ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR strmod_add ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
osfdoc
.]
.[
osfspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR strmod_add ()
first appeared in
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
