'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man9/strqset.9.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRQSET 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strqset
\- sets attributes of a \fISTREAMS\fR message queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int strqset(queue_t *" q ", qfields_t " what ", unsigned char " band ", long " val ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue for which to set values.
.PD 0
.TP
.I what
what values of the associated queue to set.
.TP
.I band
the band for the specified settings.
.TP
.I val
the value to set.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR strqset ()
sets the attribute requested by
.I what
for the queue pointed to by
.I q
and band specified by
.I band
to the value specified by
.IR val .
The value set can be either a scalar or a pointer.
.PP
When
.I band
is zero,
.BR strqset ()
will set the attribute specified by
.I what
for the queue.
When
.I band
is non-zero (between 1 and 255),
.BR strqset ()
will set the attribute specified by
.I what
for the queue band specified by
.IR band .
.PP
The argument
.I what
specifies the queue (or queue band if
.I band
is non-zero) attribute to be set.
.I what
can be one of the following values.
.TP \w'QMAXPSZ\(em'u
.B QHIWAT
Sets the high water mark associated with the
.I q
or queue
.IR band .
.PD 0
.TP
.B QLOWAT
Sets the low water mark associated with the
.I q
or queue
.IR band .
.TP
.B QMAXPSZ
Sets the maximum packet size associated with the
.IR q .
For this operation
.I band
must be zero (0).
.TP
.B QMINPSZ
Sets the minimum packet size associated with the
.IR q .
For this operation
.I band
must be zero (0).
.PD
.PP
.BR strqset ()
provides a mechanism whereby a
.IR STREAMS (4)
driver or module can change information
about a queue or queue band without directly accessing the
.B queue
or
.B qband
structures.
Values set by
.BR strqset ()
are equivalent to directly accessing the
.B queue
or
.B qband
structure members described below.
.PP
The
.B queue
structure contains at least the following members:
.HP
.BI "size_t " q_hiwat
\- the high water mark for the queue.
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "size_t " q_lowat
\- the low water mark for the queue.
.HP
.BI "ssize_t " q_maxpsz
\- the maximum message size accepted by the queue.
.HP
.BI "ssize_t " q_minpsz
\- the minimum message size accepted by the queue.
.PD
.PP
The
.B qband
structure contains at least the following members:
.HP
.BI "size_t " qb_hiwat
\- the high water mark for the band.
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "size_t " qb_lowat
\- the low water mark for the band.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR strqset ()
returns zero (0) and sets the appropriate attribute to the appropriate value;
upon failure, a non-zero error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR strqset ()
fails, the requested attribute remains unchanged, and
it returns one of the following errors:
.TP \w'[ENOMEM]\(em'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The queue pointer
.I q
is
.BR NULL;
.I q
does not point to a valid queue structure;
.BR QMAXPSZ " or " QMINPSZ
was specified for
.I what
and
.I band
was non-zero;
.I what
is not a valid queue or queue band attribute.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
the queue band specified in
.I band
does not exist and a
.BR qband (9)
structure could not be immediately allocated.
.TP
.RB [ EPERM ]
.I what
specified an attribute that is appropriate for
.BR strqget (9),
but which is invalid for
.BR strqset ():
.BR QCOUNT ", " QFIRST ", " QLAST " or " QFLAG .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR strqset ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures, callouts, callbacks, soft
interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR strqset ()
is MP-safe.
.PP
Calling
.BR strqset ()
on a queue and stream previously frozen with
.BR freezestr (9)
could result in single-party deadlock.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"None.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR strqget (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR strqset (9)
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR strqset (9)
is source-level compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4spg
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
and
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
.[
suxspg
.]
require that a stream be frozen with
.BR freezestr (9)
for the duration of the call to
.BR strqset ().
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
lists
.BR strqset ()
as a function that can only be passed a queue in the queue pair currently
being synchronized within a module procedure.
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
also lists
.BR strqset ()
as a utility that cannot be called from user functions or
.RI non- STREAMS
code; that is, contexts asynchronous to the Stream containing
.IR q .
.IP ""
.IR HP-UX \(rg
compatible drivers and modules will not call
.BR strqset ()
from outside of a
.BR qinit (9)
routine for the queue pair of
.IR q .
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR strqset ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
