'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man9/strqget.9.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRQGET 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strqget
\- gets information about a \fISTREAMS\fR message queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int strqget(queue_t *" q ", qfields_t " what ", unsigned char " band ", long *" val );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue for which to retrieve parameters.
.PD 0
.TP
.I what
which parameter to retrieve.
.TP
.I band
the queue band for which to retrieve parameters.
.TP
.I val
the pointer to where the retrieved value is to be placed.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR strqget ()
returns the value or pointer requested by
.I what
for the queue pointed to by
.I q
and band specified by
.I band
into the memory area pointed to by
.IR val .
The attribute retrieved can be either a scalar or a pointer.
.PP
When
.I band
is zero,
.BR strqget ()
will retrieve the attribute specified by
.I what
for the queue.
When
.I band
is non-zero (between 1 and 255),
.BR strqget ()
will retrieve the attribute specified by
.I what
for the queue band specified by
.IR band .
.PP
The argument
.I what
specifies which queue (or queue band if
.I band
is non-zero) attribute is to be retrieved.
.I what
can be one of the following values:
.TP \w'\(emQMAXPSZ\(em'u
.B QHIWAT
Gets the high water mark associated with the
.PD 0
.I q
or queue
.IR band .
.TP
.B QLOWAT
Gets the low water mark associated with the
.I q
or queue
.IR band .
.TP
.B QCOUNT
Gets the count of bytes associated with the
.I q
or queue
.IR band .
.TP
.B QFIRST
Gets the first message pointer associated with the
.I q
or queue
.IR band .
.TP
.B QLAST
Gets the last message pointer associated with the
.I q
or queue
.IR band .
.TP
.B QFLAG
Gets the flags associated with the
.I q
or queue
.IR band .
.TP \w'\(emQMAXPSZ\(em'u
.PD 0
.B QMAXPSZ
Gets the maximum packet size associated with the
.IR q .
For this operation
.I band
must be zero (0).
.TP
.B QMINPSZ
Gets the minimum packet size associated with the
.IR q .
For this operation
.I band
must be zero (0).
.PD
.PP
.BR strqget ()
provides a mechanism whereby a
.IR STREAMS (4)
driver or module can access information
about a queue or queue band without directly accessing the
.B queue
or
.B qband
structures.
Values retrieved by
.BR strqget ()
are equivalent to directly accessing the
.B queue
or
.B qband
structure members described below.
.PP
The
.B queue
structure contains at least the following members:
.HP
.BI "ulong " q_hiwat
\- the high water mark for the queue.
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "ulong " q_lowat
\- the low water mark for the queue.
.HP
.BI "ulong " q_count
\- the count of the number of bytes in the queue.
.HP
.BI "struct msgb *" q_first
\- the first message in the queue.
.HP
.BI "struct msgb *" q_last
\- the last message in the queue.
.HP
.BI "ulong " q_flag
\- the flags associated with the queue, see
.BR "\*(lqQueue Flags\*(rq" ,
above.
.HP
.BI "long " q_maxpsz
\- the maximum message size accepted by the queue.
.HP
.BI "long " q_minpsz
\- the minimum message size accepted by the queue.
.PD
.PP
The
.B qband
structure contains at least the following members:
.HP
.BI "ulong " qb_hiwat
\- the high water mark for the band.
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "ulong " qb_lowat
\- the low water mark for the band.
.HP
.BI "ulong " qb_count;
\- the count of the number of bytes in the band.
.HP
.BI "struct msgb *" qb_first
\- the first message in the band.
.HP
.BI "struct msgb *" qb_last
\- the last message in the band.
.HP
.BI "ulong " qb_flag
\- the flags associated with the band, see
.BR "\*(lqQueue Band Flags\*(rq" ,
above.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS "Queue Flags"
.PP
When
.BR strqget ()
is called with
.I what
set to
.B QFLAG
and
.I band
is set to zero (0),
.BR strqget ()
returns the queue flags in the area pointed to by
.IR val .
The queue flags in the area pointed to by
.I val
can contain the following flags:
.TP \w'QSVCBUSY\(em'u
.B QENAB
set when the queue is enabled.
.PD 0
.TP
.B QWANTR
set when the previous queue wants to read.
.TP
.B QWANTW
set when the previous queue wants to write.
.TP
.B QFULL
set when the queue is full.  The queue is full when the count of bytes in the queue was greater than
the high water mark for the queue, yet has not subsided to less than or equal to the low water marke
for the queue.
.TP
.B QREADR
set when the queue is the reader.
.TP
.B QUSE
set when the queue is not free.
.TP
.B QNOENB
set when the queue is not to be enabled.
.\"
.\" non standard
.\"
.TP
.B QUP
set when the queue uses uni-processor emulation.
.TP
.B QBACK
set when the queue is a back-enabled queue.
.TP
.B QOLD
set when the queue supports the old
.I SVR 3
.[
svr3spg
.]
style open/close.
.TP
.B QHLIST
set when the stream head has scan listed the queue.
.TP
.B QTOENAB
set when the stream is to be enabled.
.TP
.B QSYNCH
set when the queue is synchornized.
.TP
.B QSAFE
set when the queue requires safe callbacks
.RI ( STREAMS
driver interrupts disabled).
.TP
.B QWELDED
wet when the queue is welded.
.TP
.B QSVCBUSY
set when the queue
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure is running.
.TP
.B QWCLOSE
set when the queue is in close wait.
.TP
.B QPROCS
set when
.BR qprocsoff (9)
has been called, or
.BR qprocson (9)
has yet to be called for the queue.
.\"
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SS "Queue Band Flags"
.PP
When
.BR strqget ()
is called with
.I what
set to
.B QFLAG
and
.I band
is set between 1 and 255,
.BR strqget ()
returns the queue band flags associated with
.I band
in the area pointed to by
.IR val .
The queue band flags in the area pointed to by
.I val
can contain the following flags:
.TP \w'QB_WANTW\(em'u
.B QB_FULL
set when the queue band is full.  The queue band is full when the count of the
bytes in the queue band was greater than the high water mark for the queue
band, and has not yet dropped to zero or below the low water mark for the queue.
.PD 0
.TP
.B QB_WANTW
set when the previous queue wants to write to this queue band.
.\"
.\" UnixWare/Solaris
.\"
.TP
.B QB_BACK
set when the queue band is back-enabled.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR strqget ()
is the proper transparent and implementation independent method for accessing members of the
.BR queue (9)
and
.BR qband (9)
structures.
.PP
.BR strqget ()
will attempt to allocate a
.BR qband (9)
structure for bands that are accessed for which a
.BR qband (9)
structure does not yet exist.
This means that
.BR strqget ()
can be used to allocate queue bands so that subsequent calls to
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR putq (9)
and
.BR putbq (9)
will not fail for the allocated band.
.PP
.BR strqget ()
can be called in a driver or module initialization routine to ensure that
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR putq (9)
and
.BR putbq (9)
will never fail for the allocated queue band.  This is useful if
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR putq (9)
or
.BR putbq (9)
are called from interrupt service routine context.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR strqget ()
returns zero (0) and places the appropriate value in the
memory area pointed to by
.IR val .
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR strqget ()
returns a non-zero error number.
The memory area pointed to by
.I val
remains unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR strqget ()
fails,
it returns one of the following errors:
.TP \w'[ENOMEM]\(em'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The value pointer
.I val
is
.BR NULL ;
the queue pointer
.I q
is
.BR NULL;
.I q
does not point to a valid queue structure;
.BR QMAXPSZ " or " QMINPSZ
was specified for
.I what
and
.I band
was non-zero;
.I what
is not a valid queue or queue band attribute.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
the queue band specified in
.I band
does not exist and a
.BR qband (9)
structure could not be immediately allocated.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR strqget ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures, callouts, callbacks, soft
interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR strqget ()
is MP-safe.
.PP
Calling
.BR strqget ()
on a queue and stream previously frozen with
.BR freezestr (9)
could result in single-party deadlock.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR strqget ()
uses recursive read-write locks on the stream head, so calls to
.BR strqget ()
on a stream frozen with
.BR freezestr (9)
will not result in single-party deadlock.  Also, failure to call
.BR freezestr (9)
on the stream will not cause
.BR strqget ()
to panic because the head lock is still taken.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR qband (9),
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR strqset (9),
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR putbq (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR strqget ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR strqget ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4dk
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR strqget ()
returns some specialized flags, such as the queue flags
.BR QUP ,
.BR QBACK ,
.BR QOLD ,
.BR QHLIST ,
.BR QTOENAB ,
.BR QSYNCH ,
.BR QSAFE ,
.BR QWELDED ,
.BR QSVCBUSY
and
.BR QWCLOSE ,
and the queue band flag
.BR QB_BACK .
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will mask the queue flags returned by
.BR strqget ()
with
.BR "( QENAB | QWANTR | QWANTW | QFULL | QREADR | QUSE | QNOENB )" ,
and queue band flags with
.BR "( QB_FULL | QB_WANTW )" .
.IP \(em
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" ,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
require that a stream be frozen with
.BR freezestr (9)
for the duration of the call to
.BR strqget ().
.[
uslspg
.]
.[
suxspg
.]
.[
uw7spg
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will freeze the stream with
.BR freezestr (9)
before calling
.BR strqget ().
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
lists
.BR strqget ()
as a function that can only be passed a queue in the queue pair currently
being synchronized within a module procedure.
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
also lists
.BR strqget ()
as a utility that cannot be called from user functions or
.RI non- STREAMS
code; that is, contexts asynchronous to the Stream containing
.IR q .
.IP ""
.IR HP-UX \(rg
compatible drivers and modules will not call
.BR strqget ()
from outside of a
.BR qinit (9)
routine for the queue pair of
.IR q .
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
documents arguments
.I q
and
.I band
as
.B register
arguments.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IP \(em
.BR strqget ()
will allocate a queue band structure for the band argument,
.IR band ,
if one does not already exist.
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
indicate that
.BR strqget ()
and
.BR strqset (9)
will cause
.BR qband (9)
allocation to occur if executed for a queue band,
.IR band ,
that does not currently exist.
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.[
suxspg
.]
.[
uxpspg
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules can assume that a call to
.BR strqget ()
with a band,
.IR band ,
for a queue band structure
.BR qband (9),
that has not yet been allocated, will cause the allocation of the queue band structure.
That is, drivers can assume that a successful call to
.BR strqget ()
for a given queue band,
.IR band ,
will ensure that
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR putq (9)
and
.BR putbq (9)
will always succeed for the queue band,
.IR band .
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR strqget ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
