'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: syncq.9.man,v 1.1.2.1 2011-02-07 02:14:52 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:14:52 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: syncq.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2011-02-07 02:14:52  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SYNQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B syncq
\- \fISTREAMS\fP Stream head structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.B #include <sys/strsubr.h>

typedef struct syncq {
    spinlock_t sq_lock;                 /* spin lock for this structure */
    int sq_count;                       /* no of threads inside (negative for exclusive) */
    struct task_struct *sq_owner;       /* exclusive owner */
    wait_queue_head_t sq_waitq;         /* qopen/qclose waiters */
    struct strevent *sq_ehead;          /* head of event queue */
    struct strevent **sq_etail;         /* tail of event queue */
    queue_t *sq_qhead;                  /* head of service queue */
    queue_t **sq_qtail;                 /* tail of service queue */
    mblk_t *sq_mhead;                   /* head of put queue */
    mblk_t **sq_mtail;                  /* tail of put queue */
    struct syncq *sq_outer;             /* synch queue outside this one (if any) */
    unsigned int sq_flag;               /* synch queue flags */
    unsigned int sq_level;              /* synch queue level */
    struct syncq *sq_link;              /* synch queue schedule list */
    char sq_info[FMNAMESZ + 1];         /* synch queue info */
    atomic_t sq_refs;                   /* structure references */
    struct syncq *sq_next;              /* list of all elsewhere structures */
    struct syncq **sq_prev;             /* list of all elsewhere structures */
} syncq_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
.TP \w'\ sq_mhead\ 'u
.I sq_lock
Spin lock for this structure.
.PD 0
.TP
.I sq_count
Number of threads inside the exclusion barrier (negative for exclusive).
.TP
.I sq_owner
The current exclusive owner (if any).
.TP
.I sq_waitq
Processing waiting on
.BR qopen "(9) or " qclose (9).
.TP
.I sq_ehead
Head of event queue.
.TP
.I sq_etail
Tail of event queue.
.TP
.I sq_qhead
Head of service queue.
.TP
.I sq_qtail
Tail of service queue.
.TP
.I sq_mhead
Head of put queue.
.TP
.I sq_mtail
Tail of put queue.
.TP
.I sq_outer
Synchronization queue outside this one (if any).
.PD
.TP
.I sq_flag
Synchronization queue flags.
.RS
.TP \w'\ SQ_WAITERS\ 'u
.B SQ_OUTER
This is an outer barrier (for
.IR Solaris \(rg
compatiblity).
.PD 0
.TP
.B SQ_INNER
This is an inner barrier.
.TP
.B SQ_EXCLUS
.BR qopen "(9) and " qclose (9)
are exclusive at the outer barrier.
.TP
.B SQ_SHARED
.BR put (9)
is shared at the inner barrier.
.TP
.B SQ_WAITERS
This synchronization queue has waiters.
.TP
.B SQ_BACKLOG
This synchronization queue has a backlog left by non-waiters.
.TP
.B SQ_SCHED
This synchronization queue is scheduled for backlog clearing.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I sq_level
Synchronization queue level.
.PD 0
.TP
.I sq_link
Synchronization queue schedule list.
.TP
.I sq_info
Synchronization queue info.
.TP
.I sq_refs
Structure references.
.TP
.I sq_next
List of all elsewhere structures.
.TP
.I sq_prev
List of all elsewhere structures.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B syncq
structure is the structure that is used in Linux Fast-STREAMS to provide
synchronization for a Stream.  The structure is named the same and has
equivalent members to that used in
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.[
solspg
.]
Additional members have been provided for with other SVR 4.2 MP based STREAMS
releases and specific Linux Fast-STREAMS features.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B syncq
structure should never be access directly by drivers or modules: the normal
.I STREAMS
DDI/DKI functions hould be used instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
The
.B syncq
structure can be access from any context where the corresponding utility
function is permitted; however, accessing the structure directly from any
context outside the
.I STREAMS
executive is strongly discouraged.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
The
.B syncq
structure is MP-safe when accessed using the appropriate utility functions
and from the appropriate context.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Members of the
.B syncq
structure should not be accessed directly by
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.  Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should, where possible, use the facilities provided for
implementation and architectural independence.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR M_ERROR (9),
.BR M_READ (9),
.BR M_SIG (9),
.BR fifo (4s),
.BR pipe (4),
.BR fattach (2),
.BR msgb (9),
.BR poll (2s),
.BR read "(2s), " getmsg "(2s), " getpmsg "(2s), " I_RECVFD (7),
.BR write "(2s), " putmsg "(2s), " putpmsg "(2s), " I_SENDFD (7),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR open (2s),
.BR I_LINK (7),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B syncq
structure is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The flags defined for the
.I sd_flag
member of the
.B syncq
structure are not necessarily binary compatible with any given
implementation.
.IP \(em
Members with the same name as other STREAMS implementation structure members
are not necessarily completely compatible with those implementations.
.IP \(em
Drivers and modules should never directly access members (anyway).
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted: some degree of source compatibility is
provided.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 EFT MP" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B syncq
structure was introduced in
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
