'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH UMOUNT2 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B umount2
\- unmount a file system
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _LIS_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dki.h>
.HP
int \fBumount2\fR(char *\fIpathname\fR, int \fIflags\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\ pathname\ 'u
.I pathname
is the path to the directory to which the file system is attached.
.PD 0
.TP
.I flags
can be one of the following:
.RS
.TP \w'\ MTP_FORCE\ 'u
.B MTP_FORCE
force unmount the file system
.RE
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
is an
.IR LiS -specific
.[
lis
.]
wrapper function to the system call
.BR umount2 (2)
that can be called from within the kernel.
.PP
The purpose of this function being called from within the kernel is to permit
.IR STREAMS (4)
kernel modules to mount their own file systems.
.PP
Normally, a file system would be mounted by a
.IR STREAMS (4)
driver or module when the
.B Linux
kernel module loads (i.e. within the
.BR init_module (9)
function).  Normally,
.BR umount2 ()
would be called within the kernel module
.BR cleanup_module (9)
function to unmount the file systems that were mounted during module
initialization.
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR umount (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR umount2 ()
succeeds, it returns zero (0);
when it fails, it returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
fails under the same conditions and with the same (negative) error numbers as
.BR umount (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
can be called from user context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
is implemented by changing the data segment to the kernel data segment and
calling
.BR umount (2).
This means that the
.BR uid " and " euid
of the caller is not changed.  This makes this function rather useless if the
process invoking it is not the kernel module loading daemon, or other process
running with real root permission.
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
is a
.IR LiS -specific
function:
.B _LIS_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_LIS
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_LIS_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR umount (2),
.BR mount (9),
.BR mknod (9),
.BR unlink (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
is compatible with
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR umount2 ()
is not bug for bug compatible with
.IR LiS .
.IP ""
.I LiS
synthesizes system calls from inside the kernel that is incompatible with
architectures that do not support in-kernel system calls.
.[
lis
.]
.BR umount2 ()
performs a direct function call to
.BR sys_umount (9)
within the kernel and does not suffer from this deficiency.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will use
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
in place of
.IR LiS .
.IP \(em
.BR umount2 ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.I LiS
for the purpose of porting
.I LiS
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR LiS ,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR umount2 ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.I LiS
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR umount2 ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.IP \(em
Symbol
.B lis_umount2
is provided for compatibility with
.IR LiS .
.BR lis_umount2 ()
simply calls
.BR umount2 ().
Note that
.BR lis_umount2 ()
was deprecated as of
.IR "LiS 2.18.0" .
See
.BR lisdeprec (9)
for more information.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.I LiS
documentation.
.[
lis
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR umount2 ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 2" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
