'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH UNREGISTER_STRNOD 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B unregister_strnod
\- unregister a \fISTREAMS\fR minor device node
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR "STREAMS" ,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strconf.h>
.HP
.BI "int unregister_strnod(struct cdevsw *" cdev ", minor_t " minor);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I cdev
a pointer to the
.BR cdevsw (9)
.I STREAMS
character device switch table entry representing the
.I STREAMS
driver from which to unregister the minor device node.
.TP
.I minor
the minor device number from which to unregister the device node;
when specified as minus one
.RB ( -1 ),
.I STREAMS
is to instead unregister all registered minor device nodes.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR unregister_strnod ()
unregisters the minor device node associated with minor device number,
.IR minor ,
from the
.I STREAMS
driver defined by
.IR cdev .
The minor device number must have previously been successfully registered to
.I cdev
under minor device number
.I minor
with a successful call to
.BR register_strnod (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR unregister_strnod ()
is use to unregister a specialized device minor node previously created and
registered with a successful call to
.BR register_strnod (9).
For each successful call to
.BR register_strnod (9),
a corresponding call to
.BR unregister_strnod ()
with the same
.I cdev
and
.I minor
arguments must be performed before a
.I STREAMS
driver is unloaded.
Instead of performing individual corresponding calls to
.BR unregister_strnod (),
.I minor
can be specified as minus one
.RB ( -1 )
to request deregistration of all minor device nodes associated with
.IR cdev .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR unregister_strnod ()
is successful, it returns zero
.RB ( 0 );
on failure, it returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR unregister_strnod ()
fails, it returns a negative error number as follows:
.TP \w'[\fBEINVAL\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I cdev
or
.I cdev->d_name
is
.BR NULL ;
or
.I cdev->d_name
is a zero-length string.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I cdev
is not properly registered.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
The
.I minor
argument specifies a single minor device number, but no minor device node is
associated with that minor device number.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR unregister_strnod ()
can be called at blockable process context.  It is intended to be called in the kernel module
initialization sequence or in a kernel initialization routine.
.BR unregister_strnod ()
may also be called from within a
.I STREAMS
driver or module
.IR qi_qopen (9)
or
.IR qi_qclose (9)
routine.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR register_strnod ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.
.\"
.\"
\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Loadable kernel modules that call
.BR register_strnod (9)
when loading
must call
.BR unregister_strnod ()
before unloading.
.BR unregister_strnod ()
must be called with the same value of
.I cdev
and
.I minor
with which
.BR register_strnod (9)
was called (or returned in the case of
.IR minor ).
.PP
Drivers unregistered with
.BR unregister_strnod ()
will also disappear as a device node under
.BR /dev/streams ,
when the
.BR specfs (5)
filesystem has been mounted on
.BR /dev/streams .
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
See
.BR register_strnod (9)
for examples.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR register_strnod (9),
.BR cdevsw (9),
.BR devnode (9),
.BR register_strdev (9),
.BR streamtab (9),
.BR stat (2),
.BR specfs (5),
.BR mknod (8),
.BR clone (4),
.BR sad (4),
.BR qi_qopen (9),
.BR qi_qclose (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR unregister_strnod ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR unregister_strnod ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
implementation specific function.
Registration of
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules in inherently implementation specific and non-portable.
Different implementation provide different mechanisms.
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for mechanisms compatible with other implementations
and additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Registration and de-registration of \fISTREAMS\fR drivers is implementation
specific and not subject to standardization.
.BR unregister_strnod ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
implementation specific function.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR unregister_strnod ()
first appeared in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
