'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man9/unregister_cmajor.9.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH UNREGISTER_CMAJOR 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B unregister_cmajor
\- unregister external device major number
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strsubr.h>
.HP
.BI "int unregister_cmajor(struct cdevsw *" cdev ", major_t " major );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I cdev
a pointer to a character device switch table,
.BR cdevsw (9),
structure describing the
.I STREAMS
driver from which to remove a major device node.
.IP
.I major
the major device number of the node to remove.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
locates the major device node,
.IR major ,
.I STREAMS
driver specified by
.I cdev
that was registered using
.BR register_cmajor (9),
and calls
.BR unregister_xinode ()
for that device node.
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
then frees the memory associated with the
.BR devnode (9)
structure that was allocated by the call
to
.BR register_cmajor (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
This is probably not the function that you want.  See
.BR unregister_strdev (9).
.PP
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
is called automatically by
.BR unregister_strdev (9)
to unregister a major device number
in the
external
file system for every
.I STREAMS
device driver unregistering.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
returns zero
.RB ( 0 );
upon failure, a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
fails, it returns an appropriate negative error number as follows:
.TP \w'[\fBEWOULDBLOCK\fR]\(en'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.PP
In addition,
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
can return any error number returned by
.BR unregister_xinode ().
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
is intended to be called from a blockable process context during just prior to the unloading of a
.I STREAMS
kernel module and as part of the deallocation of that kernel module.
It may also be called at blockable process context as part of a
.IR qi_qclose (9)
routine.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
is MP-safe when called from the proper context.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
is a convenience function that simply locates the
.BR devnode (9)
structure,
and unregisters it with
.BR unregister_xinode ().
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
is an internal
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation specific
function that is not intended to be used directly by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.  This is certainly not the utility you need: see
.BR unregister_strdev (9).
.PP
Loadable kernel modules that call
.BR register_cmajor (9)
when loading must call
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
before unloading.
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
must be called with the same arguments with which the corresponding
.BR register_cmajor (9)
was called.
.PP
Drivers unregistered with
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
will no longer appear as a directory in the
.B /dev/streams/
directory, visible when the
.BR specfs (5)
file system has been mounted on
.BR /dev/streams.
.PP
If you use
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
from outside of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package, your code may break on the next release.
Do not use
.BR unregister_cmajor ():
use
.BR unregister_strdev (9)
or
.BR unregister_strnod (9)
instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cdevsw (9),
.BR register_cmajor (9),
.BR unregister_strnod (9),
.BR devnode (9),
.BR unregister_strdev (9),
.BR specfs (5),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.BR unregister_strnod (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation specific function with support for the mountable
.BR specfs (5)
file system.  Registration of
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules is inherently implementation specific and non-portable.
Different implementations provide different mechanisms.
Additional mechanisms are provided that are
compatible with other implementations.
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Registration and de-registration of
.I STREAMS
drivers is implementation specific and not subject to standardization.
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation specific function.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR unregister_cmajor ()
first appeared in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
