'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: unregister_strdev.9.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:38:58 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:38:58 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: unregister_strdev.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:38:58  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH UNREGISTER_STRDEV 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B unregister_strdev
\- unregister a \fISTREAMS\fR device
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strconf.h>
.HP
.BI "unregister_strdev(struct cdevsw *" cdev ", major_t " major );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'major\(em'u
.I cdev
a pointer to a
.BR cdevsw (9)
structure indicating the characteristics for the driver.
All members of the
.BR cdevsw (9)
structure, pointed to by
.IR cdev ,
are significant.
.I cdev
must point to a 
.BR cdevsw (9)
structure previously registered with
.BR register_strdev (9).
.TP
.I major
the (external) character major device number to unregister, or zero (0),
indicating that all registered character major device numbers for this driver
are to be unregistered.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR unregister_strdev ()
deregisters the
.I STREAMS
device described by the
.BR cdevsw (9)
structure,
.IR cdev ,
from the character major device number specified by
.IR major .
.PP
.I major
can also be set to zero (0)
to indicate that the
.I STREAMS
executive should unregister all character major device numbers currently
associated with the
.I STREAMS
device,
.IR cdev .
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR unregister_strdev ()
can be called multiple times for the same device driver with different
selections of the
.I major
device number.  This has the effect that multiple (external) character major
device numbers will be disassociated with the
.I STREAMS
device.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR unregister_strdev ()
unregisters the
.I STREAMS
driver described by
.I cdev
and returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR unregister_strdev ()
does not effect unregistration and returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR unregister_strdev ()
fails to unregister the specified
.I STREAMS
driver, it returns an appropriate negative error number as follows:
.TP \w'[ENOMEM]\(em'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I cdev
was
.BR NULL ,
or the
.BR cdevsw (9)
structure referenced contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I major
is invalid
.RB ( ">= MAX_CHRDEV" ).
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I cdev
does not reference a registered
.I STREAMS
driver.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I major
is not registered to a device.
.TP
.RB [ EPERM ]
.I major
is registered to a driver other than that referenced by
.IR cdev .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR unregister_strdev ()
can be called from any blocking context.  Consideration for import on
performance and latency should be given before calling
.BR unregister_strdev ()
from soft or hard interrupt context.  Typically,
.BR unregister_strdev ()
is called from the
.BR module_exit (9)
procedure of a kernel module associated with a
.I STREAMS
device.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR unregister_strdev ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Loadable kernel modules that call
.BR regsiter_strdev (9)
when loading must call
.BR unregister_strdev ()
before unloading.
.BR unregister_strdev ()
must be called with the same value of
.I cdev
with which
.BR register_strdev (9)
was called.
.PP
Drivers unregistered with
.BR unregister_strdev ()
will no longer appear in
.BR /proc/streams/devices .
.PP
Drivers unregistered with
.BR unregister_strdev ()
will also disappear as a device directory in
.BR /dev/streams ,
when the
.BR specfs (5)
filesystem has been mounted on
.BR /dev/streams .
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR register_strdev (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR unregister_strdev ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR unregister_strdev ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
implementation specific function.  Registration of
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules is inherently implementation specific and non-portable.
Different implementation provide different mechanisms.
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for mechanisms compatible with other implementations
and additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Registration and unregistration of
.I STREAMS
drivers is implementation specific and not subject to standardization.
.BR unregister_strdev ()
is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
implementation specific function.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR unregister_strdev ()
first appeared in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
