% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
% vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=100
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: xgcp.texi,v 1.1.2.1 2011-07-18 19:42:12 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
% Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
% Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
% under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
% any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
% Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
% copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
% Documentation License".
%
% Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without
% modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby
% granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
% permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7
% Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
% distribution of this documentation or its contents without specific,
% written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation
% about the suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is
% provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
% 
% Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
% results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
% notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
% (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
% 
% OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
% DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
% FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE
% CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE
% IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY
% PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
% OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
% CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
% USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
% OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
% THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS
% THEREOF.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2011-07-18 19:42:12 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================

\input texinfo
@setfilename xgcp.info
@include ../../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE XOM Gateway Control Protocol (XGCP)
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}

@dircategory OpenSS7
@direntry
* XGCP: (xgcp).				XOM Gateway Control Protocol
@end direntry

@include ../../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE XOM Gateway Control Protocol (XGCP)
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.

@ifinfo
This file provides the @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of the
@cite{@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2011  @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2001  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}.

Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results, provided the printed
document carries copying permission notice identical to this one except for the removal of this
paragraph (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT
THE CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN
NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
@end ifinfo

@include ../../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE XOM Gateway Control Protocol (XGCP)
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification

@set PART Gateway Control Protocol
@set LONG Gateway Control Protocol
@set SHORT GCP
@set INTERFACE GCP

@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_PDATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Distributed with Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@sp 2
@subtitle Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited
@subtitle All Rights Reserved.
@sp 4
@quotation
@chapheading Abstract:
This document is a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} containing technical details concerning the implementation of
the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} for OpenSS7.  It contains recommendations on software architecture as well
as platform and system applicability of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  It provides abstraction of the
@value{LONG} (@value{SHORT}) interface to these components as well as providing a basis for
@value{LONG} control for other @value{LONG} protocols.
@end quotation
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

@chapheading Published by:

@sp 1

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2011  @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*

@noindent
All Rights Reserved.

@sp 1

@noindent
Unauthorized distribution or duplication is prohibited.

@sp 1

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}.

@noindent
Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@chapheading Notice:

@noindent
@strong{OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all
implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title;
that the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.}

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@iftex
@headings off
@everyheading @thistitle @| @thisfile @| @thischaptername
@evenheading @thischapter @| @| @thisfile
@oddheading @thistitle @| @| @thischaptername
@everyfooting Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL} @| @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @thispage
@evenfooting @thispage @| @| Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@oddfooting @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @| @thispage
@end iftex
@page

@c Define an index of primitives
@defcodeindex pr
@c Define an index of primitive values
@defcodeindex pv
@c Define an index of primitive error values
@defcodeindex pe
@c Define an index of protocol states
@defcodeindex st
@c Define an index of input-output controls
@defcodeindex ct
@c Define an index of manual pages.
@defcodeindex mp
@c Define an index of MIB objects.
@defcodeindex mo

@c frags out automake
@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for text, html and info
@syncodeindex pr cp
@syncodeindex pv cp
@syncodeindex pe cp
@syncodeindex st cp
@syncodeindex mp cp
@syncodeindex tp cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex ct cp
@syncodeindex mo cp
@c @end ifnottex

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi
@include texi/prims.texi

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@heading About This Manual
This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of
@cite{The @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version
@value{PACKAGE_VERSION} release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL} of the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Preface::
* Introduction::
* C Language Binding::
* Description::
* Packages::
* Interface Functions::
* Interface Class Definitions::
* Errors::
* C Headers::
* Examples::
* Glossary::
* Licenses::
* Index::
@end menu

@iftex
@c insert list of figures and tables for printed manuals
@page
@heading List of Figures
@listoffloats Figure
@page
@heading List of Tables
@listoffloats Table
@end iftex

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@section Notice

Software in this document and related software is released under the AGPL (@pxref{GNU Affero General
Public License}).  Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for some of the
manual package and some of the documentation.  Consult permission notices contained in the
documentation of those components for more information.

This document is released under the FDL (@pxref{GNU Free Documentation License}) with no invariant
sections, no front-cover texts and no back-cover texts.

@section Abstract

This document is a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} containing technical details concerning the implementation of
the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} for OpenSS7.  It contains recommendations on software architecture as well
as platform and system applicability of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

@noindent
This document specifies a @value{MANUAL_TITLE} Specification in support of the OpenSS7 @value{LONG}
(@value{SHORT}) protocol stacks.  It provides abstraction of the @value{PART} interface to these
components as well as providing a basis for @value{PART} control for other @value{PART} protocols.

@subsection Purpose
@cpindex STREAMS

The purpose of this document is to provide technical documentation of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.
This document is intended to be included with the OpenSS7 @acronym{STREAMS} software package released
by @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation}.  It is intended to assist software developers, maintainers and users
of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} with understanding the software architecture and technical interfaces
that are made available in the software package.

@subsection Intent

It is the intent of this document that it act as the primary source of information concerning the
@value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  This document is intended to provide information for writers of OpenSS7
@value{MANUAL_TITLE} applications as well as writers of OpenSS7 @value{MANUAL_TITLE} Users.

@subsection Audience

The audience for this document is software developers, maintainers and users and integrators of the
@value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  The target audience is developers and users of the OpenSS7 SS7 stack.

@section Revision History

Take care that you are working with a current version of this documentation: you will not be
notified of updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current version, check the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7 Project} website for a current version.

A current version of this specification is normally distributed with the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package, @file{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}}.@footnote{@url{http://www.openss7.org/repos/tarballs/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2}}

@subsection Version Control

@noindent
Although the author has attempted to ensure that the information in this document is complete and
correct, neither the Author nor OpenSS7 Corporation will take any responsibility in it.
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} is making this documentation available as a reference point for the
industry.  While @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} believes that these interfaces are well defined in this
release of the document, minor changes may be made prior to products conforming to the interfaces
being made available.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise this software and
documentation for any reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by
various agencies, utilization of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of
changes in the design of any techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@smallexample
@verbatim
$Log: xgcp.texi,v $
Revision 1.1.2.1  2011-07-18 19:42:12  brian
- added documentation

Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:21:48  brian
- updated manuals

Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:58:46  brian
- added files to new distro

@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@section ISO 9000 Compliance

Only the @TeX{}, texinfo, or roff source for this maual is controlled.  An opaque (printed,
postscript or portable document format) version of this manual is a @strong{UNCONTROLLED VERSION}.

@subsection Disclaimer

@noindent
@strong{@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation
including all implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose,
non-infrincement, or title; that the contents of the manual are suitable for any purpose, or that
the implementation of such contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights,
trademarks or other rights.  In no event shall @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} be liable for any direct,
indirect, special or consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use,
data or profits, whether in an action or contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out
of or in connection with any use of this documentation or the performance or implementation of the
contents thereof.}

@subsection U.S. Government Restricted Rights

If you are licensing this Software on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it is
classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to
the Federal Aquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government is
acquiring only the license rights granded herein (the license rights customarily provided to
non-Government users).  If the Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other
than DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights in the
Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any
successor regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplerment
to the FAR (or any successor regulations).

@section Acknowledgements

@url{http://www.openss7.org/,The OpenSS7 Project} was funded in part by:

@itemize @bullet
@item @url{http://www.monavacon.com/,Monavacon Limited}
@item @url{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation}
@end itemize

Thanks to the subscribers to and sponsors of @url{http://www.openss7.org/, The OpenSS7 Project}.
Without their support, open software like this would not be possible.

As with most open source projects, this project would not have been possible without the valiant
efforts and productive software of the @url{http://www.fsf.org/,Free Software Foundation}, the
@url{http://www.kernel.org/,Linux Kernel Community}, and the open source software movement at large.

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@cpindex STREAMS

@menu
* Overview::
* Format of the Specification::
* Introductory Concepts::
* Relationship to MGCP and MEGACO/H.248 GCP::
* Relationship to Data Abstraction Services::
* Mandatory and Optional Features::
* Interface Packages::
* Terminology::
* Abbreviations::
@end menu

@ignore
@quotation
At the time of this writing, MGCP is an IETF draft.  It may never be ratified as is by the IETF.
Instead, a more advanced derivative protocol called MEGACO will probably be the ultimate solution.
However, marked demand has encouraged several vendors (including Cisco Systems) to announce support
for MGCP in pre-standard form.  This has created the situation of a de facto standard with
interoperability demonstrations amoung various vendors.  This is generally good for the market
because it has resulted in products with real customer value from various vendors.

As with most standards, MGCP has a colorful history.  Initially, a client/server protocol called
Simple Gateway Control Protocol was proposed jointly by Bellcore (now Telcordia) and Cisco Systems.
This was the first step toward a truly stateless client.  During the same period, another
client/server protocol, called Internet Protocol Device Control (IPDC), was being developed by Level
3 in conjunction with Cisco Systems and other vendors.  IPDC was conceived as a more generic control
system for various IP multimedia devices.  As the two protocols matured in the standards committees,
they eventually merged to form MGCP.
@end quotation
@end ignore

@node Overview
@section Overview

The XOM Gateway Control Protocol Programming Interface (abbreviated XGCP) defines an Application
Program Interface (API) to gateway control services.  It is referred to as @dfn{the interface}
throughout this specification.

The interface is designed to offer services that are consistent with, but not limited to, the
Telcordia, Level 3 and Cisco RFC 2705 MGCP Version 1.0, the IETF MEGACO Version 2.0, the ITU-T
Recommendation H.248 GCP Version 2.0, and the ITU-T Recommendation H.248 GCP Version 3.0 standards.
These standards have been published starting in 1999 and have been stable for many years.  The ITU-T
Recommendation H.248 GCP Version 3.0 was last updated in 2005.

The interface is also designed to offer services that are consistent with various packages provided
by MGCP, MEGACO and H.248.

All of the above standards are referred to in this document as @dfn{the Standards}.

Access to other gateway control services through the API is not prohibited, but has not been
explicitly considered.

The interface is designed to be used and implemented in conjunction with the use and implementation
of the general-purpose XOM API (reference @b{XOM}).

A breif introduction to Gateway Control Services is given in @ref{Introductory Concepts}.
Following this is an overview of the OSI-Abstract-DATA Manipulation OM, which provides the Data
Abstraction service as defined in the XOM specification (reference @b{XOM}).  Then the optional
features of this specification are described, and the chapter closes with a list of abbreviations.
In all cases the reader should refer to the Standards (reference @b{MGCP}, reference @b{MEGACO},
reference @b{H.248}), or to the XOM Specifications (reference @b{XOM}) for further authoritative
details.

The structure of the remaining chapters and appendices are described in the @ref{Preface}.

@node Format of the Specification
@section Format of the Specification

This specification described a programming language-independent interface to the Gateway Control
Services together with a specific `C' language binding of that interface.  Several conventions
are used to identify particular items.  The general conventions are described in the @ref{Preface},
while the `C' language binding conventions are described in @ref{C Language Binding}.

@node Introductory Concepts
@section Introductory Concepts

@menu
* Relationship to GCP Protocols::
* XGCP and the GCP Provider::
@end menu

@node Relationship to GCP Protocols
@subsection Relationship to GCP Protocols

The interaction between gateway control programs acting in a gateway control entity role are
realized through the exchange of gateway control service information.  The general communications
service for gateway control is the @dfn{Gateway Control Protocol}.  GCP defines the following
operations:

@multitable @columnfractions .5 .5
@item @b{Service} @tab @b{Type}
@end multitable

This communication may be accomplished using the MGCP, MEGACO or H.248 protocol.

@node XGCP and the GCP Provider
@subsection XGCP and the GCP Provider

The XGCP interface provides access to the GCP service provider, which offers all of the facilities
defined in the Standards.  It also provides facilities such as @dfn{Automatic Association
Management}, @dfn{Automatic Message Handling} and @dfn{Automatic Dialog Handling}.  The
interface is designed not to restrict the services offered to those of specific service packages of
the H.248 protocol or any given profile of packages.

The interface defined in this specification is ``symmetrical'' in the sense that it can be used to
implement gateway control programs acting in any of the GCP producer or consumer roles (e.g. MGC,
MG, CA, S-SBG, D-SBG).  The interface supports:

@itemize
@item a gateway control program acting as a consumer of gateway control services.  This is done by
submitting service operation requests and receiving service operation responses.
@item a gateway control program acting as a producer of gateway control services.  This is done be
receiving service operation requests and sending back service operation responses.
@end itemize

The interface provides the ability to send @dfn{requests} on the consumer side and to receive
@dfn{indications} on the producer side within a gateway control service interaction.  Furthermore,
if the service is confirmed, the producer will be able to send back @dfn{responses} that will be
received as @dfn{confirmations} by the consumer.

@node Relationship to MGCP and MEGACO/H.248 GCP
@section Relationship to MGCP and MEGACO/H.248 GCP

The API is essentially based on the abstract services of MGCP and MEGACO/H.248, bit is independent
of the underlying communications stack.  The API allows the manipulation of ITU-T and pre-standard
gateway control protocol service information.  Thus this API does not preclude and does not force
the use of either the MGCP pre-standard protocol or the MEGACO/H.248 standard protocol (of any
version).

The XGCP API offers three abstract gateway control service views: that of MGCP Version
1.0, MEGACO Version 2.0, and H.248 GCP Version 3.0.

The contents of the MGCP messages are described in RFC 2705.  These messages implicitly define MGCP
GCP services.  The mapping between MGCP GCP services and various service primitives and parameters
of the XGCP API are described below.

The services offered by the XGCP API are a superset of those defined by MGCP, MEGACO and H.248 GCP.
The general communications protocol for each is the User Datagram Protocol (UDP) or the Stream
Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) defined by the IETF.

The three abstract gateway control view of XGCP (MGCP, MEGACO and H.248) are independent of the
underlying protocol.

@node Relationship to Data Abstraction Services
@section Relationship to Data Abstraction Services

XGCP is dependent on standard data abstraction services to ensure portability of application
software written to the XGCP specification.  XGCP functions pass most arguments by reference.  The
data referenced by these arguments is modelled and manipulated in an object-oriented fashion.
gateway control data abstraction services are provided by the XOM API (reference @b{XOM}).

The definitions below introduce various concepts that are used by Gateway Control data abstraction
service.

@table @dfn
@item Syntax
A @dfn{syntax} is the classification and representation of values in OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation.
Examples of syntaxes are @i{Boolean}, @i{Integer}, @i{Real}, @i{String(Octet)},
@i{String(Object-Identifier)} and @i{Object}.

@item Value
A @dfn{value} is a single datum, or piece of information.  A value may be as simple as a Boolean
value (for example, @i{True}), or as complicated as an entire OM object (for example, a
@i{Message}).

@item OM Attribute
An @dfn{OM attribute type} is an arbitrary category into which a specification places some values.
An @dfn{OM attribute} is an OM Attribute Type, together with an ordered sequence of one or more
values.  The OM Attribute Type can be thought of as the name of the OM attribute.

@item OM Object
An @dfn{OM object} is a collection of OM attributes.

@item OM Class
An @dfn{OM class} is a category of OM objects set out in a specification.  It determines the OM
attributes that may be present in the OM object, and details the constraints on those OM attributes.

@item Package
A @dfn{Package} is a set of OM classes that are grouped together by the specification, because tey
are functionally related (for example, GSM service package).

@item Package Closure
A @dfn{Package-Closure} is the set of classes that need to be supported to be able to create all
possible instances of all classes defined in the package.  Thus an OM Class may be defined to have
an OM Attribute whose value is an OM Obejct of an OM Class that is defined in some other package,
but within the same @dfn{Package-Closure}.

@item Workspace
A @dfn{workspace} is allocated storage that contains one or more @dfn{Package-Closures}, together
with an implementation of the Gateway Control data abstraction services, that supports all the OM
classes of OM objects in the @dfn{Package-Closures}.

@item Descriptor
A @dfn{descriptor} is a defined data structure that is used to represent an OM Attribute Type and a
single value.  The structure has three components: a type, a syntax and a value.

@item Public Object
@dfn{Public Objects} are represented by data structures that are manipulated directly using
programming language constructs.  Use of Public Objects therefore simplifies programming by this
direct access and by enabling objects to be statically defined, when appropriate.  Programs can
efficiently access public objects.

@item Private Objects
@dfn{Private Objects} are held in data structures that are private to the service and can only be
accessed from programs indirectly using interface functions.  They are of particular use for
structures that are infrequently manipulated by programs, being passed by reference to the service,
which can then manipulate them efficiently.  An example of such objects in XGCP is the @i{session}
object.
@end table

@node Mandatory and Optional Features
@section Mandatory and Optional Features

The interface defines an Application Program Interface (API) that application programs can use to
access the functionality of the underlying Gateway Control Services.  The interface does not
define or imply any profile of that service.

Note that nothing in this specification requires that the implementation of the interface or the
Gateway Control Services itself actually makes use of UDP or SCTP or other parts of the model, just
so long as it provides the defined service.  Also, the @emph{scope} of the Gateway Control Services
to which an application has access is not determined; it is not restricted to H.248 GCP operations.

Some OM attributes are optional: these are marked @emph{(Optional Functionality)} in the OM class
definitions.  They are:

@itemize @bullet
@item @b{File-Descriptor} in a @b{Session} object.
@end itemize

Some items of behaviour of the interface and a number of aspects of the Gateway Control Services
provider are implementation-defined.  These are:

@itemize
@item the maximum number of outstanding asynchronous operations
@item whether an asynchronous function call returns before the operation is submitted to the Gateway
Control Services provider
@item the text and language of error messages
@item the OM classes permitted as values of the
@c @b{Name},
@b{Address} and @b{Title} argument to
interface functions.
@end itemize

The default values of some OM attributes on OM object @b{Session} are locally administered.

This API assumes the provision of @dfn{Automatic Association Management}, @dfn{Automatic Message
Handling} and @dfn{Automatic Dialog Handling} by the GCP provider.

The interface enables negotiation of the use of the various defined features of the GCP provider and
those of the interface.

@node Packages
@section Packages

The specification defines several Gateway Control packages (Common GCP package, MGCP package, MEGACO
package, and H.248 package), @ref{Interface Packages}.  These packages define the OM classes
required by the interface functions to perform GCP services.  The common GCP package, which also
includes the errors defined (@pxref{Errors}), is mandatory.  The MGCP, MEGACO and H.248 packages are
optional, but at least one of them must be supported by the implementation.  The different service
views assume the support of the corresponding GCP package by the implementation.

The use of the optional packages is negotiated using the @command{Negotiate()} function.

@node Terminology
@section Terminology

The terms @dfn{implementation-defined}, @dfn{may}, @dfn{should}, @dfn{undefined}, @dfn{unspecified},
and @dfn{will} are used in this document with the meanings ascribed to them in reference @b{XPG4},
see also @ref{Glossary}.

@node Abbreviations
@section Abbreviations

@multitable @columnfractions .1 .9
@item API @tab Application Program Interface
@item ASN.1 @tab Abstract Syntax Notation One
@item ANSI @tab American National Standards Institute
@c @item AVA @tab Attribute Value Assertion
@item BER @tab Basic Encoding Rules
@item GSM @tab Global Services Mobile
@item ISO @tab International Organisation for Standardisation
@item ITU-T @tab International Telecommunications Union - Telecom Sector
@item MAP @tab Mobile Application Part
@item OM @tab OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation
@item OSI @tab Open Systems Interconnect
@item ROSE @tab Remote Operations Service Element
@item TCAP @tab Transaction Capabilities Application Part
@item XMAP @tab XOM Mobile Application Part API
@item XOM @tab X/Open: OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation API
@end multitable

@node C Language Binding
@chapter C Language Binding

@menu
* C Naming Conventions::
* Use and Implementation of Interfaces::
* Function Return Values::
* Compilation and Linking::
@end menu

This chapter sets out certain characteristics of the C language binding to the interface.  The
binding specifies C identifiers for all the elements of the interface, so that application programs
written in C can access the Gateway Control Services.  These elements include function names,
@var{typedef} names and constants.  All of the C identifiers are mechanically derived from the
language independent names as explained below.  There is a complete list of all the identifiers in
@ref{C Headers}.  For ease of use, some of these identifiers are defined in the specification
alongside the language-independent name.

A @i{Function()} is indicated as shown.

A @pval{CONSTANT} is in Roman font.

The names of @perr{ERRORS} and other return codes are surrounded by square brackets.

The definitions of the C identifiers appear in four headers:

@ftable @b
@item <xom.h>
This header file contains definitions for the associated OM interface.
@item <xgcp.h>
This header file contains common definitions for the access to the Gateway Control Protocol service
(see @ref{Interface Functions}, and @ref{Common MAP Package}).  A listing of this header file is
provided in @ref{xgcp.h}.
@item <xmap_mgcp.h>
This header file contains specific definitions that reflect the Abstract Services of the MGCP
Gateway Control Services along with the ASN.1 productions of the related protocol (MGCP),
@xref{MGCP Package}.
A listing of this header file is provided in @ref{xmap_mgcp.h}.
@item <xmap_megaco.h>
This header file contains specific definitions that reflect the Abstract Services of the MEGACO
Gateway Control Services along with the ASN.1 productions of the related protocol (MEGACO),
@xref{MEGACO Package}.  A listing of this header file is provided in @ref{xmap_megaco.h}.
@item <xmap_h248.h>
This header file contains specific definitions that reflect the Abstract Services of the H.248
Gateway Control Services along with the ASN.1 productions of the related protocol (H.248),
@xref{H.248 Package}.  A listing of this header file is provided in @ref{xmap_h248.h}.
@item <xmap_gsm_sm.h>
This header file contains specific definitions that reflect the Short Message GSM services along
with ASN.1 productions of the related services (GSM MAP Short Message services), @xref{GSM Short
Message Service Package}.  A listing of this header file is provided in @ref{xmap_gsm_sm.h}.
@end ftable

@node C Naming Conventions
@section C Naming Conventions

The interfaces uses part of the `C' public namespace for its facilities.  All identifiers start with
the letters gcp, GCP or OGCP, and more detail of the conventions used are given in the following
table.  Note that the interface reserves @emph{all} identifiers starting with the letters @var{gcpP}
for private (i.e. internal) use by implementations of the interface.  It also reserves @emph{all}
identifiers starting with the letters @var{gcpX} or @var{GCPX} for vendor-specific extensions of the
interface.  Application programmers should not use any identifier starting with these letters.

The OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation API uses similar, though not identical, naming conventions, that
are described in XOM (reference @b{XOM}).  All its identifiers are prefixes by the letters @var{OM} or
@var{om}.

@multitable @columnfractions .5 .2
@item reserved for implementors @tab @var{gcpP}
@item reserved for interface extensions @tab @var{gcpX}
@item reserved for interface extensions @tab @var{GCPX}
@item reserved for implementors @tab @var{OGCP}
@item @tab
@item functions @tab @var{gcp_}
@item error problem values @tab @var{GCP_E_}
@item enumeration tags (except errors) @tab @var{GCP_T_}
@item OM class names @tab @var{GCP_C_}
@item OM value length limits @tab @var{GCP_VL_}
@item OM value number limits @tab @var{GCP_VN_}
@item other constants @tab @var{GCP_}
@end multitable

A complete list of all identifiers used (except those beginning @var{gcpP}, @var{gcpX}, @var{GCPX}
or @var{OGCP}) is given in @ref{C Headers}.  No implementation of the interface will use any other
public identifiers.  A @dfn{public identifier} is any name except those reserved in section 4.1.2.1
of the ISO C Standard, and the @dfn{public namespace} is the set of all possible public identifiers.

The C identifiers are derived from the language-independent names used throughput this
specification by a purely mechanical process which depends on the kind of name:

@itemize @bullet
@item Interface function names are made entirely lower-case and prefixed by @var{gcp_}.  Thus
@b{Service-Req()} becomes @command{gcp_service_req()}.

@item C function parameters are derived from the argument and result names by making them entirely
lower-case.  In addition, the names of results have @var{_return} added as a suffix.  Thus the
argument @b{Session} becomes @var{session}, while the result of @b{Result} becomes
@var{result_return}.

@item OM class names are made entirely upper-case and prefixed by @var{GCP_C_}.  Thus
@b{Service-Argument} becomes @var{GCP_C_SERVICE_ARGUMENT}.  Note that the symbolic OM class names
are strictly those used in the abstract syntax ASN.1 of the TCAP and GCP with the exception that
names containing multiple words are separated by hyphens.

@item Enumeration tags are derived from the name of the corresponding OM type and syntax by
prefixing @var{GCP_}.  The case of letters is left unchanged.  Thus @b{Enum(User-reason)}
befomes @var{GCP_User_reason}.

@item Enumeration constants, except erros, are made entirely upper-case and prefixed by @var{GCP_T_}.
Thus @b{resource-limitation} becomes @var{GCP_T_RESOURCE_LIMITATION}.

@item The name of an OM attribute is local to its OM class, that measn the same name of an OM
attribute may appear in different OM classes, for example, OM attribute @b{application-Context} is
defined in both OM classes @b{Open-Arg} and @b{application-Context-List}.  Independent-language
atribute @b{application-Context} appears as @var{GCP_APPLICATION_CONTEXT} in C-language.  Note that
the symbolic OM attribute names are strictly those used in the abstract syntax ASN.1 of the TCAP and
GCP with the exception that names containing multiple words are separated with hyphens.

@item Errors are treated as a special case.  Constants that are the possible values of the OM
attribute @b{Error-Status} of a subclass of the OM class @b{Error} are made entirely upper-case and
prefixed by @var{GCP_E_}.  Thus @b{invalid-session} becomes @var{GCP_E_INVALID_SESSION}.

@item The constants in the @b{Value Length} and @b{Value Number} columns of the OM class definition
tables are also assigned identifiers.  (They have no names in the language-independent
specification.)  Where the upper limit in on eof these columns is not ``1'' (one), it is given a
name consisting of the OM attribute name, prefixed by @var{GCP_VL_} for value length, or
@var{GCP_VN_} for value numbers.

@item The sequence of octets for each object identifier is also assigned an identifier, for internal
use by certain OM macros.  These identifiers are all upper case and are prefixed by @var{OMP_O_}.
See reference @b{XOM} for further details on the use of object identifiers.

Note that hyphens are translated everywhere to underscores.

@end itemize

@node Use and Implementation of Interfaces
@section Use and Implementation of Interfaces

Each of the following statements applies unless explicitly state otherwise in the detailed
descriptions that follow:

If an argument to a function has an invalid value (such as a value outside the domain of the
function, or a pointer outside the address space of the program, or a null pointer), the behaviour
is @dfn{undefined}.

Any function declared in a header may be implemented as a macro defined in the header, so a library
function should not be declared explicitly if its header is included.  Any macro definition of a
function can be suppressed locally be encoding the name of the function in parentheses, because the
name is not then followed by the left parentheses that indicate expansion of a macro function name.
For the same syntactic reason, it is permitted to take the address of a library function even if it
is also defined as a macro.  The use of @command{#undef} to remove any macro definition will also
ensure that an actual function is referred to.  Any invocation of a library function that is
implemented as a macro will expand to code that evaluates each of its arguments exactly once, fully
protected by parentheses where necessary, so it is generally safe to use arbitrary expressions as
arguments.  Likewise, those function-like macros described in the following sections may be invoked
in an expression anywhere a function with a compatible return type could be called.

@node Function Return Values
@section Function Return Values

The return value of a C function is always bound to the result of the language-independent
description.  Functions return a value of @type{GCP_status}, which is an error indication.  If and
only if the function succeeds, its value will be @b{success}, expressed in C by the constant
@var{GCP_SUCCESS}.  If a function returns a status other than this, then it has not updated the
return parameters.  The value of the status, in this case, is an error as described in @ref{Errors}.
In most cases the integer returned in @b{Status} is sufficient for error processing.  However, in a
few cases additional information is available if desired.

Since C does not provide multiple return values, functions must return all other results by writing
into storage passed by the application program.  Any argument that is a pointer to such storage has
a name ending with @var{_return}.  For example, the C parameter declaration @samp{OM_sint
*invoke_id_return} in the @i{Service-Req()} function indicates that the function will return an
signed integer @b{Invoke-Id} as a result, so the actual argument to the function must be the address
of a suitable variable.  This notation allows the reader to distinguish between an input parameter
that happes to be a pointer, and an output parameter where the @key{*} is used to simulate the
semantics of passing by reference.

@node Compilation and Linking
@section Compilation and Linking

All applications programs that use this interface include the @file{<xom.h>} and @file{<xgcp.h>}
headers in that order, and at least one of the @file{<xgcp_mgcp.h>}, @file{<xgcp_megaco.h>} and
@file{<xgcp_h248.h>} headers.

@node Description
@chapter Description

@menu
* Services: Services Description.
* Session: Session Description.
* Context: Context Description.
* Function Arguments::
* Function Results::
* Synchronous and Asynchronous Operation::
* Other Features::
* Function Sequencing::
@end menu

The interface comprises a number of functions together with many OM classes and OM objects that are
used as the arguments and results of the functions.  Both the functions and the OM objects are based
closely on the @dfn{Abstract Service} that is specified in the Standards (references @b{MGCP},
@b{MEGACO} and @b{H.248}).

The interface models gateway control interactions as service requests made through a number of
interface @dfn{functions}, that take a number of input @dfn{arguments}.  Each valid request causes
an @dfn{operation} within the producer that eventually returns a @dfn{status} and any @dfn{result}
of the operation.

All interactions between a Consumer and a Producer belong to a @dfn{session}, that is represented by
an OM object passed as the first argument to most interface functions.

The other arguments to the function include a @dfn{context} and various service-specific arguments.
The @dfn{context} includes a number of parameters that are common to many functions and that seldom
change from operation to operation.

Each of the components of this model is described below, along with other features of the interface
such as asynchronous function calls and security.

@node Services Description
@section Services

@menu
* Negotiation Sequence::
* Names, Addresses and Titles: Names.
@end menu

As mentioned above, the Standards define Abstract Services that Consumers and Producers use.  Each
of these Abstract Services maps to a single function call with the same name.  The services are
@b{Service-req} and @b{Service-rsp}.

@c FIXME more here...

There are three functions called @i{Receive()}, @i{Wait()}, and @i{Abandon()} that have no
counterpart in the Abstract Service.  @i{Receive()} is used to receive indications and results of
asynchronous operations, and is explained in @ref{Interface Functions}.  @i{Wait()} is used to
suspend execution until indications are available for specified sessions.  @i{Abandon()} is used to
abandon locally the result of a pending asynchronous operation.  Two additional functions
@i{Bind()}@footnote{@xref{Bind}.} and @i{Unbind()} are used to open and close a user-session.

There are also other interface specific functions called @i{Get-Assoc-Info()}, @i{Get-Last-Error()},
@i{Validate-object()}, @i{Error-Message()}, @i{Initialize()}, @i{Shutdown()} and @i{Negotiate()}.

The detailed specifications are given in @ref{Interface Functions}.
@ignore
The interface functions are summarized in Table 3.1.  Those interface functions that can execute
asynchronously are indicated by an @samp{a} in the first column.  The function @i{Cancel-req()} can
only be used asynchronously.  An @samp{s} in the second column indicates that the function addresses
the corresponding TCAP, GSM MAP or ANSI MAP service while an @samp{i} references a specific
interface service.
@end ignore

@node Negotiation Sequence
@subsection Negotiation Sequence

The interface has an initialize and shutdown sequence that permits the negotiation of optional
features.   This involves the functions @i{Initialize()}, @i{Negotiate()}, and @i{Shutdown()}.

Every application program must first call @i{Initialize()}, that returns a workspace.  This
workspace supports only the standard common GCP package, @xref{Interface Class Definitions}.

The workspace can be extended to support one of the MGCP, MEGACO or H.248 packages, or any
combination of them (see @ref{Interface Class Definitions}, and any combination of the optional
Gateway Control Services packages), or any vendor extensions.  Vendor extensions may include
additional packages, and may also include additional or modified functionality.  All such packages
or other extensions are identified by means of OSI Object Identifiers, and the Object Identifiers
are supplied to the @i{Negotiate()} function to incorporate the extensions into the workspace.
Features defined by this specification are described and assigned Object Identifiers in
@ref{Interface Functions}.  A feature represents any package or additional or modified functionality
that is subject to negotiation.  The @i{Negotiate()} function allows some particular features to be
made available.

After a workspace with the required features has been negotiated in this way, the application can
use the workspace as required.  It can create and manipulate OM objects using the OM functions, and
can start one or more gateway control sessions using @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}  All the
sessions on a given workspace share the same features.

Eventually, when it has completed its tasks, terminated all its gateway control sessions using
@i{Unbind()}, and released all its OM objects using @i{OM-Delete()}, the application should ensure
that resources associated with the interface are freed by calling @i{Shutdown()}.

A miscellaneous error arise if an attempt is made to use an unavailable feature.  If an instance of
a class that is not in an available package is supplied as a function argument, the @b{bad-class}
error arises.

@node Names
@subsection Names, Addresses and Titles

To address a wide variety of gateway control transport protocols the interface is capable of
accepting various forms of object names, system addresses and program or system titles.

@itemize @bullet

@item @b{Name} is an ``abstract class'' that contains various subclass types used to define specific
systems responsible for producing gateway control services.

@item @b{Address} is an ``abstract class'' that contains various subclass types used to define the
specific location to contact a particular consumer or producer of gateway services.  For example, the
UDP-Address subclass is typically used to define the location of a producer or consumer.

@item @b{Title} is an ``abstract class'' that contains various subclass types used to define a
specific system name responsible for producing gateway control services.

@end itemize

All three abstract classes participate in an implementation-specific name resolution scheme.  It is
assumed that given a @b{Name}, an implementation can determine the @b{Title} responsible for that
@b{Name}.  It is also assumed that given a @b{Title}, an implementation can determine the
@b{Address} of that @b{Title}.@footnote{Note that the way in which these relationships are resolved
is implementation-dependent, but use of DNS should play a significant role.}

The producer of an invoked operation may be explicitly designated at the interface boundary using
the following precedence rules:

@enumerate

@item A default Title or Address may be supplied as parameters to a bound ``session''.  If both are
provided, the implementation will verify that the Title resolves to the Address.

@item If @dfn{Automatic Association Management} is used, a provider Title or Address may be supplied
as parameters within the ``context'' or a specific operation request.  If both are provided, the
implementation will verify that the Title resolves to the Address.  The ``context'' Title or Address
take precedence over the ``session'' Title or Address.  The ``context'' Title or Address takes
precedence over the ``session'' Title or Address for unassociated session objects.

@item A consumer address may be supplied as a parameter within the ``argument'' of a specific
operation request.  The ``argument'' Address take precedence over either the ``session'' Title or
Address or the ``context'' Title or Address.

@item If the producer of an invoked operation is not explicitly designated at the interface
boundary, the implementation will resolve the Name to the appropriate Title or Address.

@end enumerate

@node Session Description
@section Session

@menu
* Association Management::
* Message Handling::
* Dialog Handling::
@end menu

A session identifies to which gateway control entity a particular operation will be sent.  It
contains some @b{Bind-Arguments}, such as the name of the consumer.  The session is passed as the
first argument to most interface functions.

A session is described by an OM object of OM class @b{Session}.@footnote{@xref{Session}.}  It is
created, and appropriate parameter values may be set, using the OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation
functions.  A gateway control session is then started with @i{Bind()} (@pxref{Bind}) and later is
terminated with @i{Unbind()} (@pxref{Unbind}).  A session with default parameters can be started by
passing the constant @b{Default-Session} (@samp{(OM_object)GCP_DEFAULT_SESSION}) as the @b{Session}
argument to @i{Bind()}.  @i{Bind()} must be called before the @b{Session} can be used as an argument
to any other function in the interface.  After @i{Unbind()} has been called, @i{Bind()} must be
called again if another session is to be started using the same session object.

The interface supports multiple concurrent sessions, so that an application implemented as a single
process, such as a service in a client-service model, can interface with the Gateway Control
Services using several identities; and so that a process can interact directly and concurrently with
different gateway control services.

Detailed specifications of the OM class @b{Session} are given in @ref{Session}.

A session can be used either acting as a consumer of gateway control services, or acting as a
producer of gateway control services, or both.

A session can be restricted for use only with a designated program called the responder.  When the
responder is omitted and @dfn{Automatic Association Management} is used, the session can be used to
exchange gateway control service information with all processes.

The responder (title and address) parameters of an opened session, if present, specifies the
producer of the requested operation.  The precedence rules on address and title of the responder are
described in @ref{Names}.

Other OM attributes (vendors' implementation extensions) may be included to specify characteristics
of the underlying protocol used.

There are three aspects of session objects, as follows:
@enumerate
@item A session can have @dfn{Automatic Association Management} enabled or disabled.
@item A session can have @dfn{Automatic Dialog Handling} enabled or disabled.
@item A session can have @dfn{Automatic Message Handling} enabled or disabled.
@end enumerate

These aspects are described in sub-sections below.

@node Association Management
@subsection Association Management

@menu
* AAM Enabled Session::
* AAM Disabled Session::
* Associated Session::
@end menu

@node AAM Enabled Session
@subsubsection AAM Enabled Session

The @b{Session} collects together all the information that described a particular gateway control
interaction.  The parameters that are to control such a session are set up in an instance of this OM
class, which is then passed as an argument to @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}  This sets the OM
attributes that describe the actual characteristics of the session, and starts the session.  Such a
started session can be passed as the first argument to interface functions.

No attribute of a bound or connected session may be changed.  The result of modifying a started
session is unspecified.

Finally, @i{Unbind()} is used to terminate the session, after which the parameters can be modified
and a new session started using the same instance, if required.  Multiple concurrent sessions can be
run, by using multiple instances of this OM class.

A session allows a requesting program (the requester) to exchange gateway control information with
another program designated (the responder) or by default to all programs.

An @dfn{AAM enabled} session thus allows a gateway control entity to access either a portion of the
gateway control services (that is, that are accessible via the designated responder) or all gateway
control services.  In the later case, the producer gateway control entity resolution is performed by
the Gateway Control Service provider, according to the gateway control services invoked.

This type of session object can not be used to receive or send ACSE related primitives or operations
explicitly.  To use ACSE explicitly, see @ref{AAM Disabled Session}.

@node AAM Disabled Session
@subsubsection AAM Disabled Session

A session object can has @dfn{Automatic Association Management (AAM)} disabled when it belongs to a
workspace that has had @dfn{AAM} disabled with @i{Negotiate()}.  Disabling @dfn{AAM} allows the user
to explicitly send and receive underlying transport operations to build and tear down associations.
It gives explicit control over associations to the user.  The Gateway Control Service provider does
not automatically perform any underlying transport operations on behalf of the user.

When the user creates and binds a session object in a workspace with @dfn{AAM} disabled, only the
following attributes within the session object can be specified:

@itemize

@item @var{requester-Address} --- the address (IP address) used by the local gateway control entity
to communicate with remote gateway control entities.  When not specified for MGC entities, the
@var{requester-Title} must resolve to an address (i.e. using DNS).

@item @var{requester-Title} --- the title (host name) used by the local gateway control entity to
communicate with remote gateway control entities.  When not specified for MGC entities, the
@var{requester-Address} must be specified.

@item @var{role} -- the role of the local gateway control entity to be taken in communications with
associated entities.  This can either identify the MGC role or the MG role.

@end itemize

The session object is then passed as an argument to the @i{Bind()} function (@pxref{Bind}) that
binds the session.  This bound session can only used to send underlying transport related operations
and to receive underlying transport related primitives.  The following can be sent/received using
this type of bound session.

@itemize
@item @i{Receive()} (@command{gcp_receive()}/@samp{GCP_TRANSPORT_IND})
@item @i{Receive()} (@command{gcp_receive()}/@samp{GCP_TRANSPORT_CNF})
@item @i{Assoc-req()} (@command{gcp_assoc_req()})
@item @i{Assoc-rsp()} (@command{gcp_assoc_rsp()})
@end itemize

The other attributes that relate to the underlying transport are specified within an
@b{Assoc-Argument} or @b{Assoc-Result} object that is passed to, or returned from, @i{Assoc-req()},
@i{Assoc-rsp()}, or @i{Receive()}.

@node Associated Session
@subsubsection Associated Session

Once a user has created a bound session that has AAM disabled, an association can be created.  An
association is represented by an @dfn{associated} or @dfn{partially associated} session object.  An
@dfn{associated} session is returned as the result of building a new association.  The associated
session is used, like a bound session, by sending an receiving gateway control transaction handling
or service operations.  The major difference is that an associated session object can only be used
to send and receive operations to, or from, a single remote gateway control entity.  After a session
is associated, the user can abort the association, which implicitly unbinds the associated, or
partially associated, session.

The precedence rules for common parameters within the @b{Session} and the @b{Context} objects are
different for associated session objects.  Once a session is in the associated state; the
@var{responder-Address} and @var{responder-Title} cannot be overridden by the context object.

To terminate this type of session, the user should either abort the session, which implicitly
unbinds the session.  If the user unbinds the associated session prior to aborting the association,
the service provider will abort the association.

@node Message Handling
@subsection Message Handling

@menu
* AMH Enabled Session::
* AMH Disabled Session::
* Message Session::
@end menu

@node AMH Enabled Session
@subsubsection AMH Enabled Session

The AMH enabled session allows a gateway control entity to invoke and respond to gateway control
services requests and indications without regard for message handling.  The Gateway Control Services
provider provides all message handling.

This type of session cannot be used to send messages explicitly.  To dispatch messages explicitly,
see @ref{AMH Disabled Session}.

@node AMH Disabled Session
@subsubsection AMH Disabled Session

A session object can have @dfn{Automatic Message Handling} disabled when it belongs to a workspace
that has @dfn{Automatic Message Handling} disabled using the @i{Negotiate()} function.  This allows
the user to explicitly send and receive message handling operations to establish, group and dispatch
messages.  it gives explicit control over messages to the user.  The Gateway Control Service
provider does no message handling operations on behalf of the user.

Oncee the session object is bound (AAM enabled) or associated (AAM disabled) and has AMH disabled,
the session must explicitly issue message handling operations for each gateway control services
transaction.  This bound or associated session can only be used to send message handling primitives.
The following can be sent/received using this type of bound or associated session:

@itemize
@item @i{Receive()} (@command{gcp_receive()}/@samp{GCP_MESSAGE_IND})
@item @i{Send()} (@command{gcp_send()}/@samp{GCP_MESSAGE_REQ})
@end itemize

The other attributes that relate to message handling are specified within the @b{Send-Argument} or
@b{Message-Result} objects that are passed to, or returned from, @i{Send()} or @i{Receive()}.

@node Message Session
@subsubsection Message Session

Once a user has created a bound or associated session that has AMH disabled, a message can be
created.  A message is represented by a @dfn{fully formed}, or @dfn{partially formed} @dfn{message},
session obejct.  A @dfn{message} session is returned as the result of building a new message.  The
message session is used, like a bound or associated session, by sending and receiving gateway
control service operations.  The major difference is that a message session object can only be used
to send and receive operations within a single message with a single remote gateway control entity.
After a session forms a message, the user can close or abort the message, which returns the session
to the bound or associated state.

The precedence rules for common parameters within the @b{Session} and the @b{Context} objects are
different for message session objects.  Once a session has formed a message, the message related
argument, @var{application-Context-Name}, cannot be overridden by the context object.

To terminate this type of session, the user should either abort or close the message, which
implicitly unbinds the session.  If the user unbinds the message session prior to either closing or
aborting the message, the service provider will first attempt to close the message, and if that is
rejected, will abort the message.

@node Dialog Handling
@subsection Dialog Handling

@menu
* ADH Enabled Session::
* ADH Disabled Session::
* Dialog Session::
@end menu

MGCP only permits one service request or response per message.  For MGCP dialog handling is trivial
and can be handled automatically by the Gateway Control Service provider.

MEGACO and H.248, on the other hand, permit multiple commands within multiple communications
contexts per transaction (where each transaction is essentially a dialogue).  Actions or commands
that are send within a transaction are executed in sequential order, where the first action or
command must be completed before the next action or command is initiated.  There is no guarantee of
synchronization or timing between actions or commands that are placed in separate transactions.
Therefore, for actions or commands that must be executed in order, there are two approaches from an
API perspective:

@enumerate

@item Issue the commands or actions in separate transactions; however, do not issue a subsequent
action or command until the response to the preceding action or command has been received.  Actions
or commands can be issued synchronously or asynchronously, without affecting the sequence of events,
just allowing the calling process to proceed and do other things awaiting message receipt.

@item Collect the commands or actions into a single transaction.

@end enumerate

Note that the first method is the only method applicable to MGCP because MGCP does not permit
actions or commands to be grouped into transactions: there is imply one action per message.  This
does not cause any logical difficulties for MGCP with the minor exception that if a message is lost,
a noticeable delay might occur between actions or commands.@footnote{In practise, MGC and MG
equipment is often collocated or not very distant and is connected by clean, high bandwidth
connections.}

In general, the Gateway Control Services provider acting on behalf of a service invoker can select
the mosts appropriate approach from those outlined above and made possible by the Standards;
however, the XGCP interface requires a mechanism for communicating which actions or commands depend
upon which others, and whether the remainder of the sequence be encountered should an error be
encountered for one of the actions or commands in the sequence.

To distinguish groupings of actions or commands, actions or commands can be grouped into dialogues.
Dialogues are a sequence of operations the form a unit.  They are directly related to
`transactions' in ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 (09/2005).

@node ADH Enabled Session
@subsubsection ADH Enabled Session

A session object has @dfn{Automatic Dialog Handling (ADH)} enabled by default, or when it belongs to
a workspace that has had @dfn{ADH} disabled using the @i{Negotiate()} function.  The @dfn{ADH}
enabled session allows a gateway control entity to invoke and respond to gateway control services
requests and indications without regards for dialog handling.  The Gateway Control Services
provider provides all dialog handling.

This type of session cannot be used to send dialog handling primitives or operations explicitly.  To
use dialog handling explicitly, see @ref{ADH Disabled Session}.

@node ADH Disabled Session
@subsubsection ADH Disabled Session

A session object has @dfn{Automatic Dialog Handling (ADH)} disabled when it belongs to a workspace
that has had @dfn{ADH} disabled using the @i{Negotiate()} function.

This allows the user to explicitly send and receive transaction handling operations to establish,
group and dispatch transactions.  It gives explicit control over transactions to the user.  The
Gateway Control Service provider does no transaction handling operations on behalf of the user.

Once the session object is bound (AAM enabled) or associated (AAM disabled) and has ADH disabled,
the session must explicitly issue transaction handling operations for each gateway control services
request or response.  This bound or associated session can only be used to send transaction handling
primitives.  The following can be sent/received using this type of bound or associated session:

@itemize
@item @i{Receive()} (@command{gcp_receive()}/@samp{GCP_OPEN_IND})
@item @i{Receive()} (@command{gcp_receive()}/@samp{GCP_ACCEPT_CNF})
@item @i{Receive()} (@command{gcp_receive()}/@samp{GCP_REFUSE_CNF})
@item @i{Open()} (@command{gcp_open()}) @xref{Open}.
@item @i{Accept()} (@command{gcp_accept()}) @xref{Accept}.
@item @i{Refuse()} (@command{gcp_refuse()}) @xref{Refuse}.
@end itemize

The other attributes that relate to transaction handling are specified within the @b{Open-Argument},
@b{Accept-Result} or @b{Refuse-Result} objects that are passed to, or returned from, @i{Open()},
@i{Accept()}, @i{Refuse()}, or @i{Receive()}.

@node Dialog Session
@subsubsection Dialog Session

Once a user has created a bound or associated session that has ADH disabled, a transaction can be
created.  A transaction is represented by a @dfn{fully formed}, or @dfn{partially formed}
@dfn{transaction}, session object.  A @dfn{transaction} session is returned as the result of
building a new transaction.  The transaction session is used, like a bound or associated session, by
sending and receiving gateway control service operations.  The major difference is that a
transaction session object can only be used to send and receive operations within a single
transaction with a single remote gateway control entity.  After a session forms a transaction, the
user can close or abort the transaction, which returns the session to the bound or associated state.

The precedence rules for common parameters within the @b{Session} and the @b{Context} objects are
different for transaction session objects.  Once a session has formed a transaction, the transaction
related argument, @var{application-Context-Name}, cannot be overridden by the context object.

To terminate this type of session, the user should either abort or close the transaction, which
implicitly unbinds the session.  If the user unbinds the transaction session prior to either closing
or aborting the transaction, the service provider will first attempt to close the transaction, and
if that is rejected, will abort the transaction.

@node Context Description
@section Context

The context defines the characteristics of the gateway control interaction that are specific to a
particular gateway control operation, but are often used unchanged for many operations.  Since the
parameters are presumed to be relatively static for a given user during a particular gateway control
interaction, these arguments are collected into an OM object of OM class @b{Context}, which is
supplied as the second argument of each gateway control operation.  This serves to reduce the number
of arguments passed to each function.


The context includes various administrative details, such as the @i{mode} defined in the Abstract
Service, which affects the processing of each gateway control operation.  These include a number of
@i{Service Controls} and @i{Local Controls} that allow control over some aspects of the operation.
The @i{Service Controls} include @b{mode}, @b{responder-Address}, and @b{responder-Title}.  The
@i{Local Controls} include @b{asynchronous}, @b{reply-Limit}, @b{time-Limit}.  Each of these is
mapped onto an OM attribute in the @b{Context}, and they are detailed in @ref{Interface Class
Definitions}.

The effect is as if they were passed as a group of additional arguments on every function call.  The
value of each component of the context is determined when the interface function is called, and
remains fixed throughout the operation.

The precedence rules on address and title of the responder are described in @ref{Names}.

Some of the OM attributes in the @b{Context} have default values, some of which are locally
administered.  The constant @b{Default-Context} (@samp{GCP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT}) can be passed as the
value of the @b{Context} argument to the interface functions, and has the same effect as a context
OM object created with default values.  The context must be a private object, unless it is
@b{Default-Context}.

Detailed specifications of the OM class @b{Context} are given in @ref{Interface Class Definitions}.

@node Function Arguments
@section Function Arguments

@menu
* Encoding and Decoding::
* Argument and Response::
@end menu

The Abstract Service defines specific arguments for each operation.  These are mapped onto
corresponding arguments to each interface function (which are also called input parameters).
Although each service has different arguments, some specific arguments recur in several operations;
these are briefly introduced here.  As far as the H.248 package is concerned, OM classes are defined
with a one-to-one mapping to the ASN.1 Abstract Syntax of H.248.  Full details of these and all the
other arguments are given in the function definitions in @ref{Interface Functions}, and the OM class
definitions in @ref{Interface Class Definitions}.

All arguments that are OM objects can generally be supplied to the interface functions as public
objects (i.e, descriptor lists) or as private objects.  Private objects must be created in the
workspace that was returned by @i{Initialize()}.  In some cases, constants can be supplied instead
of OM objects.

Note that wherever a function is stated as accepting an instance of a particular OM class as the
value of an argument, it will also accept an instance of any subclass of that OM class.  For
example, the @b{Service-Req} function has a parameter @b{argument}, which accepts values of OM class
@b{Service-Argument}.  Any of the subclasses of @b{Service-Argument} may be supplied as the value of
@b{argument}.

Rules for interpretation of @samp{ANY} syntax appearing in function arguments are defined in
@ref{Encoding and Decoding}.

@node Encoding and Decoding
@subsection Encoding and Decoding

XGCP specifies two alternatives for encoding and decoding of Gateway Control Packages OM-Attribute
values of type @samp{ANY}, or any OM-Attribute values in a Gateway Control Services package.

@enumerate

@item The encoding and decoding functionality can be provided internally with the XGCP API, without
requiring the application to invoke any encoding or decoding functions.  This option allows the
application to be free from any knowledge of encoding rules.  In this case, the OM class and
attribute type and corresponding representation are defined in a gateway control services package.
The XGCP API uses the package definition to attempt encoding or decoding; if automatic decoding
fails, an OM String(Encoding) is used.

@item The application can perform encoding and decoding itself.  This option gives the application
responsibility and control over the encoding and decoding of OM attributes.  In this case, all OM
attribute values appear as an OM String(Encoding).

@end enumerate

The encoding and decoding alternative to be used is negotiated through the @i{Negotiate()} function;
@xref{Negotiate}.

The XGCP API does not specify the use of OM-Encode or OM-Decode for the OM classes defined in this
specification, or in gateway control services packages used with this specification.

To ensure interoperability, the sender and receiver must follow the same encoding rules when
converting between OM syntax and encoded syntax.  If an algorithm is used to generate OM packages,
then the algorithm must ensure that the generated OM syntax is consistent with the input abstract
syntax (that is, the same encoded values must result from applying the encoding rules to either
representation).  The encoding rules used with MGCP, MEGACO and H.248 packages defined by this
specification are ASN.1 BER.  This does not imply that other encoding rules cannot be used with
other packages defined in the future.

For the API to encode and decode the OM attribute values according to the ASN.1 standard scheme,
ASN.1 tagging information must be stored for each OM object and each OM attribute.  Thus, the
package definitions in the workspace need to incorporate the ASN.1 tagging information for each OM
object and each OM attribute definition for all Gateway Control Services packages.

As a minimum, the following requirements apply:

@itemize @bullet

@item All rules specified in ISO/IEC 8825 -- Specification of Basic Encoding Rules for Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) shall be adhered to.  Any exceptions or restrictions must be stated.

@item ASN.1 tagging information must be retained for each OM object and each OM attribute in the
Gateway Control Services packages.

@item The specified encoding and decoding scheme (and any implementation thereof) should be
extensible to accommodate the new encoding rules established subsequent to ISO/IEC 8825.

@end itemize

@node Argument and Response
@subsection Argument and Response

Most operations and notifications take an argument to specify the argument of the operation and a
response when issuing the response of the operation.  These arguments and responses are specified to
accept values of OM classes that are consistent with the abstract service view (MGCP, MEGACO or
H.248) of the current operation.

The argument for a @i{Service-req()} function is represented by an instance of the OM Class
@b{MGCP-Service-Req-Argument} for an MGCP operation, or an instance of the OM Class
@b{MEGACO-Service-Req-Argument} for a MEGACO operation, or @b{H248-Service-Req-Argument} for an
H.248 operation.

The reponse for a @i{Service-rsp()} function is represented by an instance of the OM Class
@b{MGCP-Service-Result}, @b{MGCP-Linked-Reply-Argument} @b{Service-Error} or
@b{MGCP-Service-Reject} to represent the possible responses of the MGCP service request operation,
or an instance of the @b{MEGACO-Service-Result}, @b{MEGACO-Linked-Reply-Argument} @b{Service-Error} or
@b{MEGACO-Service-Reject} to represent the possible responses of the MEGACO service request operation,
or an instance of the @b{H248-Service-Result}, @b{H248-Linked-Reply-Argument} @b{Service-Error} or
@b{H248-Service-Reject} to represent the possible responses of the H.248 service request operation.

@node Function Results
@section Function Results

@menu
* Dialog-ID: Dialog-ID Discussion.
* Result: Result Discussion.
* Status: Status Discussion.
@end menu

All functions return a @b{Status} (which is the C function result).  Most return an @b{Dialog-ID}
which identifies the particular invocation.  The confirmed operations each return a @b{Result}.
(The @b{Dialog-ID} and @b{Result} are returned using pointers that are supplied as arguments of
the C function).  These three kinds of function results are introduced below.

All OM objects returned by interface functions (results and errors) will be private objects in the
workspace associated with the session private object.

@node Dialog-ID Discussion
@subsection Dialog-ID

All interface functions that invoke a gateway control service operation return an
@b{Dialog-ID}; an integer that identifies the particular invocation of an operation.  The
@b{Dialog-ID} is only relevant for asynchronous confirmed operations and may be used later to
receive the @b{Status} and @b{Result}, or to abandon them.  The @b{Dialog-ID} is also used to
respond to a previously requested confirmed operation.  Asynchronous operations are fully described
in @ref{Synchronous and Asynchronous Operation}.  The interface functions that can be used to start
them are the @i{Service-req()} function.

The numerical value of the @b{Dialog-ID} returned from a call that successfully invoke an
asynchronous confirmed operation is guaranteed to be unique amongst all outstanding operations in
given session.  Dialog IDs used by XGCP are not necessarily those that are actually sent via an
underlying protocol such as H.248.  Dialog IDs may be mapped or altered by the Gateway Control
Service provider.

The value returned for a synchronous operation or an asynchronous non-confirmed operation is
unspecified, as is that for a call that fails to invoke an operation.

@node Result Discussion
@subsection Result

Functions invoking confirmed gateway control service operations return a result only if they
succeed.  All errors from these functions are reported in the @b{Status} described below, as are
errors from all other functions.

The value returned by a function call that invokes an asynchronous operation is unspecified, as is
that for a call that fails to invoke an operation.  The result of an asynchronous operation is
returned by a later call to @i{Receive()}.

The result of a function invoking a confirmed operation can be composed of a single reply, or of
multiple linked replies.  In the later case, the term @dfn{partial result} is used to designate one
of these linked replies.  Only a confirmed @b{Service-req} may produce multiple results.  Multiple
replies to a single gateway control service operation may only occur if the invoker specifies
multiple-reply in the functional unit attribute of the Session object.

In asynchronous mode, the partial results can be retrieved one at a time by subsequent calls to
@i{Receive()}, which each time returns an instance of OM class @b{Linked-Reply-Argument}.  In
synchronous mode, the function returns an instance of OM class @b{Multiple-Reply}, which contains a
list of sub-objects of OM class @b{Linked-Reply-Argument}.

The result (or partial result) of an operation is returned in a private object whose OM class is
appropriate to the particular operation.  The format of gateway control service operation results
is driven both by the Abstract Service and by the need to provide asynchronous execution of
functions.  To simplify processing of asynchronous results, the result (or partial result) of a
single operation is returned in a single OM object (corresponding to the abstract result defined in
the Standards).  The components of the result (or partial result) of an operation are represented by
OM attribute in the operation's result object.  All information contained in the Abstract Service
result is made available to the application program.  The result (partial result) is inspected using
the functions provided in the OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation API.

Only confirmed gateway control service operations produce results, and each type of operation has
a specific OM class of OM object for its result.  These OM classes are defined in @ref{Interface
Class Definitions}.

The actual OM class of the result can always be a subclass of that named, to allow flexibility for
extensions.  Thus, the function @i{OM-Instance()} should always be used when testing the OM class.

@node Status Discussion
@subsection Status

Every interface function returns a @b{Status} value, that is either the constant @b{success}
(@samp{(GCP_status)0} or @samp{GCP_SUCCESS}) or an error.  Function call errors are represented as
integer constants and grouped in categories of System, Library and Communications as described in
@ref{Errors}.

Additional error information is available for System and Communications errors via the
@i{Get-Last-Error()} function call.  Additional error information is available for the
@b{bad-argument} Library error via the @i{Validate-object()} function call.

A synchronous call with multiple linked replies is considered successful unless the reply limit or
time limit is exceeded.  The function returns a @b{Status} value equal to success, and the argument
@i{Result} is an OM object of OM class @b{Multiple-Reply}, which contains all the linked replies.

It should be noted that OM object @b{Linked-Reply-Argument} may contain an OM attribute that
reflects an error.

If the reply limit or time limit is exceeded, the synchronous call fails and returns a status of the
appropriate Library error.  However, the @i{Result} is still considered valid and may contain an
OM-Object @b{Multiple-Reply}, which contains all the received linked replies.  A result of
@var{GCP_ABSENT_OBJECT} means no replies were received.

In most cases other results of functions are initialized to Null (@var{GCP_ABSENT_OBJECT}) if the
status does not have the value @b{success}.  However, the @i{Result} is still considered valid and
may contain an OM-Object of partial replies.  A result of @var{GCP_ABSENT_OBJECT} means no replies
were received.

@node Synchronous and Asynchronous Operation
@section Synchronous and Asynchronous Operation

The asynchronous or synchronous mode of a requested operation is specified at the interface, and
determined for each operation by the value of the OM attribute @i{Asynchronous} in the @b{Context}
passed to the interface function.  The default value of this OM attribute is @b{false}, causing all
operations to by synchronous.  Support for both synchronous and asynchronous operation is mandatory.
There is a limit to the number of pending asynchronous operations; this limit is given by the
constant @b{max-outstanding-operations}, and has a minimum value of 10.

In synchronous mode, all functions wait until the operation is complete before returning.  Thus the
thread of control is blocked within the interface after calling a function, and the application can
make use of the result immediately after the function returns.

In asynchronous mode, some functions return before the operation is complete.  The application is
then able to continue with other processing while the operation is being executed by the Gateway
Control Service provider, and can then access the result by calling @i{Receive()}.  An application
may initiate several concurrent asynchronous operations on the same session before receiving any of
the results, subject to the limit described below.  The results are not guaranteed to be returned in
any particular order.  The functions that can execute asynchronously are the @i{Service-req()}
function.  This corresponds to the gateway control services of the Standards that operate in a
confirmed mode.  Moreover, only confirmed operations return service results.

An asynchronous function call of a confirmed service returns a @b{Dialog-ID} of the operation
to the application.  The same @b{Dialog-ID} will be returned by @i{Receive()} on the
corresponding result.

A @b{Dialog-ID} is also returned by @i{Receive()} on an indication of an invoked gateway
control service operation.  The same @b{Dialog-ID} will be used to respond to this operation.

Implementations of the interface are free to return from asynchronous function calls as soon as
possible or may wait until the operation has been submitted to the underlying Gateway Control
Service provider.  The actual policy used is implementation-defined.

Implementations will define a limit to the number of asynchronous operations that may be outstanding
at any one time on any one session.  An asynchronous operation is outstanding from the time that the
function is called until the last reply of the result is returned by @i{Receive()}, or the operation
is abandoned by @i{Abandon()}, or the session is closed by @i{Unbind()}.  The limit is given by the
constant @b{max-outstanding-operations} (@samp{GCP_MAX_OUTSTANDING_OPERATIONS}) and is at least 10
for conforming XGCP implementations.  While this number of operations is outstanding, attempts to
invoke further asynchronous operations will report a @b{Library-Error} (too many operations).

Asynchronous operation calls can be aborted by executing an @i{Abandon()} or @i{Unbind()} call.  In
this case, the operation is no longer outstanding and the result will never be returned by further
@i{Receive()} function calls.

If an error is detected before an asynchronous request is submitted to the Gateway Control
Service provider, the function will return immediately and there will be no outstanding operation
generated.  Other errors are notified later by @i{Receive()}, when the result of the outstanding
asynchronous confirmed operation is returned.  All errors occurring during a synchronous request are
reported when the function returns.  Full details of error handling are given in @ref{Errors}.

Where vendors provide suitable system primitives (such as System V @manref{poll(2s)}, or BSD
@manref{select(2)}), applications can obtain a file descriptor from the @b{Session} by inspecting
the value of the OM attribute @i{File-Descriptor}.  Applications may use the file descriptor to
suspend the process until data is received on the particular file descriptor.

Applications should ensure that there are no outstanding asynchronous operations on a session when
@i{Unbind()} is called on that session.  Once @i{Unbind()} has been called there is no way to
determine whether any outstanding operations succeed or even whether they were ever sent to the
Gateway Control Service provider.  Also no errors or results of any kind will be reported to the
application.  It is strongly recommended that @i{Receive()} is called repeatedly until
@b{Completion-Flag} takes the value @b{nothing}.

@node Other Features
@section Other Features

@menu
* Automatic Association Management::
* Automatic Message Handling::
* Automatic Dialog Handling::
* Automatic Performer Resolution::
* Responder Versatility::
* Automatic Name to Address Resolution::
* Automatic Dispatching to Appropriate Stack::
@end menu

These features are not part of the interface itself, but are mandatory when specified by the Gateway
Control Service provider.

The Gateway Control Protocols are not restricted to those defined by H.248.

All the features listed below are for the most part necessary for ease of use in a gateway control
environment.  These features are classified as given registered identifiers (Object Identifier).
They can be negotiated using the @i{Negotiate()} function in the same manner as packages.  Other
types of information that are critical in servicing an environment that includes implementation from
multiple vendors on various machines can also be classified and handled with the @i{Negotiate()}
function.  Features defined by this specification are described and assigned Object Identifiers in
@ref{Interface Functions}.

@node Automatic Association Management
@subsection Automatic Association Management

When the Gateway Control Services provider makes use of association oriented communication services,
such as TCP or SCTP, the Gateway Control Service provider implementations are assumed to provide
automatic handling of the association between gateway control entities, establishing and releasing
associations at its discretion.  Such management is intended to bring benefits such as reduced
communication charges.  To allow this flexibility to the implementation, the interface does not
specify when communication takes place.  @dfn{Automatic Association Management (AAM)} may be enabled
or disabled on a per-workspace basis using the @i{Negotiate()} function. 

@node Automatic Message Handling
@subsection Automatic Message Handling

When the Gateway Control Services provider makes use of message oriented communication services,
such as that provided by H.248, the Gateway Control Service provider implementations are assume to
provide automatic handling of messages between gateway control entities, grouping transactions into
messages at its discretion.  Such handling is intended to bring benefits such as reduced
communication overheads.  To allow this flexibility to the implementation, the interface does not
specify which transactions are packed into which messages.  @dfn{Automatic Message Handling (AMH)}
may be enabled or disabled on a per-workspace basis using the @i{Negotiate()}
function.@footnote{Note that @dfn{Automatic Message Handling} is an independent concept from
@dfn{Automatic Association Management}.}

@node Automatic Dialog Handling
@subsection Automatic Dialog Handling

When the Gateway Control Services provider makes use of transaction oriented communication services,
such as that provided by H.248, the Gateway Control Service provider implementations are assumed to
provide automatic handling of transactions between gateway control entities, establishing and
releasing transactions at its discretion.  Such handling is intended to bring benefits such as
reduced communication overheads.  To allow this flexibility to the implementation, the interface
does not specify when communication takes place.  @dfn{Automatic Dialog Handling (ADH)} may be
enabled or disabled on a per-workspace basis using the @i{Negotiate()} function.@footnote{Note that
@dfn{Automatic Dialog Handling} is an independent concept from @dfn{Automatic Association
Management}.}

Under MEGACO and H.248, transactions are used to provide for sequencing of a set of commands.
Commands that are contained within separate transactions provide no guarantees whatsoever of
ordering.  When ordering of commands is required, either the commands must be placed into the same
transaction, or the result of each command must be awaited before issuing the subsequent command.
Due to the possibility of message loss and the delays associated with retransmission of the lost
messages, the later approach (awaiting the result of the previous command before issuing the current
command) can introduce inter-command delays that may or may not be acceptable.  On the other hand,
preparing the full sequence of commands in advance may not be possible, as the next command chosen
may depend on the results of a previous command.  In general; however, grouping multiple commands
into a transaction can serve to provide a limited set of compound commands from short sequences of
simple commands.

@node Automatic Performer Resolution
@subsection Automatic Performer Resolution

The performer of an invoked operation may be explicitly designated by the responder name and
responder address parameters of the bound session used.

However, in the case where the responder is specified as a wildcard, the Gateway Control Service
provider may be assumed to provide automatic gateway control service and application context to
consumer resolution: to find out the consumer that is in charge of the selected gateway control
service specified in the gateway control service operation.

@node Responder Versatility
@subsection Responder Versatility

Responder versatility is the ability to change the consumer within a same bound-session at each
function call.  It is useful when the automatic consumer resolution is either not supported by the
Gateway Control Service provider or not requested.  This applies if the underlying Gateway Control
Service provider is connection-less.

@node Automatic Name to Address Resolution
@subsection Automatic Name to Address Resolution

Gateway Control Service provider implementation may provide automatic resolution between program
name and address to find the network address of a gateway control entity from its name using
directory or translation services.

@node Automatic Dispatching to Appropriate Stack
@subsection Automatic Dispatching to Appropriate Stack

The Gateway Control Services provider implementation may provide a loop back facility if the
destination of the operation or notification is local.  It also may provide routing of the
gateway control services operation to the proper underlying communications stack according to the
implied gateway control service and the destination (for example over UDP or SCTP).

@node Function Sequencing
@section Function Sequencing

A minimum set of sequencing rules applies when using the interface to exchange gateway control
service information between gateway control programs acting as a gateway control entity.  These
rules need to be respected by gateway control programs to ensure that interface functions are called
in the proper sequence and that the state of the interface is not violated, otherwise
@b{Library-error} status will be returned.@footnote{Note the following is considered as tutorial
information.  The definitive information is contained in the Standards (see referenced documents).}

The general rules to follow are:

@enumerate

@item Initialize a workspace (@samp{gcp_initialize()})

@item Negotiate features of the interface (@samp{gcp_negotiate()})

@item Open one or several sessions (@samp{gcp_bind()})

@item Perform gateway control service interactions (operations) using the offered interface
functions.  An interaction is identified by its @b{Dialog-Id}.

@item Close the opened sessions (@samp{gcp_unbind()})

@item Discard the workspace (@samp{gcp_shutdown()})

@end enumerate

Seven states are defined in the interface to cover both interface service operations and gateway
control service interactions:

@table @var
@item UNINIT
Workspace uninitialized.
@item INIT
Workspace initialized.
@item UNBND
Session closed.
@item BND
Session opened.
@item IDLE
@item OUTOP
Outstanding operation requested in a gateway control service interaction.
@item OPIND
Operation indication received in a gateway control service interaction.
@end table

@node Interface Packages
@chapter Interface Packages

@node Feature Packages
@section Feature Packages

@node Common GCP Feature Package
@subsection Common GCP Package

The Object-Identifier associated with the Common GCP package is:

@format
@verbatim
  { iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591)
    xom-packages(1) xgcp(2) common(1) }
@end verbatim
@end format

This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @b{Common-Package} (@samp{GCP_@-COMMON_@-PKG}).

@node MGCP Feature Package
@subsection MGCP Package

The Object-Identifier associated with the MGCP package is:

@format
@verbatim
  { iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591)
    xom-packages(1) xgcp(2) mgcp(2) }
@end verbatim
@end format

This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @b{MGCP-Package} (@samp{GCP_@-MGCP_@-PKG}).

@node MEGACO Feature Packages
@subsection MEGACO Package

The Object-Identifier associated with the MEGACO package is:

@format
@verbatim
  { iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591)
    xom-packages(1) xgcp(2) megaco(3) }
@end verbatim
@end format

This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @b{MEGACO-Package} (@samp{GCP_@-MEGACO_@-PKG}).

The Object-Identifiers associated with the MEGACO package for various versions of the protocol are:

@format
@verbatim
  { iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591)
    xom-packages(1) xgcp(2) megaco(3) v1(1) }
  { iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591)
    xom-packages(1) xgcp(2) megaco(3) v2(2) }
  { iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591)
    xom-packages(1) xgcp(2) megaco(3) v3(3) }
@end verbatim
@end format

This Object-Identifiers are represented by the constants
@b{MEGACO-V1-Package} (@samp{GCP_@-MEGACO_@-V1_@-PKG}),
@b{MEGACO-V1-Package} (@samp{GCP_@-MEGACO_@-V2_@-PKG}) and
@b{MEGACO-V1-Package} (@samp{GCP_@-MEGACO_@-V3_@-PKG}), respectively.

@node H.248 Feature Packages
@subsection H.248 Package

The Object-Identifier associated with the H.248 package is:

@format
@verbatim
  { itu-t(0) recommendation(0) h(8) h248(248) part1(1) }
@end verbatim
@end format

This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @b{H248-Package} (@samp{GCP_@-H248_@-PKG}).

The Object-Identifiers associated with the H.248.1 package for various versions of the protocol are:

@format
@verbatim
  { itu-t(0) recommendation(0) h(8) h248(248) part1(1) version1(1) }
  { itu-t(0) recommendation(0) h(8) h248(248) part1(1) version1(2) }
  { itu-t(0) recommendation(0) h(8) h248(248) part1(1) version1(3) }
@end verbatim
@end format

This Object-Identifiers are represented by the constants
@b{MEGACO-V1-Package} (@samp{GCP_@-H248_@-V1_@-PKG}),
@b{MEGACO-V2-Package} (@samp{GCP_@-H248_@-V2_@-PKG}) and
@b{MEGACO-V3-Package} (@samp{GCP_@-H248_@-V3_@-PKG}), respectively.

@node H.248 Extension Feature Packages
@subsection H.248 Extension Packages

@node H.248.x Sub-series Extension Packages
@subsubsection H.248.x Sub-series Extension Packages

ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 (09/2005) provides for its own extension package concept.  Each
extension package is in a part of the H.248 suite of specifications.  There are over 50 of these
extension packages defined and the list is too long to repeat here and the list would contain too
much redundant information (see ITU-T Recommendations Series H Supplement 2 (07/2010) for a guide to
the ITU-T H.248.x sub-series packages).  Therefore, these recommendations and extension packages are
identified by an Object-Identifier of the general form: @t{@{ itu-t(0) recommendation(0) h(8)
h248(248) partX(X) versionY(Y) @}}, where, @samp{X} is the part number in the H.248 suite (for
example, for H.248.12, @samp{X} is @samp{12}); and, @samp{Y} is the GCP protocol version (for
example, for GCP Version 3, @samp{Y} is @samp{3}).  The `C' language binding of these
Object-Identifiers are @b{H248-X-VY-Package} (@samp{GCP_@-H248_@-X_@-VY_@-PKG}).  To refer to the extension
package without specifying the version, use @t{@{ itu-t(0) recommendation(0) h(8) h248(248) partX(X)
@}} only.  The `C' language binding of these Object-Identifiers are @b{H248-X-Package}
(@samp{GCP_@-H248_@-X_@-PKG}).

The ITU-T Recommendation H.248.x sub-series extension packages are itemized in @tabref{100},
@tabref{101}, @tabref{102} and @tabref{103}.

@float Table,Table 100
@multitable @columnfractions .26 .74
@item ITU-T H.248.1 Annex E  @tab Basic packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.2          @tab Facsimile, text, conversation and call discrimination packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.3          @tab User interface elements and actions package.
@item ITU-T H.248.6          @tab Dynamic tone definition package.
@item ITU-T H.248.7          @tab Generic announcement package.
@item ITU-T H.248.9          @tab Advanced media server packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.10         @tab Media gateway resource congestion handling package.
@item ITU-T H.248.11         @tab Media gateway overload control package.
@item ITU-T H.248.12         @tab H.248.1 packages for H.323 and H.324 interworking.
@item ITU-T H.248.12 Annex A @tab Extended H.324, H.245 command and H.245 indication packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.13         @tab Quality alert ceasing package.
@item ITU-T H.248.14         @tab Inactivity timer package.
@item ITU-T H.248.15         @tab SDP H.248 package attribute.
@item ITU-T H.248.16         @tab Enhanced digit collection packages and procedures.
@item ITU-T H.248.17         @tab Line test packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.18         @tab Package for support of multiple profiles.
@item ITU-T H.248.19         @tab Decomposed MCU, audio, video and data conferencing packages.
@end multitable
@caption{@emph{ITU-T Rec. H.248.x Packages (1--19)}}
@end float
@float Table,Table 101
@multitable @columnfractions .26 .74
@item ITU-T H.248.20         @tab Local and remote descriptors with H.221/H.223 multiplexing.
@item ITU-T H.248.21         @tab Semi-permanent connection handling package.
@item ITU-T H.248.22         @tab Shared risk group package.
@item ITU-T H.248.23         @tab Enhanced alerting packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.24         @tab MF tone generation and detection packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.25         @tab Basic CAS packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.26         @tab Enhanced analogue lines package.
@item ITU-T H.248.27         @tab Supplemental tones packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.28         @tab International CAS packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.29         @tab International CAS compelled register signalling packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.30         @tab RTCP extended performance metrics package.
@item ITU-T H.248.31         @tab Adaptive jitter buffer package.
@item ITU-T H.248.32         @tab Detailed congestion reporting package.
@item ITU-T H.248.33         @tab PCM frame spare bit package.
@item ITU-T H.248.34         @tab Stimulus analogue line package.
@item ITU-T H.248.35         @tab Coin-operated phone control package.
@item ITU-T H.248.36         @tab Hanging termination detection package.
@item ITU-T H.248.37         @tab IP NAPT traversal package.
@item ITU-T H.248.38         @tab Base context package.
@item ITU-T H.248.39         @tab SDP parameter identification and wildcarding.
@end multitable
@caption{@emph{ITU-T Rec. H.248.x Packages (20--39)}}
@end float
@float Table,Table 102
@multitable @columnfractions .26 .74
@item ITU-T H.248.40         @tab Application data inactivity detection package.
@item ITU-T H.248.41         @tab IP domain connection package.
@item ITU-T H.248.42         @tab DCME interworking package.
@item ITU-T H.248.43         @tab Gate management packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.44         @tab Multi-level precedence and pre-emption package.
@item ITU-T H.248.45         @tab MGC information package.
@item ITU-T H.248.46         @tab Connection capability control package.
@item ITU-T H.248.47         @tab Statistic conditional reporting package.
@item ITU-T H.248.48         @tab RTCP XR block reporting package.
@item ITU-T H.248.49         @tab SDP RFC packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.50         @tab NAT traversal toolkit packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.51         @tab Termination connection model package.
@item ITU-T H.248.52         @tab Quality of service packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.53         @tab Traffic management packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.54         @tab MPLS support package.
@item ITU-T H.248.55         @tab Generic pull mode package.
@item ITU-T H.248.56         @tab Virtual private network packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.57         @tab RTP control protocol package.
@item ITU-T H.248.58         @tab Package for application of level H.248 statistics.
@item ITU-T H.248.59         @tab Event timestamp notification package.
@end multitable
@caption{@emph{ITU-T Rec. H.248.x Packages (40--59)}}
@end float
@float Table,Table 103
@multitable @columnfractions .26 .74
@item ITU-T H.248.60         @tab Identification of content of communication package.
@item ITU-T H.248.61         @tab Packages for network level H.248 statistics.
@item ITU-T H.248.62         @tab Re-answer package.
@item ITU-T H.248.63         @tab Resource management package.
@item ITU-T H.248.64         @tab IP router packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.65         @tab Support of the resource reservation protocol.
@item ITU-T H.248.66         @tab Packages for RTSP and H.248 interworking.
@item ITU-T H.248.67         @tab GCP transport mode indication package.
@item ITU-T H.248.68         @tab Package for removal of digits and tones.
@item ITU-T H.248.69         @tab Packages for interworking between MSRP and H.248.
@item ITU-T H.248.70         @tab Dialling method information packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.71         @tab RTCP support packages.
@item ITU-T H.248.72         @tab ITU-T H.248 support for MONA.
@item ITU-T H.248.73         @tab MSCML and ITU-T H.248 interworking.
@item ITU-T H.248.74         @tab Media resource control enhancement package.
@item ITU-T H.248.75         @tab Package identifier publishing and application package.
@item ITU-T H.248.76         @tab Filter group package and guidelines.
@item ITU-T H.248.77         @tab SRTP package and procedures.
@item ITU-T H.248.78         @tab Bearer-level application level gateway.
@item ITU-T H.248.80         @tab Usage of the revised SDP offer/answer model with H.248.
@end multitable
@caption{@emph{ITU-T Rec. H.248.x Packages (60--80)}}
@end float

@node Q.1950 Annex A Extension Packages
@subsubsection Q.1950 Annex A Extension Packages

ITU-T Recommendation Q.1950 (12/2002) and ITU-T Recommendation Q.1950 Amendment 1 (01/2006) provide
for additional H.248 extension packages that are numbered separately from H.248.x sub-series
packages.  These recommendations and extension packages are identified by an Object-Identifier of
the general form: @t{@{ itu-t(0) recommendation(0) q(17) q1950(1950) AnnexY(Y) PartX(X) @}}, where,
@samp{Y} is the annex number (for example, for Q.1950 Annex A, @samp{Y} is @samp{1}); @samp{X} is
the part number in the Q.1950 suite (for example, for Q.1950 Annex A.6, @samp{X} is @samp{6}), but
is only specified when there is a part of the Annex.  The `C' language binding of these
Object-Identifiers is @b{CBC-AnnexY-X-Package} (@samp{GCP_@-CBC_@-ANNEXY_@-X_@-PKG}).  To refer to
the complete set of CBC extensions without reference to a specific part, use @t{@{ itu-t(0)
recommendation(0) q(17) q1950(1950) @}} only.  The `C` language binding of these Object-Identifiers
are @b{CBC-Package} (@samp{GCP_@-CBC_@-PKG}).

The ITU-T Recommendation Q.1950 extension packages are itemized in @tabref{104}.

@float Table,Table 104
@multitable @columnfractions .26 .74
@item ITU-T Q.1950/A.3  @tab Bearer characteristics package.
@item ITU-T Q.1950/A.4  @tab Bearer network connection cut through package.
@item ITU-T Q.1950/A.5  @tab Reuse idle package.
@item ITU-T Q.1950/A.6  @tab Generic bearer connection package.
@item ITU-T Q.1950/A.7  @tab Bearer control tunnelling package.
@item ITU-T Q.1950/A.8  @tab Basic call progress tones generator with directionality.
@item ITU-T Q.1950/A.9  @tab Expanded call progress tones generator package.
@item ITU-T Q.1950/A.10 @tab Basic services tones generation package.
@item ITU-T Q.1950/A.11 @tab Expanded services tones generation package.
@item ITU-T Q.1950/A.12 @tab Intrusion tones generation package.
@item ITU-T Q.1950/A.13 @tab Business tones generation package.
@item ITU-T Q.1950/B    @tab CBC continuity test. NOTE 1.
@item ITU-T Q.1950/C    @tab CBC BIWF congestion handling. NOTE 2.
@item ITU-T Q.1950/D    @tab CBC N x 64k package.
@item ITU-T Q.1950/E    @tab CBC extensions for access networks that support BICC.
@item ITU-T Q.1950/F    @tab CBC emergency call indication.
@item ITU-T Q.1950/G    @tab CBC international emergency preference scheme.
@end multitable
NOTES:
@enumerate
@item This package requires the H.248.1 Basic continuity test control package.
@item This package requires the H.248.10 Media Gateway resource congestion handling package.
@end enumerate
@caption{@emph{ITU-T Rec. Q.1950 (12/2002) Packages}}
@end float

@node Feature Profiles
@section Feature Profiles

The Standards provide for a wide range of ITU-T Recommendation H.248 extension packages.  Many
standards bodies have defined profiles of extension packages that define the activation of sets of
feature packages.  These profiles are defined here.  Activation of a given H.248 profile results in
the activation deactivation of corresponding feature packages.

@node Interface Functions
@chapter Interface Functions

@menu
* Abandon(): Abandon.
* Abort(): Abort.
* Abort-req(): Abort-req.
* Accept(): Accept.
* Assoc-req(): Assoc-req.
* Assoc-rsp(): Assoc-rsp.
* Bind(): Bind.
* Close(): Close.
* Error-Message(): Error-Message.
* Get-Assoc-Info(): Get-Assoc-Info.
* Get-last-error(): Get-last-error.
* Initialize(): Initialize.
* Issue(): Issue.
* Negotiate(): Negotiate.
* Open(): Open.
* Receive(): Receive.
* Refuse(): Refuse.
* Release-req(): Release-req.
* Release-rsp(): Release-rsp.
* Service-req(): Service-req.
* Service-rsp(): Service-rsp.
* Service-parameter(): Service-parameter.
* Shutdown(): Shutdown.
* Transaction-pnd(): Transaction-pnd.
* Transaction-req(): Transaction-req.
* Transaction-rsp(): Transaction-rsp.
* Unbind(): Unbind.
* Validate-object(): Validate-object.
* Wait(): Wait.
@end menu

@node Send
@section Send()

@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Send} -- send a gateway control message.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom..h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_send(
        OM_private_object   session,
        OM_private_object   context,
        OM_object           argument,
        OM_private_object   *result_return,
        OM_sint32           *message_id-return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to send a gateway control message when @i{Automatic Message Handling} is
disabled on a session.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The gateway control session on which to send the message.  This must be a private object previously
returned from @i{Bind()} or @i{Open()}.
@item Context (Object(Context))
The gateway control context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private object
or the constant @b{Default-Context} (@samp{GCP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT}).

The service may be requested in a confirmed mode or a non-confirmed mode.  In confirmed mode, a
reply is expected.
@item Argument (Object(Message))
The information supplied as the argument of a gateway control message is an instance of a subclass
of the OM class @b{Message}.  Normally, concrete subclasses of this class are defined in Gateway
Control Services packages.  For example, the @b{H248-Message} subclass of @b{Message} is defined in
the H.248 Services package is defined in the H.248 Services package (@pxref{H.248 Package}) and may
be used as an argument to this function.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
When the function is called synchronously, the values @b{success} indicates that the action was
completed.  If called asynchronously, it indicates that the operation was initiated.
@item Result (Object(*))
Upon successful completion of a syncrhonous call, when the operation was requested in a confirmed
mode, the result is one of the following:
@itemize @bullet
@item When the service is requested in a non-confirmed mode, no results are expected and the
constant @b{Absent-Object} (@samp{GCP_ABSENT_OBJECT}) is returned as the result.
@item When a confirmed mode service is requested, this is indicated by an instance of the OM class
@b{Message-Result} or @b{Message-Error}, or when multiple replies are provided, an instance of OM
class @b{Multiple-Reply}, which contains a set of instances of the OM class
@b{Message-Linked-Reply}.  Each @b{Message-Linked-Reply} contains exactly one of the following OM
attributes:
@itemize ---
@item message-Result
@item message-Error
@item processing-Failure
@end itemize
@end itemize
@item Message-ID (Integer)
The @b{Message-Id} of the initiated gateway control message when invoked asynchronously.  It is
significant in the case of a confirmed mode request only.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}:
bad-argument, bad-class, bad-context, bad-session, miscellaneous not-supported, session-terminated,
reply-limit-exceeded, time-limit-exceeded.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants, @perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION}, @perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Abandon()},@footnote{@xref{Abandon}.}
@i{Response()}.@footnote{@xref{Response}.}
@item CORESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the H248Message of ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1.
@end table

@page
@node Abandon
@section Abandon()

@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Abandon} -- abandon locally the result of a pending asynchronous operation.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_abandon(
        OM_private_object  session,
        OM_sint32          invoke_id
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function abandons the result of an outstanding asynchronous function call.  The function is no
longer outstanding after this function returns, and the result (or the remaining results in case of
multiple linked replies) will never be returned by @i{Receive()}.

@i{Abandon()} may, but need not, cause the Gateway Control Service provider to abandon the
outstanding asynchronous operation itself (as opposed to simply discarding the result).  Note that
the specified behaviour is a local mater, and no statement is made about underlying gateway control
service operations that may or may not be abandoned.

This function can only be called in synchronous mode.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The gateway control session in which the confirmed operation was requested.  This must be a
private object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}

@item Dialog-ID (Integer)
Selects the specific outstanding asynchronous operation submitted via the @b{Session} to be
terminated.  The outstanding operation may be a non-confirmed service.  In that case the abandon is
without effect.  The value of @b{Dialog-ID} must be that which was returned by the function call
that initiated the asynchronous gateway control operation that is now to be abandoned.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the abandon function succeeded.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-class,
bad-session, bad-procedural-use, miscellaneous, session-terminated.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

Note that the abandon function is successful even if the operation to be abandoned does not exist
(any longer) or is not confirmed.  The abandon is then without effect.

The function can also return the error constants @perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION} and @perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCE}.
@end table

@page
@node Abort
@section Abort()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Abort} -- Abort Association.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_abort(
        OM_private_object  session,
        OM_private_object  context,
        OM_object          argument
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is one of a group of dialog handling functions: @i{Open()}, @i{Accept()},
@i{Refuse()}, @i{Issue()}, @i{Close()}, @i{Abort()}, @i{Receive()}, used to manage the MAP dialog
when AAM is disabled on a session.  When AAM is enabled on a session, this dialog handling
function is neither necessary nor permitted.

This function is used to abort a gateway control session that is either associated or partially
associated.  The service is defined as an unconfirmed service: a reply is not expected.

Once an abort is issued, the associated session is implicitly disassociated and unbound.  All
outstanding requests that pertain to this session are returned with the error session-terminated.
This includes any @i{Wait()} request on that session.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The associated (or partially associated) session against which this operation is perfomed.  This
must be a private object previously returned as part of an @b{Accept-Result} or @b{Open-Argument},
or returned explicitly from an asynchronously called @i{Open()}.  This session object must have AAM
disabled.
@item Context (Object(Context))
The gateway control context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private object.  Once
a session is connected or partially connected, the precedence rules for common parameters within the
@b{Session} and the @b{Context} objects are different.  Once connected, the responder address and
responder title cann not be overriden by the @b{Context} object.  (See also @ref{Names}.)
@item Argument (Object(Abort-Argument))
The information supplied as the argument of an @b{Abort} operation.  (See @ref{Abort-Argument}.)
@end table
@item RESULTS
As this function is not confirmed, there are no results returned.
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}, or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}:
bad-argument, bad-class, bad-context, bad-session, miscellaneous, missing-type, session-terminated,
reply-limit-exceeded, time-limit-edceeded.

The function can also return the error constants @perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION} and @perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES}.
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{MAP-U-ABORT} request primitive of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Abort-req
@section Abort-req()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Abort-req} --- abort a gateway control association.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_abort_req(
        OM_private_object   session,
        OM_private_object   context,
        OM_object           response
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to abort a gateway control session that is either associated or partially
associated.  The service is defined as an unconfirmed service.  A reply is not expected.

Once an abort request has been issued, the associated session is implicitly disassociated and
unbound.  All outstanding requests that pertain to this session are returned with the error
@var{session-terminated}.  This includes any @i{Wait()} requests on that session.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The associated (or partially associated) session against which this operation is performed.  This
must be a private object previously returned as part of an @b{Assoc-Result} or @b{Assoc-Argument},
or returned explicitly from an asynchronously called @i{Assoc-req()}.  This session object must have
AAM disabled.
@item Context (Object(Context))
The gateway control context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object.

Once a session is associated or partially associated, the precedence rules for common parameters
within the @b{Session} and @b{Context} objects are different.  Once associated, the
@var{responder-Address} and @var{responder-Title} cannot be overridden by the @b{Context} object.
@item Response (Object(Abort-Result))
The information supplied as the response of an @b{Abort} operation.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
The value @b{success} indicates that the operation was completed.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}, or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}:
bad-argument, bad-class, bad-context, bad-session, miscellaneous, missing-type, session-terminated,
reply-limit-exceeded, time-limit-exceeded.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{MP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{MP_INVALID_SESSION} or
@perr{MP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES}.
@end table

@page
@node Accept
@section Accept()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Accept} --- accept an indicated gateway control open operation.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_accept(
        OM_private_object       session,
        OM_private_object       context,
        OM_object               response,
        OM_sint32               dialog_id,
        OM_private_object      *connected_session_return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is one of a group of dialog handling functions: @i{Open()}, @i{Accept()},
@i{Refuse()}, @i{Issue()}, @i{Close()}, @i{Abort()}, @i{Receive()}, used to manage the MAP dialog
when AAM is disabled on a session.  When AAM is enabled on a session, this dialog handling
function is neither necessary nor permitted.

This function is used to accept a previously indicated @b{Open} operation.  This function can only
be called in syncrhonous mode.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The gateway control session against which this operation is to be performed.  This must be a
private object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}
@item Context (Object(Context))
The gateway control context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object or the constant @b{Default-Context} (@samp{GCP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT}).
@item Response (Object(Accept-Result))
The information supplied in acceptance of the previously indicated @b{Open} operation.
This is an instance of OM class @b{Accept-Result}, indicating that the open indication is to be
accepted.  The user provides negotiated ACSE parameters in this object as input to the service
provider.  A newly formed dialog object is returned in the @b{Accept-Result} object, so this is an
in/out parameter to this function.  The new @b{Session} object represents a fully formed dialog
session.
@item Dialog-ID (Integer)
The @b{Dialog-ID} of the requested dialog to which the reply applies.  This @b{Dialog-ID} must have
been returned from a call to @i{Receive()} for the corresponding association that is being accepted.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the @b{Accept} response was completed.
@item Connected-Session (Object(Session))
When successful, this function returns a newly connected session object.  The returned @b{Session}
object is in a connected state, and contains the final negotiated ACSE parameters for the new
association.

It is not specified whether the association has been formed by the underlying Gateway Control
Service provider at the time that this function returns.  The underlying Gateway Control Service
might wait until a @i{Issue()} function call before fully forming the association.  Nevertheless,
the association is considered to be in the ``connected'' state from the standpoint of the interface.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-class,
bad-context, bad-result, bad-session, miscellaneous, no-such-operation, not-supported,
session-terminated.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION} and
@perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES}.
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{MAP-OPEN} response primitive (with a parameter indicating
acceptance) of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Assoc-req
@section Assoc-req()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Assoc-req} --- establish gateway control association.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_assoc_req(
        OM_private_object   session,
        OM_private_object   context,
        OM_object           argument,
        OM_private_object  *result_return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to request the immediate establishment of a gateway control association when
@i{Automatic Association Management} is not used.  Note that association establishment performs
end-to-end communication for all underlying transports, regardless of whether they are
connection-oriented or connectionless.  When the underlying transport is connectionless (such as
UDP), the association establishment operation still includes the exchange of ServiceChange messages
intended on initiating the association.

The service is defined as a confirmed service.  A reply is expected.

This operation may be called in synchronous or asynchronous modes.

When @i{Automatic Association Management} is used for a gateway control session, this function is
not used.  @xref{Open}.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The gateway control session against which this operation is performed.  This must be a private
object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}  This session must also have
@dfn{Automatic Association Management (AAM)} disabled.
@item Context (Object(Context))
The gateway control context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object.
@item Argument (Object(Assoc-Argument))
The information supplied as an argument of an @b{Assoc} operation.  This is an @b{Assoc-Argument}
object with optional ACSE information contained within it.  An associated @b{Session} object is
returned in the @i{Result} of this function.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
The value @b{success} indicates that the action was completed.
@item Result (Object(Assoc-Result))
Upon successful completion, when the @b{Assoc-req} has been accepted/rejected by the Gateway Control
Service provider, one instance of the OM class @b{Assoc-Result} Object is returned.  This
@b{Assoc-Result} object either contains information as to why an association was rejected, or
contains a @b{Session} object in an associated state, and contains the final negotiated ACSE
parameters for the new association.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-argument, bad-class,
bad-context, bad-session, miscellaneous, missing-type, session-terminated, reply-limit-exceeded,
time-limit-exceeded.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION} or
@perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Assoc-rsp()}.@footnote{@xref{Assoc-rsp}.}
@end table

@page
@node Assoc-rsp
@section Assoc-rsp()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Assoc-rsp} --- reply to a requested association operation.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_assoc_rsp(
        OM_private_object   session,
        OM_private_object   context,
        OM_object           response,
        OM_sint32           assoc_id
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to reply to a previously invoked @var{Assoc} operation.

This function can only be called in synchronous mode.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The gateway control session against which this operation is performed.
This must be a private object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}
@item Context (Object(Context))
The gateway control context to be used for this operation.
This must be a private object or the constant @b{Default-Context} (@samp{GCP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT}).
@item Response (Object(Assoc-Result))
The information supplied as a response to an @b{Assoc} operation.  This is one of the following:
@itemize
@item When an association is accepted, one instance of the OM class @b{Assoc-Result} is given as the
response.  The user provides negotiated ACSE parameters in this object as input to the service
provider, and also indicates that the association is to be accepted by setting the
@var{assoc-Result} attribute to @b{accept}.  A newly associated session object is returned in the
@b{Assoc-Result} object, so this is an in/out parameter to this function.  The new @b{Session}
object is in an associated state, and contains the final negotiated ACSE parameters for the new
association.
@item When an association is to be rejected, one instance of the OM class @b{Assoc-Result} is given
as a response.  The @b{Assoc-Result} should have the @var{assoc-Result} attribute set to either
@b{reject-permanent} or @b{reject-transient}.  The @var{assoc-Diagnostic} can also optionally be set
to indicate why the reject has occurred.
@end itemize
@item Assoc-ID (Integer)
The @b{Assoc-ID} of the requested operation to which the reply applies.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or note the @b{Assoc} response was completed.
@end table
@item ERRORS
Ths function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-class,
bad-context, bad-result, bad-session, miscellaneous, no-such-operation, not-supported,
session-terminated.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Assoc-req()}.@footnote{@xref{Assoc-req}.}
@end table

@page
@node Bind
@section Bind()
@table @b

@item NAME
@b{Bind} --- open a gateway control session.

@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_bind(
        OM_object           session,
        OM_workspace        workspace,
        OM_private_object  *bound_session_return
);
@end verbatim
@end format

@item DESCRIPTION
This function opens a gateway control session.  It creates a @b{Session} OM object describing the
session suitable for supplying to other XGCP functions.  A session must be opened before any
gateway control service interactions can take place.

If the OM attribute @b{requester-Title} is specified, only one unconnected session can be opened
with the same value of the OM attribute.  There can be multiple connected or partially connected
session objects with the same @b{requester-Title}.

To allow for the implementation of @dfn{Automatic Association Management}, it is undefined as to
whether @i{Bind()} causes any communication with the remote gateway control entity.

@item ARGUMENTS

@table @i

@item Session (Object(Session))
Specifies a program together with other details of the service required.  This argument may be
either a public object or a private object.  The constant @b{Default-Session}
(@samp{GCP_DEFAULT_SESSION}) may also be used as the value of this argument, causing a new session
to be created with default values for all its OM attributes.

@item Workspace (Workspace)
Specifies the workspace (obtained from a call to @i{Initialize()}) which is to be associated with
the session.  All function results from gateway control operations using this session will be
returned as private objects in this workspace.  If the Session argument is a private object, it must
be a private object in this workspace.

Whether the resulting session uses @dfn{Automatic Association Management (AAM)} or not depends upon
the negotiation of this feature (using the @i{Netogiate()} interface function) for the workspace
supplied as an argument.

@end table

@item RESULTS

@table @i

@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the function completed successfully.

@item Bound-Session (Object(Session))
Upon successful completion, contains an instance of a gateway control session that may be used as an
argument to other functions (e.g. @i{Service-req()}).  This will be a new private object if the
value of @b{Session} was @b{Default-Session} or a public object, otherwise, it will be that supplied
as an argument.  In the later case, the session provided should not be already in use.  The function
will supply default values for any of the OM attribute that were not present in the @b{Session}
instance supplied as an argument.  It will also set the value of the @b{File-Descriptor} OM
attribute (the value will be @b{No-Valid-File-Descriptor} (@samp{GCP_NO_VALID_FILE_DESCRIPTOR}) if
the functionality is not supported).

When @dfn{Automatic Association Management (AAM)} is disabled for the @i{Workspace} with
@i{Negotiate()}, any session bound using @i{Bind()} is unconnected and may only be used to receive
and send ACSE-related primitives, (i.e. it cannot be used for Gateway Control Service operations).

@end table

@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-address,
bad-session, bad-title, miscellaneous, not-supported, too-many-sessions.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION} and
@perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES}.

@item SEE ALSO
@i{Unbind()},@footnote{@xref{Unbind}.}
@i{Negotiate()}.@footnote{@xref{Negotiate}.}

@end table

@page
@node Close
@section Close()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Close} --- terminate a gateway control association.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_close(
        OM_private_object       session,
        OM_private_object       context,
        OM_object               argument
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to request the termination of a gateway control association.  The service
is defined as an unconfirmed service.  No reply is expected.

This operation may only be called in synchronous mode.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The connected session against which this operation is performed.  This must be a private object
previously returned as part of an @b{Accept-Result} or @b{Open-Argument}.  This session object must
have @dfn{Automatic Association Management (AAM)} disabled, and it must be in a connected state.
@item Context (Object(Context))
The gateway control context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object.

Once a session is connected or partially connected, the precedence rules for common parameters
within the @b{Session} and the @b{Context} objects are different.  Once connected, the responder
address and title cannot be overridden by the @b{Context} object.
@item Argument (Object(Close-Argument))
The information supplied as the argument of a @b{Close} operation.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
The value @b{success} indicates that the operation was completed.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}, or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}:
bad-argument, bad-class, bad-context, bad-session, miscellaneous, missing-type, session-terminated,
reply-limit-exceeded, time-limit-exceeded.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION} and
@perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Abort()}.@footnote{@xref{Abort}.}
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{MAP-CLOSE} request primitive of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Error-Message
@section Error-Message()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Error-Message} --- return an error message describing a particular error.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

OM_sint gcp_error_message(
        GCP_status          error,
        OM_sint             length,
        unsigned char      *error_text_return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function returns an error message string that describes the error.  The caller provides a
buffer-address and buffer-length argument.  The error message is stored in the client's buffer.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Error (Status)
@item Length
The length of the buffer.  The error text buffer is an unsigned character array.  This is necessary
if the intent is to support NLS (the X/Open Native Language System).
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Error-text (String)
A message describing the error.  The error message text is terminated by a NUL character.

The error message text will be truncated if the length of the error-text-buffer is less than the
length of the error message text.
@item Length (Integer)
Indicates the length of the returned mesage.  If the @b{length} parameter is 0 or the
@b{*error_text_return} parameter is NULL, then the @b{length_return} value indicates the amount of
buffer space required to host the error message.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function returns no errors.  (A default error message reports faulty arguments or other
problems).
@end table

@page
@node Get-Assoc-Info
@section Get-Assoc-Info()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Get-Assoc-Info} --- retrieve negotiated association values.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_get_assoc_info(
        OM_private_object       receive_result_or_argument,
        OM_uint                 request_mask,
        OM_uint                 result_mask,
        OM_public_object        *pres_layer_args,
        OM_public_object        *acse_args,
        OM_public_object        *gcp_assoc_args
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function returns the negotiated association values corresponding to an incoming
@b{Result-Or-Argument} object previously supplied by @i{Receive()}.  The caller provides a
@b{request_mask} to identify which values are to be returned in result objects.

This function may be used with @dfn{Automatic Association Management} enabled or disabled or with
@dfn{Automatic Message Handling} enabled or disabled.  In any case, the values returned are those
associated with the underlying association within which the incoming @b{Result-Or-Argument} arrived.
In connectionless environments, the values returned are those associated with the incoming
@b{Result-Or-Argument} object (for example, @b{Responder-Address}).

Certain requested values may not be available for the input object (that is, inappropriate for the
underlying protocol) and may therefore be absent from the result.  The values actually returned are
indicated by the function result.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Result-Or-Argument (Object(*))
This object contains an asynchronous response or indication, as previously returned to the user from
the @i{Receive()} function.
@item Request-Mask (Integer)
The @b{request-mask} indicates which association values should be returned as result objects.  The
mask is composed of bit values that must be set @emph{on} (@samp{1}) to request that the
corresponding association value be returned.  Association values that can be obtained by calling
this function are:
@itemize @bullet
@c @item presentation-context-layer
@c @item responder-address
@c @item responder-title
@c @item application-context
@c @item authentication-information
@c @item acse-user-info
@c @item CMIS-functional-units
@c @item access-control
@c @item user-info
@c @item SMASE-user-data
@item presentation-Context-List
@item responder-Address
@item responder-Title
@item application-Context
@c @item security-Context
@c @item authentication-Information
@item application-Context-List
@item version-List
@end itemize
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Result-Mask (Integer)
A mask indicating which association values have been returned as part of the result objects below.
This mask has the same structure as the @i{Request-Mask} argument.  All bits @emph{off} (@samp{0})
indicates no values were available for the input object.
@item Pres-Layer-Args (Object(Presentation-Layer-Args))
Upon completion of this function, this object contains the negotiated values associated with the
@b{Result-Or-Argument} object.  This object is returned only when one of the following
@i{Result-Mask} bits is set @emph{on}:
@itemize
@item @samp{GCP_T_PRESENTATION_CONTEXT_LIST}
@end itemize
Otherwise, @perr{GCP_ABSENT_OBJECT} is returned for this object.
@item Acse-Args (Object(Acse-Args))
Upon completion of this function, this object contains the negotiated values associated with the
@b{Result-Or-Argument} object.  This object is returned only when one of the following
@i{Result-Mask} bits is set @emph{on}:
@itemize
@item @samp{GCP_T_RESPONDER_ADDRESS}
@item @samp{GCP_T_RESPONDER_TITLE}
@item @samp{GCP_T_APPLICATION_CONTEXT}
@c @item @samp{GCP_T_SECURITY_CONTEXT}
@c @item @samp{GCP_T_AUTHENTICATION_INFORMATION}
@end itemize
Otherwise, @perr{GCP_ABSENT_OBJECT} is returned for this object.
@item Gcp-Assoc-Args (Object(Gcp-Assoc-Args))
Upon completion of this function, this object contains the negotiated values associated with the
@b{Result-Or-Argument} object.  This object is returned only when the one of the following
@i{Result-Mask} bits is set @emph{on}:
@itemize
@item @samp{GCP_T_APPLICATION_CONTEXT_LIST}
@item @samp{GCP_T_VERSION_LIST}
@end itemize
otherwise, @perr{GCP_ABSENT_OBJECT} is returned for this object.
@ignore
@item Standard-Externals (Object(Standard-Externals))
Upon completion of this function, this object contains the negotiated connection values associated
with the @b{Result-Or-Argument} object.  This object is returned only when the
@i{Result-Mask} bit @samp{GCP_T_SMASE_USER_DATA} is set on; otherwise, @perr{GCP_ABSENT_OBJECT}
is returned for this object.
@end ignore
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return error constants
@perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION} or
@perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES}.
@end table

@page
@node Get-last-error
@section Get-last-error()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Get-last-error} --- retrieve secondary return code of the most recent function call
Communications or System error.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_get_last_error(
        OM_workspace        workspace,
        OM_uint32          *additional_return_error
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to return additional error information related to the last function call that
returned a status of:
@itemize
@item @perr{GCP_E_COMMUNICATIONS_PROBLEM}
@item @perr{GCP_E_BROKEN_SESSION}
@item @perr{GCP_E_INVALID_CONNECTION_ID}
@item @perr{GCP_E_SYSTEM}
@end itemize
The returned integer value is implementation dependent.

In a multiple thread environment where there are multiple XGCP function calls, additional error
information is stored in the workspace of the invoking call on a thread basis.  The
@command{gcp_get_last_error} call must be invoked from the same thread.

For most XGCP function calls, the Workspace anchor to store additional information is dervied from
the @samp{bound_session}.  For @i{Bind()} and @i{Wait()}, the workspace parameter on the calls is
used.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Workspace (Workspace)
The workspace (obtained from a prior call to @i{Initialize()} of the function call that had the
status error.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the function call completed.
@item Additional-Error (Integer)
The secondary integer related to the last function call that returned a Communications or System
error.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return error constants
@perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE} or
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION}.
@end table

@page
@node Initialize
@section Initialize()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Initialize} --- initialize the interface.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

OM_workspace gcp_initialize(
        void
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function performs any necessary initialization of the interface and allocates a workspace.  It
must be called before any other gateway control interface functions are called.  It may be called
multiple times, in which case each call returns a workspace that is distinct from other workspaces
created by @i{Initialize()} but not yet deleted by @i{Shutdown()}.
@item ARGUMENTS
None.
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Workspace (Workspace)
Upon successful completion, contains a handle to a workspace in which OM objects can be created and
manipulated.  Objects created in this workspace, and only such objects, may be used as arguments to
the other gateway control interface functions.  This function returns NULL if it fails.
@end table
@item ERRORS
None.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Shutdown()}.@footnote{@xref{Shutdown}.}
@item EXAMPLE
@sp 1
@smallformat
@verbatim
OM_workspace workspace;

if ((workspace = gcp_initialize()) == NULL) {
	exit(1);
}
@end verbatim
@end smallformat
@end table

@page
@node Issue
@section Issue()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Issue} --- issue pending service requests and responses.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_issue(
        OM_private_object       session,
        OM_private_object       context,
        OM_sint32               dialog_id
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is one of a group of dialog handling functions: @i{Open()}, @i{Accept()},
@i{Refuse()}, @i{Issue()}, @i{Close()}, @i{Abort()}, @i{Receive()}, used to manage GCP dialog
when @dfn{Automatic Association Management (AAM)} is disabled on a session.  When @dfn{AAM} is
enabled on a session, this dialog handling function is neither necessary nor permitted.

This function is used to issue pending gateway control service requests and responses.  The
function can only be called in synchronous mode.

When an @i{Open()}, @i{Accept()} or @i{Refuse()} function is called, the underlying Gateway Control
Service provider might not issue the corresponding MGCP, MEGACO or H.248 transactions immediately,
but may wait for the accumulation of gateway control service requests or responses to combine with
the dialog.  The @i{Issue()} function tells the underlying Gateway Control Service provider to
release pending dialog handling primitives with the service requests and responses currently
accumulated.

One typical order of dialog handling function calls would be as follows:
@enumerate
@item @i{Bind()} --- bind the session.
@item @i{Open()} --- open the dialog.
@item @i{Service-req()} --- generate one or more service requests.
@item @i{Issue()} -- issue pending dialog handing and accumulated service requests or responses.
@item @i{Service-req()} --- generate one or more service requests.
@item @i{Close()} --- close the dialog (also issuing any pending dialog handling and accumulated
service requests or responses).
@end enumerate

Note that MGCP only permits one transaction (and, therefore, one service request or response) per
message.  MEGACO and H.248 support multiple transactions per message, and multiple service requests
or responses per transaction.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The gateway control session against which this operation is to be performed.  This must be a private
object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}
@item Context (Object(Context))
The gateway control context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object or the constant @b{Default-Context} (@samp{GCP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT}).
@item Dialog-ID (Integer)
The @b{Dialog-ID} of the requested dialog on which to issue accumulated service requests and
responses.  This @b{Dialog-ID} must have been returned from a call to
@i{Open()}@footnote{@xref{Open}.} or @i{Receive()}@footnote{@xref{Receive}.} for the corresponding
association for which pending service requests and responses are being issued.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the @b{Issue} request was completed.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-class,
bad-context, bad-result, bad-session, miscellaneous, no-such-operation, not-supported,
session-terminated.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION} and
@perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES}.
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{GCP-DELIM} request primitive of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Negotiate
@section Negotiate()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Negotiate} --- negotiate features of the interface and service.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_negotiate(
        GCP_feature         feature_list[],
        OM_workspace        workspace
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function negotiates features of the interface; each feature is represented as an Object
Identifier.  Several features are defined and registered within this specification.  Features may
also include gateway control services packages, vendor extensions, and new features defined in
future versions of this specification.  Features can be negotiated after a workspace has been
initialized, and can be renegotiated any time until the workspace is discarded.  Note that all
sessions on a given workspace share the same features. 
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Feature-List (Feature-List)
An ordered sequence of features, each represented by an object identifier and a request value.  The
request value can contain one of the following values: Activate, Deactivate, Query State, and Query
Supported.

The sequence is terminated by an object identifier having no components (a length of zero and a
value of the data pointer in the C representation).  The response value is returned upon completion
of the Negotiate invocation.

In the C binding, the Feature-List argument is a single array of structures of type
@type{GCP_feature}, which is defined as:

@smallexample
@verbatim
#define GCP_ACTIVATE            0
#define GCP_DEACTIVATE          1
#define GCP_QUERY_STATE         2
#define GCP_QUERY_SUPPORTED     3

typedef struct {
        OM_object_identifier    feature;
        OM_sint                 request;
        OM_boolean              response;
} GCP_feature;
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

The following Features are defined and registered by this specification:
@itemize
@item @b{Gateway Control Packages} @*
The GSM Gateway Control package and the ANSI Gateway Control package are specified in @ref{Interface
Class Definitions}.  Additional Gateway Control packages may be specified in the future.  Note that
multiple Gateway Control Packages can be activated within the same workspace.

@item @b{Automatic Association Management} @*
This feature provides for automatic establishment and release of the underlying protocol
associations.@footnote{@xref{Automatic Association Management}.} The Object-Identifier
associated with this feature is @samp{@{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1)
openss7(29591) xom-packages(1) xgcp(2) common(1) automatic-association-management(1) @}}.  This
Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @*
@samp{GCP_AUTOMATIC_ASSOCIATION_MANAGEMENT}.

Automatic Association Management is enabled by default.

@item @b{Automatic Message Handling} @*
This feature provides for automatic establishment and release of the underlying protocol
messages.@footnote{@xref{Automatic Message Handling}.} The Object-Identifier associated with this
feature is @samp{@{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591)
xom-packages(1) xgcp(2) common(1) automatic-message-handling(2) @}}.  This Object-Identifier is
represented by the constant @*
@samp{GCP_AUTOMATIC_DIALOG_HANDLING}.

@item @b{Automatic Dialog Handling} @*
This feature provides for automatic establishment and release of the underlying protocol
transaction.@footnote{@xref{Automatic Dialog Handling}.} The Object-Identifier associated with
this feature is @samp{@{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591)
xom-packages(1) xgcp(2) common(1) automatic-transaction-handling(3) @}}.  This Object-Identifier is
represented by the constant @*
@samp{GCP_AUTOMATIC_TRANSACTION_HANDLING}.

@item @b{Automatic ASN.1 BER Encoding and Decoding} @*
This feature provides for automatic encoding and decoding of OM class and attribute types using
ASN.1 BER.@footnote{@xref{Encoding and Decoding}.}  The Object-Identifier associated with this
feature is @samp{@{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591)
xom-packages(1) xgcp(2) common(1) automatic-decoding(4) @}}.  This Object-Identifier is represented
by the constant @*
@samp{GCP_AUTOMATIC_DECODING}.

Automatic ASN.1 BER Encoding and Decoding is enabled by default.

@end itemize

Gateway Control Services packages are also negotiated as part of the Feature-List.  Gateway Control
Services packages may be defined by the OpenSS7 Project, by standards organizations or consortia, by
vendors, or by users.

Registered Object Identifiers representing future features and vendor extensions may also be included
in the Feature-List for negotiation.
@item Workspace
The handle to the workspace for which features are negotiated.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Whether or not the function completed successfully.
@item Response (Boolean-List)
If the function completed successfully, this result contains an ordered list of Boolean values, with
the same number of elements as the Feature-List.  The significance of the values is shown as
follows:
@multitable @columnfractions .15 .15 .5
@item @b{Request} @tab @b{Response} @tab @b{Meaning}
@item Activate @tab True @tab Activated
@item @tab False @tab Cannot activate feature (or the feature is not supported).
@item Deactivate @tab True @tab Deactivated
@item @tab False @tab Cannot deactivte feature (or the feature is not supported).
@item Query-state @tab True @tab Activated
@item @tab False @tab Deactivated (or the feature is not supported).
@item Query-supported @tab True @tab Supported
@item @tab False @tab Not supported
@item Invalid @tab True @tab Cannot be returned
@item @tab False @tab Invalid argument
@end multitable
In the C binding, this result is combined with the Feature-List argument as a single array of
structures of type @type{GCP_feature} as defined above.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or @b{Library-Error} ``miscellaneous''.

This function does not return a @b{Communications-Error}, nor any gateway control errors.

The function can also return the error constants @perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION} and @perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCE}.
@item EXAMPLE
@sp 1
@smallformat
@verbatim
GCP_status status;
OM_workspace workspace;
int i;

workspace = gcp_initialize();

GCP_feature feature_list[] = {
	{GCP_COMMON_PKG, GCP_ACTIVATE, 0}
	, {GCP_GSM_PKG, GCP_ACTIVATE, 0}
	, {GCP_GSM_SM_PKG, GCP_ACTIVATE, 0}
	, {GCP_GSM_LS_PKG, GCP_ACTIVATE, 0}
	, {GCP_GSM_IN_PKG, GCP_ACTIVATE, 0}
	, {GCP_GSM_CH_PKG, GCP_ACTIVATE, 0}
	, {NULL, 0, 0}
};

if ((status = gcp_negotiate(feature_list, workspace)) != GCP_SUCCESS)
	exit(1);

for (i = 0; i < 6; i++)
	if (!feature_list[i].response)
		exit(1);
@end verbatim
@end smallformat
@end table

@page
@node Open
@section Open()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Open} --  Request establishment of a Gateway Control Services dialog.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_open(
        OM_private_object       session,
        OM_private_obect        context,
        OM_object               argument,
        OM_private_object       *result_return,
        OM_sint32               *dialog_id_return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to request the creation of a gateway control entity association dialog.  The
service is defined as a confirmed service: a reply is expected.

This operation may be called in asynchronous mode.  Note that when operating in this mode, results
may not only be locally discarded (when @b{Abandon()} is used), as may be done with other
asynchronous calls.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The gateway control session against which this operation is performed.  This must be a private
object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}  This session must also have
ADH@footnote{@xref{Automatic Dialog Handling}.} disabled.
@item Context (Object(Context))
The gateway control context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object.
@item Argument (Object(Assoc-Argument))
The information supplied as the argument of an @b{Assoc} operation.  This is an @b{Assoc-Argument}
object with optional ACSE information contained within it.  When called asynchronously, a partially
connected @b{Session} object is returned in the Result of this function.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
If the function is called synchronously, the value @b{success} indicated that the action was
completed.  If called asynchronously, it indicates that the operation was initiated.
@item Result (Object(*))
Upon successful completion of a synchronous call, the results is one of the following:
@itemize
@item When the @i{Open} request has been accepted by the remote peer, one instance of the OM class
@b{Accept-Result} Object is returned.  This @b{Accept-Result} object contains a @var{session}
attribute that returns a @b{Session} object for which a transaction has been fully formed.  The
@b{Accept-Result} object also contains the final negotiated transaction parameters for the new
transaction.
@item When the @i{Open} request has been refused by the remote peer, one instance of the OM class
@b{Refuse-Result} Object is returned.  This @b{Refuse-Result} object contains information as to why
the transaction was refused.  No @var{session} attribute is present in this result and no
transaction session
is formed.
@item When the @i{Open} request has been aborted by the remote peer or by the provider, one instance
of the OM class @b{Abort-Argument} is returned.  This @b{Abort-Argument} object contains information
pertaining to the abort.  No @var{session} attribute is present in this result and no transaction session
is formed.
@end itemize
Upon successful completion of an asynchronous call, a partially formed transaction @b{Session} object is
returned in the @i{Result}.

@table @b
@item Note:
The original @b{Session} object passed to this function is unaffected and still remains in
the bound or associated state.  This session object can still be used in additional concurrent
@i{Open()} or @i{Receive()} function calls.
@end table
@item Dialog-ID (Integer)
The returned @b{Dialog-ID} of the gateway control operation when used asynchronously.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad argument, bad-class,
bad-context, bad-session, miscellaneous, missing-type, session-terminated, reply-limit-exceeded,
time-limit-exceeded.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION} and
@perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Abort()},@footnote{@xref{Abort}.}
@i{Assoc-rsp()},
@i{Accept()},@footnote{@xref{Accept}.}
@i{Refuse()}.@footnote{@xref{Refuse}.}
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{GCP-OPEN} request primitive of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Receive
@section Receive()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Receive} --- get the argument of an operation or retrieve the (partial) result of an
asynchronously executed operation.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_receive(
        OM_private_object   session,
        OM_sint            *mode_return,
        OM_sint            *primitive_return,
        OM_sint            *completion_flag_return,
        GCP_status         *operation_status_return,
        OM_private_object  *result_or_argument_return,
        OM_sint32          *invoke_or_dialog_id_return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to retrieve the argument of an invoked operation and to retrieve a partial
result (linked reply) or the completed result of a previous asynchronous operation.

The function results include two status indications.  One, called @b{Status}, indicates that the
function call itself was successful; it is always returned.  The other, called @b{Operation-Status},
is used to return the status of the completed asynchronous operation, and is only returned if there
is one.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The moble application session against which this gateway control operation is performed.  This
must be a private object previously returned from @i{Bind()},@footnote{@xref{Bind}.} or a connected
or partially connected session object returned from @i{Open()},@footnote{@xref{Open}.}
@i{Accept()},@footnote{@xref{Accept}.} or @i{Receive()}.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Takes an error value if one of the library errors or system errors listed below occurred during
execution of this function.  Takes the value @b{success} (@samp{GCP_SUCCESS}) if this function
returned successfuly.
@item Primitive (Integer)
The gateway control service primitives (@samp{GCP_SERVICE_IND}, @samp{GCP_SERVICE_CNF}).

The GCP association service primitives (@samp{GCP_OPEN_IND}, @samp{GCP_ACCEPT_CNF},
@samp{GCP_REFUSE_CNF}, @samp{GCP_DELIM_IND}, @samp{GCP_CLOSE_IND}, @samp{GCP_ABORT_IND},
@samp{GCP_P_ABORT_IND}).

Determines the operation of this result or argument.

This result is only valid if @b{Completion-Flag} has the value @b{completed}, @b{incoming} or
@b{partial}.
@item Mode (Integer)
This indicates the mode of an indication.  When @b{confirmed} (@samp{GCP_T_CONFIRMED}) the invoked
operation has to be confirmed, a reply is expected.  When @b{non-confirmed}
(@samp{GCP_T_NON_CONFIRMED}), the requested service is not to be confirmed.

This result is only valid if @b{Completion-Flag} has the value @b{incoming}.
@item Completion-Flag (Integer)
This flag indicates the statue of the received data, if any.

@table @asis
@item @b{completed}
(@samp{GCP_COMPLETED}) @*
This flag indicates that a @emph{final} response has been received.  For gateway control
primitives this may be the confirmation for a service request or the last confirmation of a linked
reply.  In the latter case, the @b{Result-Or-Argument} parameter will be the @b{Absent-Object}.
@item @b{incoming}
(@samp{GCP_INCOMING}) @*
An indication has been received.
@item @b{nothing}
(@samp{GCP_NOTHING}) @*
There are no indications or confirmations to receive.  Further, there are no outstanding
asynchronous requests.
@item @b{outstanding}
(@samp{GCP_OUTSTANDING}) @*
There are no indications or confirmations to receive.  There are still outstanding requests, but no
confirmations have yet arrived.
@item @b{parial}
(@samp{GCP_PARTIAL})
A confirmation has been received which is part of a linked reply.  This is used for all but the last
in a series of linked replies.  (See completed, above.)
@end table
This result is only valid if @b{Status} has the value @b{success}.  In that case, the validity of
the other results is given as follows:
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .1 .1 .1 .1 .1
@item Completed @tab yes(1) @tab no @tab yes @tab yes(1) @tab yes
@item Incoming @tab yes @tab yes @tab no @tab yes @tab yes
@item Nothing @tab no @tab no @tab no @tab no @tab no
@item Outstanding @tab no @tab no @tab no @tab no @tab no
@item Partial(3) @tab yes(1) @tab no @tab yes @tab yes(1) @tab yes
@end multitable
@item Operation-Status (Status)
Takes an error value if a communications error occurred during the execution of the asynchronous
operation, and @b{success} (@samp{GCP_SUCCESS}) otherwise.  The possible error values are listed for
each individual operation in the corresponding function description.

This result is only valid if @b{Completion-Flag} has the value @b{completed} or @b{partial}.
@item Result-or-Argument (Object(*))
This object contians the results of an asynchronous request, or information about an indication.
The class of object received is dependent upon the values of the @b{Primitive} and
@b{Completion-Flag} parameters.  The following table for the three applicable @b{Completion-Flag}
values.  The actual class returned is dependent on the value of @b{Primitive}.
@table @asis
@item @b{Completion-Flag} set to @b{completed}:
@multitable @columnfractions .25 .25
@item Service-Result @tab @samp{GCP_SERVICE_CNF}
@item Service-Error @tab @samp{GCP_SERVICE_CNF}
@item Service-Reject @tab @samp{GCP_SERVICE_CNF}
@item Accept-Result @tab @samp{GCP_ACCEPT_CNF}
@item Refuse-Result @tab @samp{GCP_REFUSE_CNF}
@item Absent-Object @tab All confirmations.
@end multitable
Note that @b{Absent-Object} may be returned in two cases:
@enumerate
@item The confirmation contains no data.
@item As the terminator of a linked reply list.  In this case, the @b{Invoke-or-Dialog-ID} parameter
can be used to determine which linked reply has been terminated.
@end enumerate
@item @b{Completion-Flag} set to @b{incoming}:
@multitable @columnfractions .25 .25
@item Service-Argument @tab @samp{GCP_SERVICE_IND}
@item Open-Argument @tab @samp{GCP_OPEN_IND}
@item Close-Argument @tab @samp{GCP_CLOSE_IND}
@item Abort-Argument @tab @samp{GCP_ABORT_IND}
@end multitable
@item @b{Completion-Flag} set to @b{partial}:
@multitable @columnfractions .25 .25
@item Linked-Reply-Argument @tab
@end multitable
@end table
For @b{Completion-Flag} values of @b{completed} or @b{partial}, the @b{Result-or-Argument} parameter
is valid only if the @b{Operation-Status} contains the value @b{success}.  The parameter is not
valid for @b{Completion-Flag} values of @b{nothing} or @b{outstanding}.
@item Invoke-or-Dialog-ID (Integer)
The Dialog-ID or Dialog-ID of the operation whose error, result or argument is being returned.

This result is only valid of the @b{Status} has the value @b{success} and @b{Completion-Flag} has
the value @b{completed}, @b{partial} or @b{incoming}.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-class,
bad-context, bad-session, miscellaneous, session-terminated, time-limit-exceeded.

This function does not report any @b{Communication-Errors}, in its @b{Status} result.  (Any such
errors related to the completed asynchronous operation is reported in @b{Operation-Status}, as
described above.)

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION} and
@perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES}.
@end table

@page
@node Refuse
@section Refuse()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Refuse} --  refuse an indicated association operation.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_refuse(
        OM_private_object       session,
        OM_private_object       context,
        OM_object               response,
        OM_sint32               dialog_id
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is one of a group of dialog handling functions: @i{Open()}, @i{Accept()},
@i{Refuse()}, @i{Issue()}, @i{Close()}, @i{Abort()}, @i{Receive()}, used to manage the GCP dialog
when AAM is disabled on a session.  When AAM is enabled on a session, this dialog handling
function is neither necessary nor permitted.

This function is used to refuse a previously indicated @b{Open} operation.  This function can only
be called in syncrhonous mode.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The gateway control session against which this operation is to be performed.  This must be a
private object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}
@item Context (Object(Context))
The gateway control context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object or the constant @b{Default-Context} (@samp{GCP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT}).
@item Response (Object(Refuse-Result))
The information supplied in refusal of the previously indicated @b{Open} operation.
This is an instance of OM class @b{Refuse-Result}, indicating that the open indication is to be
refused.  The user provides alternate ACSE parameters in this object as input to the service
provider.  The @b{refuse-Reason} and @b{diagnostic-Information} can be set to indicate why the
reject occured.
@item Dialog-ID (Integer)
The @b{Dialog-ID} of the requested dialog to which the reply applies.  This @b{Dialog-ID} must have
been returned from a call to @i{Receive()} for the corresponding association that is being accepted.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the @b{Refuse} response was completed.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-class,
bad-context, bad-result, bad-session, miscellaneous, no-such-operation, not-supported,
session-terminated.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION} and
@perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES}.
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{GCP-OPEN} response primitive (with a parameter indicating
refusal) of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Release-req
@section Release-req()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Release-req} ---
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_release_req(
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@end table
@item ERRORS
@end table

@page
@node Release-rsp
@section Release-rsp()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Release-rsp} ---
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_release_rsp(
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@end table
@item ERRORS
@end table

@page
@node Service-req
@section Service-req()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Service-req} --- request gateway control service.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_service_req(
        OM_private_object   session,
        OM_private_object   context,
        OM_object           argument,
        OM_private_object  *result_return,
        OM_sint32          *invoke_id_return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to request gateway control service.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The gateway control session against which this operation is performed.  This must be a private
object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.
@item Context (Object(Context))
The gateway control context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object or the constant @b{Default-Context} (@samp{GCP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT}).

The service may be requested in a confirmed mode or a non-confirmed mode.  In confirmed mode, a
reply is expected.
@item Argument (Object(Service-Argument))
The information supplied as the argument of a gateway control service request is an instance of a
subclass of the OM class @b{Service-Argument}.  Normally, concrete subclasses of this class are
defined in Gateway Control Services packages.  For example, the @b{MO-Forward-SM-Arg} subclass of
@b{Service-Argument} is defined in the GSM Short Message Services package
(@pxref{MO-Forward-SM-Arg}) and may be used as an argument to this function.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
If the function is called synchronously, the values @b{success} indicated that the action was
completed.  If called asynchronously, it indicates that the operation was initiated.
@item Result (Object(*))
Upon successful completion of a synchronous call, when the operation was requested in a confirmed
mode, the result is one of the following:
@itemize
@item When the service is requested in a non-confirmed mode, no results are expected and the constant
@b{Absent-Object} (@samp{GCP_ABSENT_OBJECT}) is returned as the result.
@item When a confirmed mode services is requested, this is indicated by an instance of the OM class
@b{Service-Result}, or @b{Service-Error},
or when multiple replies are provided, an instance of OM
class @b{Multiple-Reply}, which contains a set of instances of the OM class
@b{Service-Linked-Reply-Argument}.  Each @b{Service-Linked-Reply-Argument} contains exactly one of
the following OM attributes:
@itemize ---
@item service-Result
@item service-Error
@item processing-Failure
@end itemize
@end itemize
@item Dialog-ID (Integer)
The @b{Dialog-ID} of the initiated gateway control service operation when invoked asynchronously.
It is significant in the case of a confirmed mode request only.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}:
bad-argument, bad-class, bad-context, bad-session, miscellaneous not-supported, session-terminated,
reply-limit-exceeded, time-limit-exceeded.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION} or
@perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Abandon()},@footnote{@xref{Abandon}.}
@i{Service-rsp()}.@footnote{@xref{Service-rsp}.}
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{GCP-XXX} request primitive of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Service-rsp
@section Service-rsp()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Service-rsp} --- reply to a requested gateway control service operation.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_service_rsp(
        OM_private_object   session,
        OM_private_object   context,
        OM_object           response,
        OM_sint32           invoke_id
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to reply to a previously invoked confirmed gateway control service
operation.  This function can only be called in synchronous mode.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The gateway control session against which the operation is performed.  This must be a private
object previously returned from @i{Bind()}.
@item Context (Object(Context))
The gateway control context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private
object or the constant @b{Default-Context} (@samp{GCP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT}).
@item Response (Object(*))
The information supplied as response to an @b{service} operation.  The response is one of the
following:
@itemize
@item An instance of a concrete subclass of the OM class @b{Service-Result} as the response.
@item An instance of a concrete subclass of the OM class @b{Service-Error} as the response,
including the problem cause and its associated parameter that may be returned. @xref{Service-Error}.
@item An instance of a concrete subclass of the OM class @b{Service-Reject} including the problem
cause and its associated parameter may be returned: duplicate-invocation, mistyped-argument,
resource-limitation, unrecognized-operation.
@item When a service request requires multiple responses, this is indicated by one or more
@i{Service-rsp()} calls, once for each response, followed by a final ``empty'' @i{Service-rsp()}.
Each @i{Service-rsp()} call includes a response that contains an instance of a concrete subclass of
OM class @b{Service-Linked-Reply-Argument}, containing exacly one of the following OM attributes:
@itemize ---
@item @var{service-Result}
@item @var{service-Error}
@item @var{processing-Failure}
@end itemize
The final ``empty'' @i{Service-rsp()} call includes a response that contains only the constant
@b{Absent-Object} (@samp{GCP_ABSENT_OBJECT}).
@end itemize
For more details about the OM classes and OM attributes mentioned above, refer to @ref{Interface
Class Definitions}.
@item Dialog-ID (Integer)
The @b{Dialog-ID} of the requested operation to which the reply applies.  This is the
@b{Dialog-ID}
that was returned from a call to @i{Receive()} that indicated the service request to which this
service response corresponds.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the action response was completed.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-class,
bad-context, bad-error, bad-linked-reply, bad-result, bad-session, miscellaneous, no-such-operation,
not-supported, session-terminated.

This function can return a @b{Communications-Error}.

This function can also return the error constants
@perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION} or
@perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Receive()},@footnote{@xref{Receive}.}
@i{Service-req()}.@footnote{@xref{Service-req}.}
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{GCP-XXX} response primitive of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Service-parameter
@section Service-parameter()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Service-parameter} -- 
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_xxx(
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
@item ARGUMENTS
@item RESULTS
@item ERRORS
@item CORRESPONDENCE
This function corresponds to the @var{GCP-PARAMETER} request primitive of 3GPP TS 29.002 Section 7.
@end table

@page
@node Shutdown
@section Shutdown()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Shutdown} --- delete a workspace and the associated resources.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_shutdown(
        OM_workspace    workspace
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function deletes a workspace established by @i{Initialize()}@footnote{@xref{Initialize}.} and
all the associated resources.  It may enable the service to release resources.

All the remaining opened sessions are closed, all the remaining OM objects are deleted, and the
workspace is deleted.

No other function may reference the specified workspace after it has been deleted.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Workspace (Workspace)
Specifies the workspace (obtained from a call to @i{Initialize()}) which is to be deleted.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Inidcates whether or not the shutdown function succeeded.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return the error constants
@perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE} or
@perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Initialize()}.@footnote{@xref{Initialize}.}
@item EXAMPLE
@sp 1
@smallformat
@verbatim
OM_workspace workspace;
GCP_status status;

if ((workspace = gcp_initialize()) == NULL)
	exit(1);

/* perform functions within the workspace */

if ((status = gcp_shutdown(workspace)) != GCP_SUCCESS)
	exit(1);
exit(0);
@end verbatim
@end smallformat
@end table

@page
@node Transaction-pnd
@section Transaction-pnd()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Transaction-pnd} --- notify of a pending requested gateway control transaction.
@item SYNOPSIS
@item DESCRIPTION
@item ARGUMENTS
@item RESULTS
@item ERRORS
@end table

@page
@node Transaction-req
@section Transaction-req()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Transaction-req} --- request a gateway control transaction.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_transaction_req(
        OM_private_object   session,
        OM_private_object   context,
        OM_object           argument,
        OM_private_object   *result_return,
        OM_sint32           *transaction_id-return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is sued to request a gateway control transaction.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Session (Object(Session))
The gateway control session against which this transaction is issued.  This must be a private object
previously returned from @i{Bind()}.
@item Context (Object(Context))
The gateway control context to be used for this transaction (not to be confused with a ``Context''
in the MEGACO/H.248 protocol).  This argument must be a private object or the constant
@b{Default-Context} (@samp{GCP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT}).

The transaction may be requested in a confirmed mode or a non-confirmed mode.  In confirmed mode, a
reply is expected.
@item Argument (Object(Transaction-Request))
The information supplied as the argument of a gateway control transaction request is an instance of
a subclass of the OM class @b{Transaction-Request}.  Normally, concrete subclasses of this class are
defined in Gateway Control packages.  For example, the @b{H248-Transaction-Request} subclass of
@b{Transaction-Request} is defined in the H.248 package (@pxref{H248-Transaction-Request}) and may
be used as an argument to this function.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
If the function is called synchronously, the values @b{success} indicated that the action was
completed.  If called asynchronously, it indicates that the operation was initiated.
@item Result (Object(*))
Upon successful completion of a synchronous call, when the transaction was requested in a confirmed
mode, the result is one of the following:
@itemize
@item When the transaction is requested in a non-confirmed mode, no results are expected and the
constant @b{Absent-Object} (@samp{GCP_ABSENT_OBJECT}) is returned as the result.
@item When a confirmed mode transaction is requested, this is indicated by an instance of the OM
class @b{Transaction-Response} or @b{Transaction-Error},
or when multiple replies are provided, an instance of OM class @b{Multiple-Reply}, that contains a
set of instances of the OM class @b{Service-Linked-Reply}, which contains a set of instances of the
OM class @b{Transaction-Segmented-Reply}.  Each @b{Transaction-Linked-Reply-Argument} contains
exactly one of the following OM attributes:
@itemize ---
@item transaction-Result
@item transaction-Error
@item processing-Failure
@end itemize
@end itemize
@end table
@item ERRORS
@end table

@page
@node Transaction-rsp
@section Transaction-rsp()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Transaction-rsp} --- reply to a requested gateway control transaction.
@item SYNOPSIS
@item DESCRIPTION
@item ARGUMENTS
@item RESULTS
@item ERRORS
@end table

@page
@node Unbind
@section Unbind()

@table @b

@item NAME
@b{Unbind} --- unbind from a gateway control session.

@item SYNOPSIS

@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_unbind(
        OM_private_object   session
);
@end verbatim
@end format

@item DESCRIPTION
This function terminates the given gateway control session, and makes the argument unavailable
for use with other interface functions (except @i{Bind()}).

Note that this means the results of any outstanding asynchronous operations that were initiated
using the given @b{Session} can no longer be received.  Any such operations may be terminated
prematurely.  For this reason it is recommended that all outstanding asynchronous operations are
processed using @i{Receive()} before @i{Unbind()} is called.

The unbound session may be used again as an argument to @i{Bind()} possibly after modification by
the XOM functions (reference @b{XOM}).  When it is no longer required, it must be deleted using the
XOM functions.

The @b{Library-Error} ``session-terminated'' will be returned as the error value to a synchronous
function call using a terminated session.

@item ARGUMENTS

@table @i

@item Session (Object(Session))
The gateway control session that is to be unbound.  This must be a private object previously returned by
@i{Bind()}.  The value of the @b{File-Descriptor} OM attribute will be @b{No-Valid-File-Descriptor}
(@samp{GCP_NO_VALID_FILE_DESCRIPTOR}) if the function succeeds.  The other OM attributes will be
unchanged.

@end table

@item RESULTS
@table @i

@item Status (Status)
Takes the value @b{success} if @b{Session} was unbound, and take an error value if not.

@end table

@item ERRORS
This function can return a @b{System-Error} or one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-class,
bad-session, miscellaneous, session-terminated.

This function does not return a @b{Communications-Error} or any gateway control errors.

This function can return the error constants
@perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION} or
@perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES}.

@item SEE ALSO
@i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}

@end table

@page
@node Validate-object
@section Validate-object()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Validate-object} --- analyze OM-Object and return Bad-Argument details if necessary.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_validate_obejct(
        OM_workspace        workspace,
        OM_object           test_object,
        OM_private_object  *bad_argument_return
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to analyze any OM-Object to validate its structure.  It may be used as a debug
tool prior to issuing other XGCP function calls.  It may also be used after XGCP function calls that
return @perr{GCP_E_BAD_ARGUMENT}.

It is not the intention of this function to be able to validate all OM objects in all packages.  Its
purpose is to validate only those primary OM objects that may be validly passed as arguments to
function defined in this specification.

This function is not intended to validate private objects, only client or service generated public
objects.  When passed a private object, provided that the private object is of a known OM class,
success will be returned.  That is, the function does not analyze the contents of a private object.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Test-Object (Object(*))
The OM-Object to analyze and validate.
@item Workspace (Workspace)
Specifies the workspace (obtained from a call to @i{Initialize()}, in which @b{Bad-Argument} OM
object will be created if the return status is @perr{GCP_E_BAD_ARGUMENT}.  Test-Objects does not
need to be from this workspace.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the validation was successful.  A value of @perr{GCP_E_BAD_ARGUMENT}
indicates a validation failure and problem details are in the @b{Bad-Argument} parameter.
@item Bad-Argument (Object(Bad-Argument))
When Status is @perr{GCP_E_BAD_ARGUMENT}, the result is one instance of the OM class
@b{Bad-Argument}.
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return the error constants
@perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES},
@perr{GCP_E_SYSTEM} or
@perr{GCP_E_BAD_ARGUMENT}.
@item EXAMPLE
Following is a @samp{C} binding example of validating a user-generated public object from the GSM
MAP Short Message services package:
@sp 1
@smallformat
@verbatim
OM_object argument = {
    OM_OID_DESC(OM_CLASS, GCP_C_MO_FORWARD_SM_ARG)
    , {GCP_SM_RP_DA, OM_S_OBJECT, {
        OM_OID_DESC(OM_CLASS, GCP_C_SM_RP_DA)
        , {GCP_IMSI, GCP_S_TBCD_STRING, OM_STRING("\x21\x43\x65\x87")}
        , OM_NULL_DESCRIPTOR
      } }
    , {GCP_SM_RP_OA, OM_S_OBJECT, {
        OM_OID_DESC(OM_CLASS, GCP_C_SM_RP_OA)
        , {GCP_NO_SM_RP_OA, OM_S_NULL, NULL}
        , OM_NULL_DESCRIPTOR
      } }
    , {GCP_SM_RP_UI, OM_S_OCTET_STRING, (OM_string) {data_length, data_pointer} }
    , {GCP_IMSI, GCP_S_TBCD_STRING, OM_STRING("\x21\x43\x65\x87")}
    , OM_NULL_DESCRIPTOR
};
GCP_status status;
OM_private_object bad_argument;

status = gcp_validate_object(workspace, argument, &bad_argument);

if (status == GCP_E_BAD_ARGUMENT)
    exit(1);
@end verbatim
@end smallformat
@end table

@page
@node Wait
@section Wait()
@table @b
@item NAME
@b{Wait} --- wait for the availability of manaement message(s) from one or more bound Sessions.
@item SYNOPSIS
@format
@verbatim
#include <xom.h>
#include <xgcp.h>

GCP_status gcp_wait(
        GCP_waiting_sessions    bound_session_list[],
        OM_workspace            workspace,
        OM_uint32               timeout
);
@end verbatim
@end format
@item DESCRIPTION
This function is used to suspend the caller until a gateway control operation is available for a
bound Session.  A timeout value specifies the maximum number of milliseconds to suspend before
returning when no messages are available.  It should be noted that, in a multithreaded environment,
@i{Wait()} may report the presence of a message that will have been processed by another thread by
the time the first thread call @i{Receive()} to process it.
@item ARGUMENTS
@table @i
@item Bound_session_list (Bound-Session-List)
An ordered sequence of gateway control sessions to wait upon.  The last value must evaluate to
NULL.
@item Workspace (Workspace)
Specifies the workspace (obtained from a call to @i{Initialize()}, in which a @type{GCP_status}
object will be created if the return status is other than @perr{GCP_SUCCESS}.  Session(s)
specified in the @b{bound-session-list} do no need to be from this workspace.
@item Timeout (Integer)
The maximum number of milliseconds to suspend before returning when there are no messages from the
list of Session(s).  A value of zero specifies an indefinite timeout.
@end table
@item RESULTS
@table @i
@item Status (Status)
Indicates whether or not the function completed successfully.  A successful completion means that
either a message is available from a Session or that the timeout limit has been reached.  The
@i{Receive()} function must be called to determine whether a message is available.  (See note in
description above.)
@item Activated (Boolean-List)
If the function was completed successfully, this result is an ordered list of Boolean values, with
the same number of elements as the @b{bound-session-list}.  If true, each value indicates that the
corresponding Session has data waiting in queue.  If false, each valud indicates that the
corresponding Session does @emph{not} has data waiting in queue.

In the C binding, this result is combined with the @b{bound-session-list} argument as a single array
of structures of type @type{GCP_waiting_sessions}, which is defined as:
@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
        OM_private_object   bound_session;
        OM_boolean          activated;
} GCP_waiting_sessions;
@end verbatim
@end smallexample
@end table
@item ERRORS
This function can return one of the following @b{Library-Errors}: bad-address, bad-session,
bad-workspace, miscellaneous, session-terminated.

The function can also return the error constants @perr{GCP_NO_WORKSPACE},
@perr{GCP_INVALID_SESSION} and @perr{GCP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCE}.
@item SEE ALSO
@i{Initialize()},@footnote{@xref{Initialize}.}
@i{Receive()},@footnote{@xref{Receive}.}
@i{Bind()}.@footnote{@xref{Bind}.}
@item EXAMPLE
Following is a @samp{C} language binding example of using the @i{Wait()} function in conjunction
with the @i{Receive()} function to process indications or confirmations:
@sp 1
@smallformat
@verbatim
GCP_waiting_sessions bound_session_list[] =
    { {session, OM_FALSE} , {NULL,} };

for (;;) {
    if ((status = gcp_wait(bound_session_list, workspace, 0)) != GCP_SUCCESS)
        exit(1);
    if (bound_session_list[0].activated) {
        OM_sint mode;
        OM_sint primitive;
        OM_sint completion_flag;
        GCP_status operation_status;
        OM_private_object result;
        OM_sint32 received_invoke_id;

        if ((status = gcp_receive(session, &mode, &primitive, &operation_status,
                            &result, &received_invoke_id)) != GCP_SUCCESS)
                exit(1);
        /* process received result */
        om_delete(result);
    }
}
@end verbatim
@end smallformat
@end table

@node Interface Class Definitions
@chapter Interface Class Definitions

@menu
* Global Call Hierarchy::
* Common GCP Package::
* MGCP Package::
* MGCP Extension Packages::
* MEGACO Package::
* MEGACO Extension Packages::
* H.248 Package::
* H.248 Extension Packages::
@end menu

This chapter defines, in alphabetical order, the OM classes that constitute the Common GCP package
(COMMON), the MGCP package (MGCP), the MEGACO package (MEGACO), and the H.248 package (H248).  The
common errors are defined in the Common GCP package, while the variant specific errors are defined
in the MGCP, MEGACO and H.248 packages.

The Object-Identifier associated with the Common GCP package is:

@quotation
@{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591) xom-packages(1) xgcp(2) common(1) @}
@end quotation

This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @b{Common-Package} (@samp{GCP_COMMON_PKG}).

The Object-Identifier associated with the MGCP package is:

@quotation
@{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591) xom-packages(1) xgcp(2) mgcp(2) @}
@end quotation

This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @b{MGCP-Package} (@samp{GCP_MGCP_PKG}).

The Object-Identifier associated with the MEGACO package is:

@quotation
@{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591) xom-packages(1) xgcp(2) megaco(3) @}
@end quotation

This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @b{MEGACO-Package} (@samp{GCP_MEGACO_PKG}).

The Object-Identifier associated with the H.248 package is:

@quotation
@{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591) xom-packages(1) xgcp(2) h248(4) @}
@end quotation

This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @b{H248-Package} (@samp{GCP_H248_PKG}).

The XGCP API may also make use of Gateway Control Services packages.  These optional packages define
OM classes that are additional to those in the Gateway Control packages, to extend the capabilities
of the interface.

The concepts of OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation are briefly described in @ref{Relationship to Data
Abstraction Services}.  The notation is introduced below.  Both are fully explained in the XOM
Specification (see reference XOM). 

Each OM class is described in a separate section, which identifies the OM attributes specific to
that OM class.  The OM classes are listed in alphabetic order; the OM attributes for each OM class
are listed in the order in which they occur in corresponding ASN.1 definitions.  The OM attributes
that may be found in an instance of an OM class are those OM attributes specific to that OM class
and those inherited from each of its super-classes.  The OM class-specific OM attributes are defined
in a table.  The table gives the name of each OM attribute, the syntax of each of its values, any
restrictions upon the length (in bits, octets (bytes), or characters) of each value, any
restrictions upon the number of values, and the value, if any, the @i{OM-Create()} function
supplies.

@subheading Vendor Extensions

Vendors may provide additional OM attributes in their implementation of particular OM classes and
their individual documentation will give details of the specification and usage of these.
Extensions must be negotiated through use of the @i{Negotiate()} function.

All such OM attributes have default values which lead to the behaviour described in this
specification.

@node Global Call Hierarchy
@section Global Call Hierarchy

@menu
* Interface Common Objects::
* Interface Common Error Definitions::
* MGCP Package Objects::
* MEGACO Package Objects::
* H248 Package Objects::
@end menu

This section depicts the hierarchical organization of the OM classes defined in this chapter, and
thus shows which OM classes inherit additional OM attributes from their super-classes.
Sub-classification is indicated by indentation, and the names of abstract OM classes are rendered in
italics.  Thus, for example, the concrete class @b{SCTP-Address} is an immediate subclass of the
abstract class @i{Address} which in turn is an immediate subclass of the abstract class @i{Object}.
The @i{Create()} function applies to all concrete OM classes.

The application is not permitted to create or modify instances of some OM classes, because these OM
classes are only returned by the interface and never supplied to it (for example, some subclasses of
@i{Error}).

@itemize
@item @i{Object} (defined in the XOM Specification: see reference @b{XOM})
@end itemize

@node Interface Common Objects
@subsection Interface Common Objects

@itemize
@item @i{Object} (defined in the XOM Specification: see reference @b{XOM})
@end itemize

@node Interface Common Error Definitions
@subsection Interface Common Error Definitions

@itemize
@item @i{Object} (defined in the XOM Specification: see reference @b{XOM})
@end itemize

@node MGCP Package Objects
@subsection MGCP Package Objects

@itemize
@item @i{Object} (defined in the XOM Specification: see reference @b{XOM})
@end itemize

@node MEGACO Package Objects
@subsection MEGACO Package Objects

@itemize
@item @i{Object} (defined in the XOM Specification: see reference @b{XOM})
@end itemize

@node H248 Package Objects
@subsection H248 Package Objects

@itemize
@item @i{Object} (defined in the XOM Specification: see reference @b{XOM})
@end itemize

@node Common GCP Package
@section Common GCP Package

@menu
* Basic GCP Types::
* Abort-Argument::
* Abort-Result::
* Accept-Result::
* Acse-Args::
* Action::
* Action-Request::
* Action-Reply::
* Address::
* Application-Context-List::
* Assoc-Argument::
* Assoc-Result::
* Close-Argument::
* Command-Request::
* Context::
* Extension::
* Generic-Service-Argument::
* Generic-Service-Result::
* Gcp-Assoc-Args::
* Notice-Result::
* Message::
* Open-Argument::
* Operation-Argument::
* Operation-Error::
* Operation-Reject::
* Operation-Result::
* P-Abort-Result::
* Presentation-Context::
* Presentation-Layer-Args::
* Refuse-Result::
* Release-Argument::
* Release-Result::
* Command-Reply::
* Service-Argument::
* Service-Error::
* Service-Reject::
* Service-Result::
* Session::
* Title::
* Transaction-Request::
* Transaction-Response::
* Transaction-Pending::
* Version-List::
@end menu

The Common GCP package introduces some additional OM syntaxes that are derivations of the
@i{String(Octet)} syntax.  These additional OM syntaxes are used to represent digit strings for
telephony numbers and SCCP addresses.

@node Basic GCP Types
@subsection Basic GCP Types

@menu
* Auth-Data::
* Authentication-Header::
* Context-ID::
* Domain-Name::
* Error-Code::
* Error-Text::
* IP4-Address::
* IP6-Address::
* Message-ID::
* MTP-Address::
* Path-Name::
* Port-Number::
* Security-Parm-Index::
* Sequence-Num::
@end menu

@node Auth-Data
@subsubsection Auth-Data
@vindex Auth-Data

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item auth-Data
A @i{String(Octet)} of 12 to 32 octets in length.
@end vtable

@node Authentication-Header
@subsubsection Authentication-Header
@vindex Authentication-Header

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item sec-Parm-Index
A @b{Security-Parm-Index} object.
@item seg-Num
A @b{Sequence-Num} object.
@item ad
A @b{Auth-Data} object.
@end vtable

@node Context-ID
@subsubsection Context-ID
@vindex Context-ID

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item context-ID
An integer value between 0 and 4294967295 (inclusive).  The following values are significant:
@table @b
@item 0
The @i{NULL}  context value.
@item 0xFFFFFFFE
The @i{CHOOSE} context value.
@item 0xFFFFFFFF
The @i{ALL} context value.
@end table
@end vtable

@node Domain-Name
@subsubsection Domain-Name
@vindex Domain-Name

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item name
An IA5 string containing a properly formated domain name.
@item port-Number
A optional @b{Port-Number} object.
@end vtable

@node Error-Code
@subsubsection Error-Code
@vindex Error-Code

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item error-Code
An integer value between 0 and 65535 inclusive.
@end vtable

@node Error-Text
@subsubsection Error-Text
@vindex Error-Text

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item error-Text
An IA5 string containing the human readable error text.
@end vtable

@node IP4-Address
@subsubsection IP4-Address
@vindex IP4-Address

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item address
A 4-octet octet string containing the IP version 4 address.
@item port-Number
An optional @b{Port-Number} object.
@end vtable

@node IP6-Address
@subsubsection IP6-Address
@vindex IP6-Address

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item address
A 16-octet octet string containing the IP version 6 address.
@item port-Number
An optional @b{Port-Number} object.
@end vtable

@node Message-ID
@subsubsection Message-ID
@vindex Message-ID

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node MTP-Address
@subsubsection MTP-Address
@vindex MTP-Address

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node Path-Name
@subsubsection Path-Name
@vindex Path-Name

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item path-Name
An IA5 string between 1 and 64 octets long (inclusive).
@end vtable

@node Port-Number
@subsubsection Port-Number
@vindex Port-Number

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item port-Number
An integer between 0 and 65535, inclusive.  The value zero (0) has special meaning.
@end vtable

@node Security-Parm-Index
@subsubsection Security-Parm-Index
@vindex Security-Parm-Index

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item security-Parm-Index
A 4-octet octet string.
@end vtable

@node Sequence-Num
@subsubsection Sequence-Num
@vindex Sequence-Num

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item sequence-Num
A 4-octet octet string.
@end vtable

@node Abort-Argument
@subsection Abort-Argument
@vindex Abort-Argument

An instance of abstract OM class @i{Abort-Argument} represents the base information passed as the
@i{Argument} argument to the @i{Abort()} function (@pxref{Abort}) or returned from the @i{Receive()}
function (@pxref{Receive}) in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result for a user abort indication.

This OM class is an abstract class with several defined concrete subclasses:
@b{MGCP-Abort-Argument}, @b{MEGACO-Abort-Argument} and @b{H248-Abort-Argument}.  An instance of this
OM class has the OM attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object} and @i{Error}.  It does not define
any attributes of its own.  Because abort causes are Gateway Control package specific, this abstract
OM class does not define any of the values for the @var{problem} or @var{parameter} attributes of
the @i{Error} super-class.

@node Abort-Result
@subsection Abort-Result
@vindex Abort-Result

An instance of abstract OM class @i{Abort-Result} represents the base information passed as the
@i{Argument} argument to the @i{Abort-req()} function (@pxref{Abort-req}) or returned from the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result for an association
abort indication.

This OM class is an abstract class with several defined concrete subclasses: @b{MGCP-Abort-Result},
@b{MEGACO-Abort-Result} and @b{H248-Abort-Result}.  An instance of this OM class has the OM
attributes of its super-classes: @i{Object} and @i{Error}.  It does not define any attributes of its
own.  Because abort result error codes are Gateway Control package specific, this abstract class
does not define any of the @var{problem} or @var{parameter} syntaxes of the @i{Error} super-class.

@node Accept-Result
@subsection Accept-Result
@vindex Accept-Result

An instance of abstract OM class @i{Accept-Result} represents the base information passed as the
@i{Response} argument to the @i{Accept()} function (@pxref{Accept}) or returned from the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result for an accept
indication.  This OM class is an abstract class with several defined concrete subclasses:
@b{MGCP-Accept-Result}, @b{MEGAGO-Accept-Result} and @b{H248-Accept-Result}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of it super-classes, @i{Object}, and additionally
the OM attributes listed in @tabref{39}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab039,39,OM Attributes of OM class @i{Accept-Result}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var

@item session
Used to return to the user a fully formed dialog session object.  This object may be used for all
future interface calls pertaining to this new dialog.

@end vtable

When this object is received as a @i{Result-Or-Argument} result in a call to @i{Receive()}
(@pxref{Receive}), the @i{Get-Assoc-Info()} interface function can be used to retrieve additional
details concerning the association.  @xref{Get-Assoc-Info}.


@node Acse-Args
@subsection Acse-Args
@vindex Acse-Args

An instance of OM class @b{Acse-Args} identifies ACSE specific arguments that will be used during
association establishment to a remote peer entity.  These can be specified in the @b{Session} object
if @dfn{Automatic Association Management (AAM)} is enabled, or in the @b{Assoc-Argument} or
@b{Assoc-Result} object if @dfn{AAM} is disabled.  An instance of this OM class has the OM
attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{31}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab031,31,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Acse-Args}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item responder-Address
Indicates the address of the responding program named by @var{responder-Title}.
@item responder-Title
Indicates the name of the program which will be used to service gateway control requests.  It may be
a distinguished name (instance of OM class Form1) or a registered name (instance of OM class Form2)
which is used in name/network address resolution phased to get the application process title, the
application entity qualifier and the presentation address.  It may also be the Entity-Name of the
responding program.
@item application-Context
The application context name proposed by the user to be used on the gateway control association.
When automatic dialog handling is enabled on the session, the application context will be selected
by the Gateway Control Service provider consistent with the Gateway Control Service request or
indication.  Gateway Control Service packages define a set of security contexts that are applicable
to the service package.
@item security-Context
The security context name proposed by the user to be used on the gateway control association.  By
default the security context is not present.  Gateway Control Service packages define a set of
security contexts that are applicable to the service package, defined as integers (Form 1 local
values) or Object-Identifiers (Form 2 global values), for use as the value of this object.  For
example, for H.248 Version 3 there are four possibilities:
@itemize
@item ESP header in accordance with Section 5 of RFC 2406, for IP version 6.
@item AH header in accordance with Section 5 of RFC 2402, for IP version 6.
@item ESP or AH header as above, but tunnelling IP version 6 over IP version 4, or vise verse.
@item The interim AH scheme described in ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 (09/2005) Clause 10.2.
@end itemize
@item authentication-Information
Provides authentication information for use with the security context (if any).
@end vtable

Note that, although this OM attribute is named after ACSE (Association Control Service Execution),
which is an OSI layer, none of MGCP, MEGACO nor H.248 provide an ACSE layer.  Nevertheless, MGCP,
MEGACO and ACSE support the concept of an association and requires equivalent arguments as would the
OSI or SS7 ACSE layer.

@node Action
@subsection Action
@vindex Action

An instance of OM class @var{Action} represents an action, that is a sequence of commands, pending
notifications or responses that are applied to a gateway control context.  This OM class is an
abstract class containing several defined subclasses: @b{Action-Request} and @b{Action-Reply}.
An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its super-classes, @b{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{23}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab023,23,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Action}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var

@item context
Provides the Gateway Control Service context, which is the context as defined by the Standards,
rather than the Context supplied as an argument to most XGCP interface functions.

@end vtable

@node Action-Request
@subsection Action-Request
@vindex Action-Request

An instance of OM class @var{Action-Request} represents an action that is a sequence of commands
that are applied to a gateway control context.  This OM class is an abstract class containing
several defined classes: @b{MGCP-Action-Request}, @b{MEGACO-Action-Request} and
@b{H248-Action-Request}.  An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its super-classes,
@b{Object} and @b{Action}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{24}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab024,24,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Action-Request}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item context-Id
A @b{Context-ID} object providing the MEGACO context identifier to which the commands in this action
apply.
@item context-Request
An optional @b{Context-Request} object specifying some of the attributes requested to be assigned to
a context or set of contexts.
@item context-Attr-Audit-Req
An optional @b{Context-Attr-Audit-Req} object that, when present, requests the audit of some of the
characteristics associated with the context or a selected set of contexts.
@item command-Requests
One or more commands of OM class @b{Command-Request} or derived classes, that are applicable to the
context of the action.
@end vtable

@node Context-Request
@subsection Context-Request
@vindex Context-Request

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item priority
An optional call priority.
@item emergency
An optional boolean value indicating an emergency call.
@item topology-Req
Zero or more @b{Topology-Request} objects describing the topology of the context.
@item ieps-Call-Ind
An optional boolean value indicating an IEPS call.
@item context-Prop
Zero or more @b{Property-Parm} object providing property parameters for the context.
@item context-List
Zero or more @b{Context-ID} objects representing a list of contexts.
@end vtable

@node Context-Attr-Audit-Request
@subsection Context-Attr-Audit-Request
@vindex Context-Attr-Audit-Request

An instance of OM class @b{Context-Attr-Audit-Request} represents a request to audit attributes of a
context or set of contexts.  This OM class contains the attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object},
plus the additional OM attributes listed in @tabref{67}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab067,67,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Context-Attr-Audit-Request}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item topology
An boolean value that, when TRUE, specifies that the topology of the context is requested.
@item emergency
An boolean value that, when TRUE, specifies that the emergency status of the context is requested.
@item priority
An boolean value that, when TRUE, specifies that the priority of the context is requested.
@item ieps-Call-Ind
An boolean value that, when TRUE, specifies that the IEPS call indicator of the context is requested.
@item context-Prop-Aud
Zero or more @b{Ind-Aud-Property-Parm} objects, each specifying that the context property is
requested.
@item select-Priority
An optional @b{Priority} object that specifies which value of priority to audit.
@item select-Emergency
An optional @b{Emergency} object that specifies which emergency settings to audit.
@item select-Ieps-Call-Ind
An optional @b{Ieps-Call-Ind} object that specifies which IEPS call indicators to audit.
@item select-Logic
An enumerated value specifying what logical operation to perform across selections.  The value can
be one of the following:
@table @b
@item and-audit-select
The audit selection items must all be met for the context to be selected for audit.
@item or-audit-select
Only one audit selection item must be met for the context to be selected for audit.
@end table
When not specified, the default is @b{and-audit-select}.
@end vtable

@node Action-Reply
@subsection Action-Reply
@vindex Action-Reply

An instance of OM class @var{Action-Reply} represents the response to an action that is a
sequence of responses that result from commands applied to a gateway control context.  This OM class
is an abstract class containing several defined classes: @b{MGCP-Action-Reply},
@b{MEGACO-Action-Reply} and @b{H248-Action-Reply}.  An instance of this OM class has the OM
attributes of its super-classes, @b{Object} and @b{Action}, and additionally the OM attributes
listed in @tabref{25}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab025,25,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Action-Reply}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item context-Id
An object of OM class @b{Context-ID} that specifies the primary context to which this action reply
corresponds.
@item error-Descriptor
An optional object of OM class @b{Error-Descriptor} that is used to describe an error situation.
@item context-Reply
An optional object of OM class @b{Context-Request} that is used to return requested audit properties
of the context.
@item command-Reply
One or more command replies of OM class @b{Command-Reply} or derived classes, that are applicable to
the context of the action.
@end vtable

@node Address
@subsection Address
@vindex Address

An instance of OM class Address represents the address of a particular gateway control entity.  It
is used to define the specific location to contact a particular gateway control entity.  An instance
of this OM class has all of the attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object}, and additionally the OM
attributes listed in @tabref{32}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab032,32,OM Attributed of OM class @b{Address}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item internet-Address
The address is represented using an octet string that contains the encoding of an IP version 4 or IP
version 6 address (@pxref{String(Internet-Address)}) with the following considerations:
@itemize @bullet
@item The encoded address @emph{shall} have both an IP address and port number.
@item The encoded address @emph{shall} not have a host name in the address.
@item The encoded address will distinguish between IP version 4 format and IP version 6 format using
the address family indicator.
@end itemize
@end vtable

@node Application-Context-List
@subsection Application-Context-List
@vindex Application-Context-List

An instance of OM class @b{Application-Context-List} represents a list of application context names.
An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{35}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab035,35,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Application-Context-List}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item application-Context-Name
This attribute is one or more instances of an application context name consisting of an integer
syntax or an object-identifier syntax.  The integer syntax is only applicable to some Gateway
Control packages (e.g. the H.248 service package).
@end vtable

@node Assoc-Argument
@subsection Assoc-Argument
@vindex Assoc-Argument

An instance of OM class @b{Assoc-Argument} is the information supplied as an argument of an ACSE
Association operation to be performed.  This object is passed to @i{Assoc-req()} or returned from
@i{Receive()}.  An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object},
and additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{27}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab027,27,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Assoc-Argument}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item presentation-Layer-Args
Indicates any presentation layer arguments needed during association establishment.  If none are
supplied, the Gateway Control Service provider will supply defaults if required.
Presentation layer arguments are not required for MGCP.  For MEGACO and H.248; however, the
presentation layer arguments specify whether the ASN.1 BER binary encoding of ITU-T Recommendation
H.248.1 (09/2005) Annex A or the text encoding of Annex B is used on the association.
@item acse-Args
Indicates ACSE related arguments that will be used during association establishment.  If none are
supplied, the Gateway Control Service provider will supply defaults if required.
@item gcp-Assoc-Args
Indicates GCP related arguments that will be used during association establishment.  If none are
supplied, the Gateway Control Service provider will supply defaults if required.
@item session
Used to return an associated @b{Session} object.  This attribute must be empty when @i{Assoc-req()}
is called, and is supplied as a @b{Result} parameter by the Gateway Control Service provider upon
return from that call.  When the object is returned from @i{Receive()}, this attribute is a
partially associated @b{Session} object.  Partially associated session objects can be aborted by
calling @i{Abort-req()} using the new partially associated session object.  Partially associated
session objects can become fully associated by calling @i{Assoc-rsp()}.  To accept or refuse the new
association, call @i{Assoc-rsp()} using the new partially associated session object that was
returned by @i{Receive()} for the association indication.
@end vtable

@node Assoc-Result
@subsection Assoc-Result
@vindex Assoc-Result

An instance of OM class @b{Assoc-Result} is the information supplied as a response of an ACSE
Associate operation to be performed.  This object is passed to @i{Assoc-rsp()} or returned from
@i{Receive()}.  An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object},
and additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{28}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab028,28,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Assoc-Result}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item presentation-Layer-Args
Indicates any presentation layer arguments needed during association establishment.  If none are
supplied, the Gateway Control Service provider will supply defaults when required.
Presentation layer arguments are not required for MGCP.  For MEGACO and H.248; however, the
presentation layer arguments specify whether the ASN.1 BER binary encoding of Annex B or the text
encoding of Annex C is used on the association.
@item acse-Args
Indicates ACSE related arguments that will be used during association establishment.  If none are
supplied, the Gateway Control Service provider will supply defaults when required.
@item gcp-Assoc-Args
Indicates GCP related arguments that will be used during association establishment.  If none are
supplied, the Gateway Control Service provider will supply defaults when required.
@item session
Used to return to the user an associated session object.  This object may be used for all future
interface calls pertaining to this new association.
@end vtable

@node Close-Argument
@subsection Close-Argument
@vindex Close-Argument

An instance of abstract OM class @i{Close-Argument} represents the base information that is supplied
as the @i{Argument} argument to the @i{Close()} interface function (@pxref{Close}) or is returned by
the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result for a close
indication.

This OM class is an abstract class with several defined concrete subclasses:
@b{MGCP-Close-Argument}, @b{MEGACO-Close-Argument} and @b{H248-Close-Argument}.  An instance of this
abstract OM class has the OM attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object}.  It does not define any OM
attributes of its own.

@node Command-Request
@subsection Command-Request
@vindex Command-Request

An instance of OM class @var{Command-Request} represents a command issued for gateway control.  This OM
class is an abstract class containing a number of defined classes: @b{MGCP-Command-Request},
@b{MEGACO-Command-Request} and @b{H248-Command-Request}.  An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its
super-classes, @b{Object}.  This OM class does not have any defined class-specific attributes.

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item command
@item optional
@item wildcard-Return
@end vtable

@node Context
@subsection Context
@vindex Context

An instance of OM class @b{Context} comprises per operation arguments that are accepted by most of
the interface functions.  An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its super-classes,
@i{Object}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{37}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab037,37,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Context}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@table @var
@item Common Arguments
@vtable @var
@item extensions
@end vtable
@item Service Controls
@vtable @var
@item mode
@item application-Context
@item responder-Address
@item responder-Title
@end vtable
@item Local Controls
@vtable @var
@item asynchronous
@item reply-Limit
@item time-Limit
@end vtable
@end table

@node Extension
@subsection Extension
@vindex Extension

An instance of OM class @b{Extension} represents an extension to ASN.1 syntax.  This object is coded
using the @dfn{any} syntax.  The particular syntax of the extension is dependent upon the object
within which an instance of this extension object is contained.  An instance of this OM class has
the OM attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{38}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab038,38,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Extension}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific attributes:
@vtable @var
@item extension
This attribute is a syntax that represents the ASN.1 encoding of the extension complete with tags.
@end vtable

@node Generic-Service-Argument
@subsection Generic-Service-Argument
@vindex Generic-Service-Argument

An instance of OM class @b{Generic-Service-Argument} represents a generic service request
independent of a defined Gateway Control Services package.  This object is used to support service
requests that have not been defined in a Gateway Control Services package, or for a Gateway Control
Services package that is not supported by the implementation workspace.

An instance of this OM class has the attributes of its super-classes, @i{Service-Request}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{41}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab041,41,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Generic-Service-Argument}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var

@item confirmation
This attribute is a boolean value that specifies whether the operation is performed in the confirmed
or unconfirmed mode.  When performed in a confirmed mode, a response is expected.  When performed in
an unconfirmed mode, no response is expected.  This attribute determines which operations class will
be used for the underlying invoke operation.

@item operation
This attribute specifies the ROSE/TCAP operation code associated with the service request as either
an integer or object identifier.  Whether an integer or object identifier is used depends upon the
underlying ROSE/TCAP provider and may differ depending on the Gateway Control package in use. 

@item arguments
This attribute specifies the parameters of the operation invocation as one or more instances of OM
class @i{Encoding}.  This encoding class will be encapsulated in a Parameter Sequence by the
underlying ROSE/TCAP provider.

@end vtable

@node Generic-Service-Result
@subsection Generic-Service-Result
@vindex Generic-Service-Result

An instance of OM class @b{Generic-Service-Result} represents a generic service response independent
of a defined Gateway Control Services package.  This object is used to support service responses
that have not been defined in a Gateway Control Services package, or for a Gateway Control Services
package that is not supported by the implementation workspace.

An instance of this OM class has the attributes of its super-classes, @i{Service-Result}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{42}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab042,42,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Generic-Service-Result}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var

@item operation
This attribute specifies the ROSE/TCAP operation code associated with the service request as either
an integer or an object identifier.  Whether an integer or object identifier is used depends upon
the underlying ROSE/TCAP provider and may differ depending on the Gateway Control package in use.

@item response
This attribute specifies the parameters of the operation invocation as one or more instances of OM
class @i{Encoding}.  This encoding class will be encapsulated in a Parameter Sequence by the
underlying ROSE/TCAP provider.

@end vtable

@node Gcp-Assoc-Args
@subsection Gcp-Assoc-Args
@vindex Gcp-Assoc-Args

An instance of OM class @b{Gcp-Assoc-Args} represents the GCP association arguments that are
optionally supplied by the @b{Session}, @b{Assoc-Argument} or @b{Assoc-Result} objects and can be
interrogated with the @i{Get-Assoc-Info()} function.  An instance of this OM class has the OM
attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{34}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab034,34,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Gcp-Assoc-Args}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item application-Context-List
@item version-List
@end vtable

@node Notice-Result
@subsection Notice-Result
@vindex Notice-Result

An instance of abstract OM class @i{Notice-Result} represents the base information that is returned
in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a notice
indication.

This OM class is an abstract class with several defined concrete subclasses: @b{MGCP-Notice-Result},
@b{MEGACO-Notice-Result} and @b{H248-Notice-Result}.  An instance of this OM class has the OM
attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object}.  It does not define any OM attributes of its own.

@node Message
@subsection Message
@vindex Message

An instance of OM class @var{Message} represents the base information that is supplied as an
argument to the @i{Send()} function (@pxref{Send()}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()} function
(@pxref{Receive()}) when Automatic Message Handling is disabled on a @b{Session}.

This OM class is an abstract class containing several defined subclasses:
@b{MGCP-Message}, @b{MEGACO-Message} and @b{H248-Message}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its super-classes, @b{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{21}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab021,21,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Message}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item message-ID
@item transactions
One ore more transactions of OM class @b{Transaction} or derived classes.
@end vtable

@node Open-Argument
@subsection Open-Argument
@vindex Open-Argument

An instance of abstract OM class @i{Open-Argument} represents the base information that is supplied
as an argument to the @i{Open()} function (@pxref{Open}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()}
function (@pxref{Receive}) for an open indication.

This OM class is an abstract class with several defined concrete subclasses: @b{MGCP-Open-Argument},
@b{MEGACO-Open-Argument} and @b{H248-Open-Argument}.  An instance of this OM class has the OM
attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{40}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab040,40,OM Attributes of OM abstract class @i{Open-Argument}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var

@item responder-Address
Specifies the responder address (the address of the remote gateway control entity) for a bound
session object with @dfn{Automatic Association Management (AAM)} enabled.  This address takes
precedence over any @var{responder-Address} contained in the @b{Context} or @b{Session} objects.
For an associated session object, the precedence rules are different and the @i{Open-Argument}
object cannot be used to override the @var{responder-Address} contained in the @b{Session} object.

@item responder-Title
Specifies the responder title.  This title takes precedence over any @var{responder-Title} contained
in the @b{Context} or @b{Session} objects.  When not specified by any object, the Gateway Control
Service provider will not include a responder title in the open request.

@item requesting-Address
The @var{requesting-Address} contained in the @i{Open-Argument} cannot be used to override any
requesting address contained in the @b{Session} object.

@item requesting-Title
Specifies the requesting title.  This title takes precedence over any @var{requesting-Title}
contained in the @b{Context} or @b{Session} objects.  When not specified by any object, the Gateway
Control Service provider will not include a requesting title.

@item session
Used to return a partially formed dialog @b{Session} object.  This attribute must be empty when
@i{Open()} is called, and is supplied as a @i{Result} parameter by the Gateway Control Service
provider upon return from that call.  The partially formed dialog session can either be aborted with
a call to @i{Abort()} (@pxref{Abort}), or can become a fully formed dialog session with a call to
@i{Accept()} (@pxref{Accept}).  To abort the partially formed dialog session, call @i{Abort()} using
the new partially formed dialog session object.  To accept or refuse the new dialog, call
@i{Accept()} or @i{Refuse()} using the session object that received the association indication.

@end vtable

@node Operation-Argument
@subsection Operation-Argument
@vindex Operation-Argument

@node Operation-Error
@subsection Operation-Error
@vindex Operation-Error

@node Operation-Reject
@subsection Operation-Reject
@vindex Operation-Reject

@node Operation-Result
@subsection Operation-Result
@vindex Operation-Result

@node P-Abort-Result
@subsection P-Abort-Result
@vindex P-Abort-Result

An instance of OM abstract class @i{P-Abort-Result} represents the base information returned in the
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result from the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a provider abort
indication.

This OM class is an abstract class with several defined concrete subclasses:
@b{MGCP-P-Abort-Result}, @b{MEGACO-P-Abort-Result} and @b{H248-Abort-Result}.  An instance of this
OM class has the OM attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object} and @i{Error}.  It does not defined
any OM attributes of its own.

@node Presentation-Context
@subsection Presentation-Context
@vindex Presentation-Context

An instance of OM class @b{Presentation-Context} lists the presentation contexts for association
establishment.  An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object},
and additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{30}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab030,30,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Presentation-Context}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var

@item presentation-Id
The integer user identification of the presentation context.

@item presentation-Abstract
Identifies the abstract syntax.  If no value is supplied, by default the abstract syntax name is
provided by the Gateway Control package.

@end vtable

MGCP only supports a single presentation context: text encoding, and in the case of MGCP, no
@var{presentation-Abstract} need be specified.  The MGCP services package does, however, define an
Object-Identifier used to specify the default text encoding.  MEGACO/H.248 (all versions), on the
other hand, supports both ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 (09/2005) Annex A binary encoding (ASN.1
BER), as well as text encoding.  The MEGACO/H.248 services packages specify the  Object-Identifiers
to use with the @var{presentation-Abstract} OM attribute.

@node Presentation-Layer-Args
@subsection Presentation-Layer-Args
@vindex Presentation-Layer-Args

An instance of OM class @b{Presentation-Layer-Args} identifies the presentation layer arguments that
will be used during association establishment.  These can be specified in the session object if AAM
is enabled, or in the @b{Assoc-Argument} or @b{Assoc-Result} object if AAM is disabled.  An instance
of this OM class has the OM attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object}, and additionally the OM
attributes listed in @tabref{29}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab029,29,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Presentation-Layer-Args}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var

@item presentation-Context-List
The list of presentation contexts.

@end vtable

MGCP only supports a single presentation context: text encoding, and in the case of MGCP, no
presentation-Layer-Args need be specified.  On the other hand, MEGACO and H.248 (all versions) may
support ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 (09/2005) Annex A binary encoding (ASN.1 BER), or Annex B text
encoding, or both.

When used on an ``invoker-role'' session (MGC) and the transport address port number is not
specified in the @var{requester-Address} or @var{requester-Title}, the
@var{presentation-Context-List} specifies which well-known ports on which the invoker will listen
for remote Gateway Control Service indications.  There are two well-known ports defined: one for
binary encoding and another for text encoding.

@node Refuse-Result
@subsection Refuse-Result
@vindex Refuse-Result

An instance of abstract OM class @i{Refuse-Result} represents the base information that is supplied
as the @i{Response} argument to the @i{Refuse()} function (@pxref{Refuse}) or is returned by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) in the @i{Result-Or-Argument} result for a refuse
indication.

This OM class is an abstract class with several defined concrete subclasses: @b{MGCP-Refuse-Result},
@b{MEGACO-Refuse-Result} and @b{H248-Refuse-Result}.
An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object}.  It does not
define any OM attributes of its own.

@node Release-Argument
@subsection Release-Argument
@vindex Release-Argument

@node Release-Result
@subsection Release-Result
@vindex Release-Result

@node Command-Reply
@subsection Command-Reply
@vindex Command-Reply

An instance of OM class @var{Command-Reply} represents the response to a gateway control command.  This
OM class is an abstract class containing a number of defined classes: @b{MGCP-Command-Reply},
@b{MEGACO-Command-Reply} and @b{H248-Command-Reply}.  An instance of this OM class has the OM attribuges of
its super-classes, @b{Object}.  This OM class does not have any defined class-specific attributes.

@node Service-Argument
@subsection Service-Argument
@vindex Service-Argument

An instance of abstract OM class @i{Service-Argument} represents the base information that is
supplied as an argument to the @i{Service-req()} function (@pxref{Service-req}) or is returned by
the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a service indication.

This OM class is an abstract class containing several defined subclasses: @b{MGCP-Service-Argument},
@b{MEGACO-Service-Argument} and @b{H248-Service-Argument}.  An instance of this OM class has the OM
attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{43}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab043,43,OM Attributes of OM Class @i{Service-Argument}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var

@item responder-Address

@item responder-Title

@item requesting-Address

@item requesting-Title

@end vtable

@node Service-Error
@subsection Service-Error
@vindex Service-Error

An instance of abstract OM class @i{Service-Error} represents the base information that is supplied
in response to a service operation, supplied as the @i{Argument} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()}
function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned as a @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a service confirmation.

This OM class is an abstract class containing several defined subclasses: @b{MGCP-Service-Error},
@b{MEGACO-Service-Error} and @b{H248-Service-Error}.  An instance of this OM class has the OM
attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object} and @i{Error}.  As the @var{problem} values and
@var{parameter} syntaxes are Gateway Control package specific, this OM class defines no attributes
or error values of its own.

@node Service-Reject
@subsection Service-Reject
@vindex Service-Reject

An instance of abstract OM class @i{Service-Reject} represents the base information that is supplied
in response to a service operation, supplied as the @i{Argument} argument to the @i{Service-rsp()}
function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned as @i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()}
function (@pxref{Receive}) for a service confirmation.

This OM class is an abstract class containing several defined subclasses: @b{MGCP-Service-Reject},
@b{MEGACO-Service-Reject} and @b{H248-Service-Reject}.  An instance of this OM class has the OM
attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object} and @i{Error}.  As the @var{problem} values and
@var{parameter} syntaxes are Gateway Control package specific, this OM class defines no attributes
or error values of its own.

Note that when @dfn{Automatic Association Management (AAM)} or @dfn{Automatic Dialog Handling (ADH)}
are enabled on a session for which a concrete subclass of the @i{Service-Reject} is used as a
response, the @i{Service-Reject} object also represents the errors that would otherwise be reported
using a concrete subclass of @i{Abort-Argument}, @i{P-Abort-Result} (were @dfn{ADH} to be disabled)
or @i{Refuse-Result} or @i{Abort-Result} (were @dfn{AAM} to be disabled).  Therefore, when @dfn{ADH}
is enabled on a session, the @var{problem} and @var{parameter} attributes of the @i{Error}
super-class may also contain any of the error values defined for the corresponding
@i{Abort-Argument} or @i{P-Abort-Result} subclasses.  When @dfn{AAM} is enabled on a session, the
@var{problem} and @var{parameter} attributes of the @i{Error} super-class may also contain any of
the error values defined for the corresponding @i{Refuse-Result} or @i{Abort-Result} subclasses.

@node Service-Result
@subsection Service-Result
@vindex Service-Result

An instance of abstract OM class @i{Service-Result} represents the base information that is supplied
as an argument to the @i{Service-rsp()} function (@pxref{Service-rsp}) or is returned as a
@i{Result-Or-Argument} result by the @i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a service
confirmation.

This OM class is an abstract class containing several defined subclasses: @b{MGCP-Service-Result},
@b{MEGACO-Service-Result} and @b{H248-Service-Result}.  An instance of this OM class has the OM
attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object}.  As the error codes are Gateway Control package
specific, this OM class defines not attributes of its own.

@node Session
@subsection Session
@vindex Session

An instance of OM class @b{Session} identifies a particular communications link from the application
program to the Gateway Control Service provider or to a remote gateway control entity depending upon
the state of the session object.  Session objects can be created with @dfn{Automatic Association
Management (AAM)} enabled or disabled.  If @dfn{AAM} is enabled, then all of the ACSE connection
management, needed to deliver a gateway control service operation, is done by the Gateway Control
Service provider.  If @dfn{AAM} is disabled, the ACSE connection management is done by the user
before issuing or receiving Gateway Control Service operations.
The use and rules for the session object are different depending upon whether @dfn{AAM} is enabled
or disabled.  @dfn{AAM} is specified as part of @i{Negotiate()}.@footnote{@xref{Negotiate}.}
An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{36}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab036,36,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Session}}

For a description of the three types of @b{Session} object: @dfn{AAM} Enabled Session, @dfn{AAM}
Disabled Session, and Connected Session, @pxref{Session}.
The OM attributes of a @b{Session} are:

@vtable @var

@item requester-Address
Indicates the address of the requesting program named by @var{requester-Title}.  If both the
@var{requester-Address} and @var{requester-Title} are not specified, the service provider will
supply a default @var{requester-Address}.

@item requester-Title
Indicates the name of the requesting program, user of this session.  It may be a distinguished name
(instance of OM class @b{Form1}) or a registered name (instance of OM class @b{Form2}) which is used
in the name/network address resolution phase to get the application process title, the application
entity qualifier and the presentation address.  It may also be the entity-name of the requesting
program.

@item role
Indicates the roles acted by the requester.  The role value is specified by OR-ing none, one, or
more of the following values:

@table @b

@item performer-role
(@samp{GCP_T_PERFORMER_ROLE}) Responder and performer of gateway control service operations.  Unless
this role is set or implied, no indications will be returned by calls to @i{Receive()} (only
confirmations and notifications) and the Gateway Control Service provider does not need to provide
indications to the bound session user.  In the terms of the Standards, the performer role is that of
the @dfn{Media Gateway (MG)}.

@item invoker-role
(@samp{GCP_T_INVOKER_ROLE}) Requester and invoker of gateway control service operations.  If
@b{performer-role} is set and @b{invoker-role} is clear, the Gateway Control Service provider does
not need to honor operation or service requests (other than @b{Notify-Request}) from the bound
session user.  In terms of the Standards, the invoker role is that of the @dfn{Media Gateway
Controller (MGC)}.

@end table

When both role flags are clear, or this attribute is not present in the session, the Gateway Control
Service provider will still honor operation and service requests.  Implementations of this interface
are not required to permit the performer and invoker roles simultaneously.

@item file-Descriptor
Indicates the file descriptor associated with the session.  The file descriptor may be used by
implementations of the @i{Wait()} function.  The file descriptor may be used in subsequent calls to
vendor-specific system facilities to suspend the process (for example, System V @manref{poll(2s)} or
BSD @manref{select(2)}.  Its use for any other purpose is unspecified.  If the implementation does
not define any suitable suspension facilities, or if the session is not started, the value is
@b{No-Valid-File-Descriptor} (@samp{-1} or @samp{GCP_NO_VALID_FILE_DESCRIPTOR}).

@item presentation-Layer-Args
Indicates any presentation layer arguments needed during association establishment.  If none are
supplied, the Gateway Control Service providers will supply defaults when required.

When the session supports the @b{invoker-role}, the @var{presentation-Layer-Args} specifies which
encodings the invoker supports, and determines which well-known port numbers upon which the invoker
will listen for association indications.

@item acse-Args
Indicates the ACSE related arguments that will be used during association establishment.  If none
are supplied, the Gateway Control Service provider will supply defaults when required.

@item gcp-Assoc-Args
Indicates the GCP association related arguments that will be used during association establishment.
If none are supplied, the Gateway Control Services provider will supply defaults when required.

@end vtable

@node Title
@subsection Title
@vindex Title

An instance of OM class @b{Title} represents the title of a particular gateway control service
entity.  It contains various subclass types used to define the specific gateway control process or
system name responsible for a gateway control service entity.  An instances of this OM class has all
of the attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{33}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab033,33,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Title}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item internet-Address
The title is represented using an octet string that contains the encoding of an internet address,
either IP version 4 or IP version 6 address (@pxref{String(Internet-Address)}) with the following
considerations:
@itemize @bullet
@item The encoded address @emph{may} have either an IP address or a port number, or both, in the
address.
@item The encoded address @emph{shall} have a host name in the address (the host name indicated
@emph{shall not} be null).
@item The encoded address will distinguish between IP version 4 format and IP version 6 format using
the address family indicator.
@end itemize
@end vtable

@node Transaction
@subsection Transaction
@vindex Transaction

An instance of OM class @var{Transaction} represents the base information that is supplied as an
argument to the @i{Request()}, @i{Pending()} or @i{Response()} functions, or is returned by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive()}) when Automatic Message Handling is enabled on a
@i{Session}.

This OM class is an abstract class containing several defined subclasses:
@b{Transaction-Request}, @b{Transaction-Pending} and @b{Transaction-Response}.

An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object}, and
additionally the OM attributes listed in @tabref{22}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab022,22,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Transaction}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item transaction-Id
@end vtable

@vtable @var
@item context-ID
@end vtable

@node Transaction-Request
@subsection Transaction-Request
@vindex Transaction-Request

An instance of OM class @var{Transaction-Request} represents the base information that is supplied
as an argument to the @i{Request()} function (@pxref{Request()}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()}
function (@pxref{Receive}) for a transaction indication.  This OM class is an abstract class
containing several defined subclasses: @b{MGCP-Transaction-Request}, @b{MEGACO-Transaction-Request}
and @b{H248-Transaction-Request}.  An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its
super-classes, @i{Object} and @i{Transaction}, and additionally the OM attributes listed in
@tabref{20}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab020,20,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Transaction-Request}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item requests
One or more requests of OM class @b{Action-Request} or derived classes.
@end vtable

@node Transaction-Response
@subsection Transaction-Response
@vindex Transaction-Response

An instance of OM class @var{Transaction-Response} represents the base information that is supplied
as an argument to the @i{Response()} fnction (@pxref{Response()}) or is returned by the
@i{Receive()} function (@pxref{Receive}) for a transaction confirmation.  This OM class is an
abstract class containing several defined subclasses: @b{MGCP-Transaction-Response},
@b{MEGACO-Transaction-Response} and @b{H248-Transaction-Response}.  An instance of this OM class has
the OM attributes of its super-classes, @i{Object} and @i{Transaction}, and additionally the OM
attributes listed in @tabref{26}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab026,26,OM Attributes of OM class @b{Transaction-Response}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:

@vtable @var
@item responses
One or more responses of OM class @b{Action-Reply} or derived classes.
@end vtable

@node Transaction-Pending
@subsection Transaction-Pending
@vindex Transaction-Pending

An instance of OM class @var{Transaction-Pending} represents the base information that is supplied
as an argument to the @i{Pending()} function (@pxref{Pending()}) or is returned by the @i{Receive()}
function (@pxref{Receive()}) for a transaction indication.  This OM class is an abstract class
containing several defined subclasses: @b{MGCP-Transaction-Pending}, @b{MEGACO-Transaction-Pending}
and @b{H248-Transaction-Pending}.  An instance of this OM class has the OM attributes of its
super-classes, @i{Object} and @i{Transaction}.  This OM class does not have any defined
class-specific OM attributes.

@node Version-List
@subsection Version-List
@vindex Version-List

@node Common GCP Data Objects
@subsection Common GCP Data Objects

@menu
* Audit-Descriptor::
* Digit-Map-Descriptor::
* Error-Descriptor::
* Event-Buffer-Descriptor::
* Events-Descriptor::
* Media-Descriptor::
* Modem-Descriptor::
* Mux-Descriptor::
* Observed-Events-Descriptor::
* Packages-Descriptor::
* Service-Change-Descriptor::
* Signals-Descriptor::
* Statistics-Descriptor::
* Transaction-ID-Or-List::
@end menu

@node Audit-Descriptor
@subsubsection Audit-Descriptor
@vindex Audit-Descriptor

@node Digit-Map-Descriptor
@subsubsection Digit-Map-Descriptor
@vindex Digit-Map-Descriptor

@node Error-Descriptor
@subsubsection Error-Descriptor
@vindex Error-Descriptor

@node Event-Buffer-Descriptor
@subsubsection Event-Buffer-Descriptor
@vindex Event-Buffer-Descriptor

@node Events-Descriptor
@subsubsection Events-Descriptor
@vindex Events-Descriptor

@node Media-Descriptor
@subsubsection Media-Descriptor
@vindex Media-Descriptor

@node Modem-Descriptor
@subsubsection Modem-Descriptor
@vindex Modem-Descriptor

@node Mux-Descriptor
@subsubsection Mux-Descriptor
@vindex Mux-Descriptor

@node Observed-Events-Descriptor
@subsubsection Observed-Events-Descriptor
@vindex Observed-Events-Descriptor

@node Packages-Descriptor
@subsubsection Packages-Descriptor
@vindex Packages-Descriptor

@node Service-Change-Descriptor
@subsubsection Service-Change-Descriptor
@vindex Service-Change-Descriptor

@node Signals-Descriptor
@subsubsection Signals-Descriptor
@vindex Signals-Descriptor

@node Statistics-Descriptor
@subsubsection Statistics-Descriptor
@vindex Statistics-Descriptor

@node Transaction-ID-Or-List
@subsubsection Transaction-ID-Or-List
@vindex Transaction-ID-Or-List

@node MGCP Package
@section MGCP Package

@menu
* MGCP-Action-Request::
* MGCP-Action-Reply::
* MGCP-Audit-Connection-Request::
* MGCP-Audit-Connection-Response::
* MGCP-Audit-Endpoint-Request::
* MGCP-Audit-Endpoint-Response::
* MGCP-Command-Request::
* MGCP-Create-Connection-Request::
* MGCP-Create-Connection-Response::
* MGCP-Delete-Connection-Request::
* MGCP-Delete-Connection-Response::
* MGCP-Endpoint-Configuration-Request::
* MGCP-Endpoint-Configuration-Response::
* MGCP-Message::
* MGCP-Modify-Connection-Request::
* MGCP-Modify-Connection-Response::
* MGCP-Notification-Request::
* MGCP-Notification-Response::
* MGCP-Notify-Request::
* MGCP-Notify-Reply::
* MGCP-Command-Reply::
* MGCP-Restart-In-Progress-Request::
* MGCP-Restart-In-Progress-Response::
* MGCP-Transaction-Request::
* MGCP-Transaction-Response::
@end menu

@node MGCP-Action-Request
@subsection MGCP-Action-Request
@vindex MGCP-Action-Request

@node MGCP-Action-Reply
@subsection MGCP-Action-Reply
@vindex MGCP-Action-Reply

@node MGCP-Audit-Connection-Request
@subsection MGCP-Audit-Connection-Request
@vindex MGCP-Audit-Connection-Request

@node MGCP-Audit-Connection-Response
@subsection MGCP-Audit-Connection-Response
@vindex MGCP-Audit-Connection-Response

@node MGCP-Audit-Endpoint-Request
@subsection MGCP-Audit-Endpoint-Request
@vindex MGCP-Audit-Endpoint-Request

@node MGCP-Audit-Endpoint-Response
@subsection MGCP-Audit-Endpoint-Response
@vindex MGCP-Audit-Endpoint-Response

@node MGCP-Command-Request
@subsection MGCP-Command-Request
@vindex MGCP-Command-Request

@vtable @var
@item mgcp-command-Verb
@item mgcp-transaction-Id
@item mgcp-endpoint-Name
@item mgcp-version
@item 
@end vtable

@node MGCP-Create-Connection-Request
@subsection MGCP-Create-Connection-Request
@vindex MGCP-Create-Connection-Request

@node MGCP-Create-Connection-Response
@subsection MGCP-Create-Connection-Response
@vindex MGCP-Create-Connection-Response

@node MGCP-Delete-Connection-Request
@subsection MGCP-Delete-Connection-Request
@vindex MGCP-Delete-Connection-Request

@node MGCP-Delete-Connection-Response
@subsection MGCP-Delete-Connection-Response
@vindex MGCP-Delete-Connection-Response

@node MGCP-Endpoint-Configuration-Request
@subsection MGCP-Endpoint-Configuration-Request
@vindex MGCP-Endpoint-Configuration-Request

@node MGCP-Endpoint-Configuration-Response
@subsection MGCP-Endpoint-Configuration-Response
@vindex MGCP-Endpoint-Configuration-Response

@node MGCP-Message
@subsection MGCP-Message
@vindex MGCP-Message

@node MGCP-Modify-Connection-Request
@subsection MGCP-Modify-Connection-Request
@vindex MGCP-Modify-Connection-Request

@node MGCP-Modify-Connection-Response
@subsection MGCP-Modify-Connection-Response
@vindex MGCP-Modify-Connection-Response

@node MGCP-Notification-Request
@subsection MGCP-Notification-Request
@vindex MGCP-Notification-Request

@node MGCP-Notification-Response
@subsection MGCP-Notification-Response
@vindex MGCP-Notification-Response

@node MGCP-Notify-Request
@subsection MGCP-Notify-Request
@vindex MGCP-Notify-Request

@node MGCP-Notify-Reply
@subsection MGCP-Notify-Reply
@vindex MGCP-Notify-Reply

@node MGCP-Command-Reply
@subsection MGCP-Command-Reply
@vindex MGCP-Command-Reply

@vtable @var
@item mgcp-response-Code
@item mgcp-transaction-Id
@item mgcp-response-String
@end vtable

@node MGCP-Restart-In-Progress-Request
@subsection MGCP-Restart-In-Progress-Request
@vindex MGCP-Restart-In-Progress-Request

@node MGCP-Restart-In-Progress-Response
@subsection MGCP-Restart-In-Progress-Response
@vindex MGCP-Restart-In-Progress-Response

@node MGCP-Transaction-Request
@subsection MGCP-Transaction-Request
@vindex MGCP-Transaction-Request

@node MGCP-Transaction-Response
@subsection MGCP-Transaction-Response
@vindex MGCP-Transaction-Response

@node MGCP Extension Packages
@section MGCP Extension Packages

@node MEGACO Package
@section MEGACO Package

@menu
* MEGACO-Action-Request::
* MEGACO-Action-Reply::
* MEGACO-Add-Request::
* MEGACO-Add-Reply::
* MEGACO-Audit-Request::
* MEGACO-Audit-Reply::
* MEGACO-Audit-Capability-Request::
* MEGACO-Audit-Capability-Reply::
* MEGACO-Audit-Value-Request::
* MEGACO-Audit-Value-Reply::
* MEGACO-Command::
* MEGACO-Message::
* MEGACO-Modify-Request::
* MEGACO-Modify-Reply::
* MEGACO-Move-Request::
* MEGACO-Move-Reply::
* MEGACO-Notify-Request::
* MEGACO-Notify-Reply::
* MEGACO-Command-Reply::
* MEGACO-Service-Change-Request::
* MEGACO-Service-Change-Reply::
* MEGACO-Subtract-Request::
* MEGACO-Subtract-Reply::
* MEGACO-Transaction-Pending::
* MEGACO-Transaction-Request::
* MEGACO-Transaction-Response::
@end menu

@node MEGACO-Action-Request
@subsection MEGACO-Action-Request
@vindex MEGACO-Action-Request

@node MEGACO-Action-Reply
@subsection MEGACO-Action-Reply
@vindex MEGACO-Action-Reply

@node MEGACO-Add-Request
@subsection MEGACO-Add-Request
@vindex MEGACO-Add-Request

An instance of OM class @b{MEGACO-Add-Request} represents the Add Request command of MEGACO (RFC
3705).  This OM class contains the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Amm-Request}.  It does
not define any OM attributes of its own. @xref{MEGACO-Amm-Request}.

@c This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Service-Request}; plus the additional OM
@c attributes listed in @tabref{2}.
@c 
@c @tabfig{xgcp_tab002,2,OM Attributes of OM class @var{MEGACO-Add-Request}}
@c 
@c This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@c @vtable @var
@c @end vtable

@node MEGACO-Add-Reply
@subsection MEGACO-Add-Reply
@vindex MEGACO-Add-Reply

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Service-Result}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{1}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab001,1,OM Attributes of OM class @var{MEGACO-Add-Reply}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node MEGACO-Audit-Request
@subsection MEGACO-Audit-Request
@vindex MEGACO-Audit-Request

An instance of a subclass of this abstract OM class represents either an Audit Capability command
request or an Audit Value command request.  This is an abstract class that defines several derived
subclasses: @b{MEGACO-Audit-Capability-Request} and @b{MEGACO-Audit-Value-Request}.  This OM class
contains the OM attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Command-Request}; plus the additional OM
attributes listed in @tabref{72}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab072,72,OM Attributes of OM class @i{MEGACO-Audit-Request}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item audit-Descriptor
A single instance of OM class @b{Audit-Descriptor}.
@end vtable

@node MEGACO-Audit-Reply
@subsection MEGACO-Audit-Reply
@vindex MEGACO-Audit-Reply

@node MEGACO-Audit-Capability-Request
@subsection MEGACO-Audit-Capability-Request
@vindex MEGACO-Audit-Capability-Request

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Service-Request}; plus the additional OM
attributes listed in @tabref{12}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab012,12,OM Attributes of OM class @var{MEGACO-Audit-Capabilities-Command}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node MEGACO-Audit-Capability-Reply
@subsection MEGACO-Audit-Capability-Reply
@vindex MEGACO-Audit-Capability-Reply

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Service-Result}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{11}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab011,11,OM Attributes of OM class @var{MEGACO-Audit-Capabilities-Response}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node MEGACO-Audit-Value-Request
@subsection MEGACO-Audit-Value-Request
@vindex MEGACO-Audit-Value-Request

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Service-Request}; plus the additional OM
attributes listed in @tabref{10}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab010,10,OM Attributes of OM class @var{MEGACO-Audit-Value-Request}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node MEGACO-Audit-Value-Reply
@subsection MEGACO-Audit-Value-Reply
@vindex MEGACO-Audit-Value-Reply

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Service-Result}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{9}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab009,9,OM Attributes of OM class @var{MEGACO-Audit-Value-Reply}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node MEGACO-Command-Request
@subsection MEGACO-Command-Request
@vindex MEGACO-Command-Request

@node MEGACO-Message
@subsection MEGACO-Message
@vindex MEGACO-Message

@node MEGACO-Modify-Request
@subsection MEGACO-Modify-Request
@vindex MEGACO-Modify-Request

An instance of OM class @b{MEGACO-Modify-Request} represents the Modify Request command of MEGACO
(RFC 3705).  This OM class contains the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Amm-Request}.  It
does not define any OM attributes of its own. @xref{MEGACO-Amm-Request}.

@c This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Service-Request}; plus the additional OM
@c attributes listed in @tabref{4}.
@c 
@c @tabfig{xgcp_tab004,4,OM Attributes of OM class @var{MEGACO-Modify-Request}}
@c 
@c This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@c @vtable @var
@c @end vtable

@node MEGACO-Modify-Reply
@subsection MEGACO-Modify-Reply
@vindex MEGACO-Modify-Reply

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Service-Result}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{3}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab003,3,OM Attributes of OM class @var{MEGACO-Modify-Reply}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node MEGACO-Move-Request
@subsection MEGACO-Move-Request
@vindex MEGACO-Move-Request

An instance of OM class @b{MEGACO-Move-Request} represents the Move Request command of MEGACO (RFC
3705).  This OM class contains the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Amm-Request}.  It does
not define any OM attributes of its own. @xref{MEGACO-Amm-Request}.

@c This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Service-Request}; plus the additional OM
@c attributes listed in @tabref{8}.
@c 
@c @tabfig{xgcp_tab008,8,OM Attributes of OM class @var{MEGACO-Move-Request}}
@c 
@c This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@c @vtable @var
@c @end vtable

@node MEGACO-Move-Reply
@subsection MEGACO-Move-Reply
@vindex MEGACO-Move-Reply

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Service-Result}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{7}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab007,7,OM Attributes of OM class @var{MEGACO-Move-Reply}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node MEGACO-Notify-Request
@subsection MEGACO-Notify-Request
@vindex MEGACO-Notify-Request

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Command-Request}; plus the
additional OM attributes listed in @tabref{14}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab014,14,OM Attributes of OM class @var{MEGACO-Notify-Request}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item observed-Events-Descriptor
One instance of OM class @b{Observed-Events-Descriptor}.
@item error-Descriptor
An optional instance of OM class @b{Error-Descriptor}.
@end vtable

@node MEGACO-Notify-Reply
@subsection MEGACO-Notify-Reply
@vindex MEGACO-Notify-Reply

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Service-Result}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{13}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab013,13,OM Attributes of OM class @var{MEGACO-Notify-Reply}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node MEGACO-Command-Reply
@subsection MEGACO-Command-Reply
@vindex MEGACO-Command-Reply

@node MEGACO-Service-Change-Request
@subsection MEGACO-Service-Change-Request
@vindex MEGACO-Service-Change-Request

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Service-Request}; plus the additional OM
attributes listed in @tabref{16}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab016,16,OM Attributes of OM class @var{MEGACO-Service-Change-Request}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node MEGACO-Service-Change-Reply
@subsection MEGACO-Service-Change-Reply
@vindex MEGACO-Service-Change-Reply

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Service-Result}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{15}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab015,15,OM Attributes of OM class @var{MEGACO-Service-Change-Reply}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node MEGACO-Subtract-Request
@subsection MEGACO-Subtract-Request
@vindex MEGACO-Subtract-Request

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Command-Request}; plus the additional OM
attributes listed in @tabref{6}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab006,6,OM Attributes of OM class @var{MEGACO-Subtract-Request}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node MEGACO-Subtract-Reply
@subsection MEGACO-Subtract-Reply
@vindex MEGACO-Subtract-Reply

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{MEGACO-Service-Result}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{5}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab005,5,OM Attributes of OM class @var{MEGACO-Subtract-Reply}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node MEGACO-Transaction-Pending
@subsection MEGACO-Transaction-Pending
@vindex MEGACO-Transaction-Pending

@node MEGACO-Transaction-Request
@subsection MEGACO-Transaction-Request
@vindex MEGACO-Transaction-Request

@node MEGACO-Transaction-Response
@subsection MEGACO-Transaction-Response
@vindex MEGACO-Transaction-Response

@node MEGACO Extension Packages
@section MEGACO Extension Packages

@node H.248 Package
@section H.248 Package

@menu
* H248-Action-Request::
* H248-Action-Reply::
* H248-Add-Request::
* H248-Add-Reply::
* H248-Audit-Request::
* H248-Audit-Reply::
* H248-Audit-Capability-Request::
* H248-Audit-Capability-Reply::
* H248-Audit-Value-Request::
* H248-Audit-Value-Reply::
* H248-Command-Request::
* H248-Command-Reply::
* H248-Message::
* H248-Modify-Request::
* H248-Modify-Reply::
* H248-Move-Request::
* H248-Move-Reply::
* H248-Notify-Request::
* H248-Notify-Reply::
* H248-Service-Change-Request::
* H248-Service-Change-Reply::
* H248-Service-Request::
* H248-Service-Result::
* H248-Service-Error::
* H248-Service-Reject::
* H248-Subtract-Request::
* H248-Subtract-Reply::
* H248-Transaction-Pending::
* H248-Transaction-Request::
* H248-Transaction-Response::
@end menu

The H.248 package provides specialization of the argument and result objects of the Common GCP
package to provide for the services under the H.248 GCP as described in ITU-T Recommendation
H.248.1.  This package is organized as a separate OM package that can be negotiated using the
@i{Negotiate()} function.@footnote{@xref{Negotiate}.}

The Object-Identifier associated with the H.248 package is:
@smallformat
@verbatim
{ iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enterprises(1) openss7(29591)
  xom-packages(1) xgcp(2) h248(4) }
@end verbatim
@end smallformat
This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant @b{H248-Package} (@samp{GCP_H248_PKG}).  This
constant can be used to negotiate support for the package using the @i{Negotiate()} function.

The H.248 GCP package introduces some additional OM syntaxes that are derivations of the
@i{String(Octet)} syntax.  These additional OM syntaxes are used to represent digit strings and
telephony  numbers. @xref{String(Address)}.

The following outlines the OM Class Hierarchy for the H.248 package:

@itemize ---
@item @i{Object} (defined in the XOM Specification: see reference @b{XOM})
@end itemize

@node H248-Amm-Request
@subsection H248-Amm-Request
@vindex H248-Amm-Request

This OM class contains the OM attributes of its super-classes, @i{H248-Command-Request}, plus the
additional OM attributes listed in @tabref{68}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab068,68,OM Attributes of OM class @i{H248-Amm-Request}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item descriptors
An object of OM class @b{Amm-Descriptors}.
@end vtable

@node Amm-Descriptors
@subsection Amm-Descriptors
@vindex Amm-Descriptors

An instance of the abstract @i{Amm-Descriptors} OM class represents the descriptors that can be
included with an Add, Move or Modify command.  This OM class contains the attributes of its
super-classes, @i{Object}, plus the additional attributes listed in @tabref{69}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab069,69,OM Attributes of OM class @i{Amm-Descriptors}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item media-Descriptor
An optional instance of OM class @b{Media-Descriptor}.
@item modem-Descriptor
An optional instance of OM class @b{Modem-Descriptor}.
@item mux-Descriptor
An optional instance of OM class @b{Mux-Descriptor}.
@item events-Descriptor
An optional instance of OM class @b{Events-Descriptor}.
@item signals-Descriptor
An optional instance of OM class @b{Signals-Descriptor}.
@item digit-Map-Descriptor
An optional instance of OM class @b{Digits-Descriptor}.
@item audit-Descriptor
An optional instance of OM class @b{Audit-Descriptor}.
@item statistics-Descriptor
An optional instance of OM class @b{Statistics-Descriptor}.
@end vtable

@node H248-Amms-Reply
@subsection H248-Amms-Reply
@vindex H248-Amms-Reply

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node H248-Action-Request
@subsection H248-Action-Request
@vindex H248-Action-Request

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node H248-Action-Reply
@subsection H248-Action-Reply
@vindex H248-Action-Reply

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node H248-Add-Request
@subsection H248-Add-Request
@vindex H248-Add-Request

An instance of the OM clss @b{H248-Add-Request} represents the Add Request command of ITU-T
Recommendation H.248.1 (09/2005).  This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes:
@i{H248-Amm-Request}.  It does not define any OM attributes of its own. @xref{H248-Amm-Request}.

@c This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Service-Request}; plus the additional
@c OM attributes listed in @tabref{52}.
@c 
@c @tabfig{xgcp_tab052,52,OM Attributes of OM class @var{H248-Add-Request}}
@c 
@c This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@c @vtable @var
@c @item media-Descriptor
@c @item modem-Descriptor
@c @item mux-Descriptor
@c @item events-Descriptor
@c @item event-Buffer-Descriptor
@c @item signals-Descriptor
@c @item digit-Map-Descriptor
@c @item audit-Descriptor
@c @item statistics-Descriptor
@c @end vtable

@node H248-Add-Reply
@subsection H248-Add-Reply
@vindex H248-Add-Reply

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Service-Result}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{51}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab051,51,OM Attributes of OM class @var{H248-Add-Reply}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item media-Descriptor
@item modem-Descriptor
@item mux-Descriptor
@item events-Descriptor
@item signals-Descriptor
@item digit-Map-Descriptor
@item observed-Events-Descriptor
@item event-Buffer-Descriptor
@item statistics-Descriptor
@item packages-Descriptor
@end vtable

@node H248-Audit-Request
@subsection H248-Audit-Request
@vindex H248-Audit-Request

An instance of a subclass of this abstract OM class represents either an Audit Capability Request
command or an Audit Value Request command.  This is an abstract class that defines several derived
subclasses: @b{H248-Audit-Capability-Request} and @b{H248-Audit-Value-Request}.  This OM class
contains the OM attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Command-Request}; plus the additional OM
attributes listed in @tabref{71}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab071,71,OM Attributes of OM class @i{H248-Audit-Request}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item audit-Descriptor
A single instance of OM class @b{Audit-Descriptor}.
@end vtable

@node H248-Audit-Reply
@subsection H248-Audit-Reply
@vindex H248-Audit-Reply

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node H248-Audit-Capability-Request
@subsection H248-Audit-Capability-Request
@vindex H248-Audit-Capability-Request

An instance of OM class @b{H248-Audit-Capability-Request} represents an Audit Capability command
request of ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 (09/2005).
This OM class contains the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Audit-Request}; it does not
define any OM attributes of its own.

@c This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Service-Request}; plus the additional
@c OM attributes listed in @tabref{62}.
@c 
@c @tabfig{xgcp_tab062,62,OM Attributes of OM class @var{H248-Audit-Capabilities-Command}}
@c 
@c This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@c @vtable @var
@c @item audit-Descriptor
@c @end vtable

@node H248-Audit-Capability-Reply
@subsection H248-Audit-Capability-Reply
@vindex H248-Audit-Capability-Reply

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Service-Result}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{61}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab061,61,OM Attributes of OM class @var{H248-Audit-Capabilities-Response}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item media-Descriptor
@item modem-Descriptor
@item mux-Descriptor
@item events-Descriptor
@item signals-Descriptor
@item observed-Events-Descriptor
@item event-Buffer-Descriptor
@item statistics-Descriptor
@end vtable

@node H248-Audit-Value-Request
@subsection H248-Audit-Value-Request
@vindex H248-Audit-Value-Request

An instance of OM class @b{H248-Audit-Value-Request} represents an Audit Value command request of
ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 (09/2005).
This OM class contains the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Audit-Request}; it does not
define any OM attributes of its own.

@c This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Service-Request}; plus the additional
@c OM attributes listed in @tabref{60}.
@c 
@c @tabfig{xgcp_tab060,60,OM Attributes of OM class @var{H248-Audit-Value-Request}}
@c 
@c This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@c @vtable @var
@c @item audit-Descriptor
@c @end vtable

@node H248-Audit-Value-Reply
@subsection H248-Audit-Value-Reply
@vindex H248-Audit-Value-Reply

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Service-Result}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{59}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab059,59,OM Attributes of OM class @var{H248-Audit-Value-Reply}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item media-Descriptor
@item modem-Descriptor
@item mux-Descriptor
@item events-Descriptor
@item signals-Descriptor
@item digit-Map-Descriptor
@item observed-Events-Descriptor
@item event-Buffer-Descriptor
@item statistics-Descriptor
@item packages-Descriptor
@end vtable

@node H248-Command-Request
@subsection H248-Command-Request
@vindex H248-Command-Request

An instance of a concrete subclass of this abstract OM class represents an ITU-T Recommendation
H.248.1 (09/2005) CommandRequest.  This abstract OM class defines several abstract and concrete
subclasses: @i{H248-Amm-Request}, @b{H248-Subtract-Request}, @i{H248-Audit-Request},
@b{H248-Notify-Request} and @b{H248-Service-Change-Request}.

This abstract OM class has the attributes of its super-classes, @i{Command-Request}, plus the
additional OM attributes listed in @tabref{70}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab070,70,OM Attributes of OM class @i{H248-Command-Request}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item termination-Id
An instance of OM class @b{Termination-ID} that specifies the termination to which the command
request applies.
@end vtable

@node H248-Command-Reply
@subsection H248-Command-Reply
@vindex H248-Command-Reply

An instance of a concrete subclass of this abstract OM class represents an ITU-T Recommendation
H.248.1 (09/2005) CommandReply.  This abstract OM class defines several abstract and concrete
subclasses: @i{H248-Amms-Reply}, @i{H248-Audit-Reply}, @b{H248-Notify-Reply} and
@b{H248-Service-Change-Reply}.

This abstract OM class has the attributes of its super-classes, @i{Command-Reply}, plus the
additional OM attributes listed in @tabref{73}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab073,73,OM Attributes of OM class @i{H248-Command-Reply}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item termination-Id
An instance of OM class @b{Termination-ID} that specifies the termination to which the command
reply applies.
@end vtable

@node H248-Service-Change-Request
@subsection H248-Service-Change-Request
@vindex H248-Service-Change-Request

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Service-Request}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{66}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab066,66,OM Attributes of OM class @var{H248-Service-Change-Request}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item service-Change-Descriptor
@end vtable

@node H248-Message
@subsection H248-Message
@vindex H248-Message

@node H248-Modify-Request
@subsection H248-Modify-Request
@vindex H248-Modify-Request

An instance of OM class @b{H248-Modify-Request} represents the Modify Request command of ITU-T
Recommendation H.248.1 (09/2005). This OM class contains the attributes of its super-classes:
@i{H248-Amm-Request}.  It does not define any attributes of its own. @xref{H248-Amm-Request}.

@c This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Service-Request}; plus the additional
@c OM attributes listed in @tabref{54}.
@c 
@c @tabfig{xgcp_tab054,54,OM Attributes of OM class @var{H248-Modify-Request}}
@c 
@c This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@c @vtable @var
@c @item media-Descriptor
@c @item modem-Descriptor
@c @item mux-Descriptor
@c @item events-Descriptor
@c @item event-Buffer-Descriptor
@c @item signals-Descriptor
@c @item digit-Map-Descriptor
@c @item audit-Descriptor
@c @item statistics-Descriptor
@c @end vtable

@node H248-Modify-Reply
@subsection H248-Modify-Reply
@vindex H248-Modify-Reply

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Service-Result}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{53}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab053,53,OM Attributes of OM class @var{H248-Modify-Reply}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item media-Descriptor
@item modem-Descriptor
@item mux-Descriptor
@item events-Descriptor
@item signals-Descriptor
@item digit-Map-Descriptor
@item observed-Events-Descriptor
@item event-Buffer-Descriptor
@item statistics-Descriptor
@item packages-Descriptor
@end vtable

@node H248-Move-Request
@subsection H248-Move-Request
@vindex H248-Move-Request

An instance of OM class @b{H248-Move-Request} represents the Move Request command of ITU-T
Recommendation H.248.1 (09/2005). This OM class contains the attributes of its super-classes:
@i{H248-Amm-Request}.  It does not define any attributes of its own. @xref{H248-Amm-Request}.

@c This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Service-Request}; plus the additional
@c OM attributes listed in @tabref{58}.
@c 
@c @tabfig{xgcp_tab058,58,OM Attributes of OM class @var{H248-Move-Request}}
@c 
@c This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@c @vtable @var
@c @item media-Descriptor
@c @item modem-Descriptor
@c @item mux-Descriptor
@c @item events-Descriptor
@c @item event-Buffer-Descriptor
@c @item signals-Descriptor
@c @item digit-Map-Descriptor
@c @item audit-Descriptor
@c @item statistics-Descriptor
@c @end vtable

@node H248-Move-Reply
@subsection H248-Move-Reply
@vindex H248-Move-Reply

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Service-Result}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{57}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab057,57,OM Attributes of OM class @var{H248-Move-Reply}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item media-Descriptor
@item modem-Descriptor
@item mux-Descriptor
@item events-Descriptor
@item signals-Descriptor
@item digit-Map-Descriptor
@item observed-Events-Descriptor
@item event-Buffer-Descriptor
@item statistics-Descriptor
@item packages-Descriptor
@end vtable

@node H248-Notify-Request
@subsection H248-Notify-Request
@vindex H248-Notify-Request

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Service-Request}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{64}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab064,64,OM Attributes of OM class @var{H248-Notify-Request}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item observed-Events-Descriptor
@item error-Descriptor
@end vtable

@node H248-Notify-Reply
@subsection H248-Notify-Reply
@vindex H248-Notify-Reply

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Service-Result}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{63}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab063,63,OM Attributes of OM class @var{H248-Notify-Reply}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node H248-Service-Change-Reply
@subsection H248-Service-Change-Reply
@vindex H248-Service-Change-Reply

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Service-Result}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{65}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab065,65,OM Attributes of OM class @var{H248-Service-Change-Reply}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item service-Change-Descriptor
@end vtable

@node H248-Service-Request
@subsection H248-Service-Request
@vindex H248-Service-Request

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item termination-Id
@end vtable

@node H248-Service-Result
@subsection H248-Service-Result
@vindex H248-Service-Result

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item termination-Id
@end vtable

@node H248-Service-Error
@subsection H248-Service-Error
@vindex H248-Service-Error

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node H248-Service-Reject
@subsection H248-Service-Reject
@vindex H248-Service-Reject

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@end vtable

@node H248-Subtract-Request
@subsection H248-Subtract-Request
@vindex H248-Subtract-Request

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Command-Request}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{56}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab056,56,OM Attributes of OM class @var{H248-Subtract-Request}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item audit-Descriptor
@end vtable

@node H248-Subtract-Reply
@subsection H248-Subtract-Reply
@vindex H248-Subtract-Reply

This OM class has the attributes of its super-classes: @i{H248-Service-Result}; plus the additional
OM attributes listed in @tabref{55}.

@tabfig{xgcp_tab055,55,OM Attributes of OM class @var{H248-Subtract-Reply}}

This OM class contains the following class-specific OM attributes:
@vtable @var
@item media-Descriptor
@item modem-Descriptor
@item mux-Descriptor
@item events-Descriptor
@item signals-Descriptor
@item digit-Map-Descriptor
@item observed-Events-Descriptor
@item event-Buffer-Descriptor
@item statistics-Descriptor
@item packages-Descriptor
@end vtable

@node H248-Transaction-Pending
@subsection H248-Transaction-Pending
@vindex H248-Transaction-Pending

@node H248-Transaction-Request
@subsection H248-Transaction-Request
@vindex H248-Transaction-Request

@node H248-Transaction-Response
@subsection H248-Transaction-Response
@vindex H248-Transaction-Response

@node H.248 Extension Packages
@section H.248 Extension Packages

Commands:

@itemize
@item @i{Add()}: The add command adds a termination to a context.  The @i{Add()} command on the
first termination in a context is used to create a context.
@item @i{Modify()}: The modify command modifies the properties, events and signals of a termination.
@item @i{Subtract()}: The subtract command disconnects a termination from its context and returns
statistics on the termination's participation in the context.  The @i{Subtract()} command on the
last termination in a context deletes the context.
@item @i{Move()}: The move command atomically moves a termination to another context.
@item @i{AuditValue()}: The audit value command returns the current state of properties, events,
signals and statistics of terminations.
@item @i{AuditCapabilities()}: The audit capabilities command all the possible values for
termination properties, events and signals allowed by the Media Gateway.
@item @i{Notify()}: The notify command allows the Media Gateway to inform the Media Gateway
Controller of the occurrence of events in the Media Gateway.
@item @i{ServiceChange()}: The service change command allows the Media Gateway to notify the Media
Gateway Controller that a termination or group of terminations is about to be taken out of service
or has just been returned to service.  The service change command is also used by the MG to announce
its availability to an MGC (registration), and to notify the MGC of impending or completed restart
of the MG.  The MGC may announce a handover to the MG by sending it a service change command.  The
MGC may also use the service change command to instruct the MG to take a termination or group of
terminations in or out of service.
@end itemize

@node Errors
@chapter Errors

@node C Headers
@appendix C Headers

@node Examples
@appendix Examples

@node Glossary
@unnumbered Glossary

@node Licenses
@unnumbered Licenses

All code presented in this manual is licensed under the @ref{GNU Affero General Public License}.
The text of this manual is licensed under the @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}, with no
invariant sections, no front-cover texts and no back-cover texts.  Please note, however, that it is
just plain wrong to modify statements of, or attribute statements to, the Author or @cite{OpenSS7
Corporation}.

@menu
* GNU Affero General Public License::
* GNU Free Documentation License::
@end menu

@include texi/agpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/fdl13.texi

@ifnotplaintext
@c skip indexes for plain text (regex search works better)
@c @iftex
@c @node Indices
@c @unnumbered Indices
@c @end iftex

@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for html and info
@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp
@c @end ifnottex

@c @iftex
@c @menu
@c * Concept Index::
@c * Protocol State Index::
@c * Primitive Index::
@c * Primitive Structure and Type Index::
@c * Primitive Structure Field Index::
@c * Primitive Values Index::
@c * Primitive Error Values Index::
@c * Input-Output Control Index::
@c * MIB Object Index::
@c * Manual Page Index::
@c @end menu
@c 
@c @node Concept Index
@c @section Concept Index
@c @printindex cp
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Protocol State Index
@c @section Protocol State Index
@c @printindex st
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Index
@c @section Primitive Index
@c @printindex pr
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Structure and Type Index
@c @section Primitive Structure and Type Index
@c @printindex tp
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Structure Field Index
@c @section Primitive Structure Field Index
@c @printindex vr
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Values Index
@c @section Primitive Values Index
@c @printindex pv
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Error Values Index
@c @section Primitive Error Values Index
@c @printindex pe
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Input-Output Control Index
@c @section Input-Output Control Index
@c @printindex ct
@c 
@c @page
@c @node MIB Object Index
@c @section MIB Object Index
@c @printindex mo
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Manual Page Index
@c @section Manual Page Index
@c @printindex mp
@c @end iftex
@end ifnotplaintext

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye
