@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: configure.texi,v 1.1.4.2 2005/03/15 00:51:30 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/15 00:51:30 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@c This file is include from install.texi and contains the descriptions for
@c package-specific enable/disable and with/without options

In addition, the following @command{configure} options, specific to the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package are available:

@table @command

@item --enable-user-mode

Enable user mode build.  The default is no.  Don't use this option, it hasn't
been tested.

@item --enable-broken-cpu-flags

Specify @code{int} instead of @code{long} interrupt flags.  Linux uses
@code{long} interrupt flags exclusively.  The default is to use @code{long}
interrupt flags.

@item --enable-k-cache

Invoke Linux kernel caching on primary structures.  This incresase speed and
efficiency.  The default is to @strong{not} perform kernel caching on primary
structures.

@item --enable-k-timers

Invoke Linux kernel cahcing on timer structures.  This increases speed and
efficiency but is unsafe on SMP architectures and for buggy or high-speed
drivers.  The default is to @strong{not} perform kernel caching on timer
structures.

@item --enable-atomic-stats

Enable atomic statistics elements for STREAMS statistics.
The changes STREAMS statistics elements from the standard @code{int} to
@code{atomic_t} to permit atomic increment of statistics structures.  This is
not recommended and the default is to @strong{not} use @code{atomic_t} for
statistics structures.

@ignore
@item --with-sctp

Include xopen sctp driver in build.  [default=yes]  Unused.

@item --with-sctp2

Include xopen sctp version 2 driver in build.  [default=no]  Unused.

@item --with-xns

Include xopen xns headers in install.  [default=yes]

@item --with-tli

Include xopen tli modules in build.  [default=yes] Build and package the TLI
modules (@file{streams-timod.o} and @file{streams-tirdwr.o}).  These are needed
by the XTI/XNS Unix98 libraries.  The default is to build and package TLI
modules.
@pgindex streams-timod.o
@pgindex streams-tirdwr.o

@item --with-inet

Include xopen inet driver in build.  [default=yes] Build and package the INET
driver (@file{streams-inet.o}).  This driver is needed for XTI/XNS Unix98
compatibility.  The default is to build and package the INET driver.
@pgindex streams-inet.o

@item --with-xnet

Include xopen xnet library in build.  [default=yes]
Build and package the XTI/XNS library (@file{libxnet}).  This library is needed for
XTI/XNS Unix98 compatiblity.  The default is to build and package the XNET
library.
@pgindex libxnet.a
@pgindex libxnet.so

@item --with-sock

Include xopen sock library in build.  [default=yes]
@end ignore

@item --with-solaris-consts

Use Unixware/Solaris compatible constants if yes, or use LiS backward compatible
constants if no.  [default=yes]

@item --with-solaris-cmn_err

Use a Solaris-style cmn_err that puts a newline at the end of the line rather
than the beginning [default=yes]

@end table

