@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nosi nocin
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: descrip.texi,v 0.9.2.2 2006/08/27 12:26:27 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/08/27 12:26:27 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is an @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7}
modified version of the @cite{LiS-2.18} package formerly from
@cite{@uref{ftp://ftp.gcom.com/pub/linux/src/LiS-2.18.0.tgz,, GCOM}}, and formerly maintained by
@email{dave@@gcom.com, David Grothe}.

@emph{Note}: The original @value{PACKAGE} package from @cite{GCOM} is no longer actively maintained
by either @cite{GCOM} or the @cite{OpenSS7 Project}: use the @cite{OpenSS7 Linux Fast-STREAMS}
package <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/STREAMS.html}> instead.

The following are claims made by its authors and original maintainer:

@quotation
The @cite{OpenSS7 Modified @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is as @dfn{STREAMS} framework that is
compatible with @dfn{SVR 4 STREAMS}.  It has lots of debugging features not found in other
@dfn{STREAMS} packages.  Good to do networking and other things.  It allows for installation of
binary drivers.
@end quotation

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} aims to provide @cite{SVR 4} compatible @dfn{STREAMS} implementation
for @cite{Linux} and claims to have special debugging facilities; however, the package suffers from
the major failings that it is:

@itemize @minus
@item no longer maintained;
@item full of bugs;
@item incompatible with POSIX;
@item implements SVR 4 STREAMS rather than the more popular SVR 4.2 MP/ES STREAMS;
@item portions dubiously licensed under the LGPL;
@item unsuitable for mainline adoption;
@item adapts poorly to production kernels;
@item many SMP races and lockups;
@item no @manpage{strlog(9)} @dfn{STREAMS} logger;
@end itemize
