@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.33 2008-04-25 11:50:42 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-25 11:50:42 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @*
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::	Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.6::		Release 6
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.5::		Release 5
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.4::		Release 4
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.4.rc3::	Release 4 Candidate 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.4.rc2::	Release 4 Candidate 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.4rc1::	Release 4 Candidate 1
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.3::		Release 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.2::		Release 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.1::		Release 1
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.19::		Release 19
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-22::	Release 22
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-21::	Release 21
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-20::	Release 20
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-19::	Release 19
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-18::	Release 18
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-17::	Release 17
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-16::	Release 16
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-15::	Release 15
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-14::	Release 14
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-13::	Release 13
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-12::	Release 12
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-11::	Release 11
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-10::	Release 10
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-9::	Release 9
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-8::	Release 8
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-7::	Release 7
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-6::	Release 6
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-5::	Release 5
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-4::	Release 4
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-3::	Release 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-2::	Release 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-1::	Release 1
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.16-1::	Release 1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

This is an internal release of LiS.  It is only available for download by
subscribers and sponsors of the OpenSS7 Project.  There are too many packages
that cannot build against LiS due to its implementation deficiencies.

Do not use this release (even if you are a subscriber or sponsor).  Port to
Linux Fast-STREAMS.  Do not report bugs on this release.  The OpenSS7 Project
no longer actively maintains LiS.

Major features since the last internal release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Kernel module license made explicit "GPL v2".  And then changed back to "GPL".

@item
License upgrade to AGPL v3.

@item
Ability to strap out major documentation build and installation primarily for
embedded targets.

@item
Improvements to common build process for embedded and cross-compile targets.

@item
Support for flex 2.5.33  in maintainer mode.

@item

@end itemize

@emph{This is an unstable release: do not report bugs for this release.
Please see @file{README-alpha} in the release or @refman{Maturity}.}

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs
and builds RPMs and DEBs for a wide range of Linux 2.4 and 2.6 RPM- and
DPKG-based distributions, and can be used on production kernels without
patching or recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released under the @cite{GNU Affero General Public License
Version 3}.  The release is available as an @command{autoconf} tarball, SRPM,
DSC, and set of binary RPMs and DEBs.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html,downloads page} for the
@command{autoconf} tarballs, SRPMs and DSCs.  For tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and
binary RPMs and DEBs, see the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html,@value{PACKAGE} package
page}.

See
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog}
and
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS}
in the release for more information.  Also, see the @file{@value{PACKAGE}.pdf}
manual in the release (also in html
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html}).

@ignore
For the news release, see @uref{http://www.openss7.org/rel20070315_0.html}.
@end ignore

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.6
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.6
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.6

This is an internal release of LiS.  It is only available for download by
subscribers and sponsors of the OpenSS7 Project.  There are too many packages
that cannot build against LiS due to its implementation deficiencies.

Do not use this release (even if you are a subscriber or sponsor).  Port to
Linux Fast-STREAMS.  Do not report bugs on this release.  The OpenSS7 Project
no longer actively maintains LiS.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Support build on openSUSE 10.2.

@item
Support build on Fedora 7 with 2.6.21 kernel.

@item
Support build on CentOS 5.0 (RHEL5).

@item
Support build on Ubuntu 7.04.

@item
Updated to gettext 0.16.1.

@item
Changes to support build on 2.6.20-1.2307.fc5 and 2.6.20-1.2933.fc6 kernel.

@item
Supports build on Fedora Core 6.

@item
Support for recent distributions and tool chains.

@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.5
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.5
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.5

This is an internal release of LiS.  There are too many packages now that cannot
build against LiS because it is lacking fundamental capabilities in the
Stream head.

Do not use this release.  Port to Linux Fast-STREAMS.  Do not report bugs on
this release.  (Yup, there are lots of 'em, but that's LiS.)

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Added versions to all exported symbols.  Made LiS functions GPL export.

@item
Improvements to the common build environment with better support for
standalone package builds on 2.4 kernels.

@item
Support for autoconf 2.61, automake 2.10 and gettext 0.16.

@item
Support for Ubuntu 6.10 distribution and bug fixes for i386 kenels.

@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.4
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.4
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.4

This is the final release of LiS.  There are too many packages now that cannot
build against LiS because it is lacking fundamental capabilities in the
Stream head.

This release builds both 32-bit compatibility and 64-bit native libraries and
functions on 64-bit architectures.  One of the major reasons for doing this
for LiS was to demonstrate its sad lack of ability to sustain any form of
32-bit compatibility on most 64-bit architectures.  Test suites now run first
64-bit native and then 32-bit compatibility tests to demonstrate LiS' dismal
failure in this regard.

Do not use this release.  Port to Linux Fast-STREAMS.  Do not report bugs on
this release.  (Yup, there are lots of 'em, but that's LiS.)

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Support for most recent 2.6.18 kernels (including Fedora Core 5 with inode
diet patchset).

@item
Added @command{send-pr} scripts for automatic problem report generation.
(Please do not report bugs on LiS.)

@item
Added @command{--disable-devel} @command{configure} option to suppress
building and installing development environment.  This feature is for embedded
or pure runtime targets that do not need the development environment (static
libraries, manual pages, documentation).

@item
Corrected start of assignment of major devices numbers (back to 230).

@item
Improved compiler flag generation and optimizations for recent @command{gcc}
compilers and some idiosyncratic behaviour for some distributions (primarily
SUSE).

@item
Optimized compilation is now available also for user level programs in
addition to kernel programs.  Added new @option{--with-optimize} option to
@command{configure} to accomplish this.

@item
Better detection of SUSE distributions, release numbers and SLES
distributions: support for additional @cite{SuSE} distributions on @code{ix86}
as well as @code{x86_64}.  Added distribution support includes @cite{SLES 9},
@cite{SLES 9 SP2}, @cite{SLES 9 SP3}, @cite{SLES 10}, @cite{SuSE 10.1}.

@item
Many documentation updates for all @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7}
packages.  Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and
timely text documentation present in the release directory.

@item
Bug fixes to STREAMS library for proper asynchronous thread cancellation
handling.  Versions for all library symbols.

@item
Now builds 32-bit compatibility libraries and tests them against 64-bit kernel
modules and drivers.  The @samp{make installcheck} target will now
automatically test both 64-bit native and 32-bit compatibility versions, one
after the other, on 64-bit platforms.

@item
The package will now build doxygen(1) html documentation with the 'doxy' make
target.  See 'make help' or README-make in the distribution for more
information.
@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.4.rc3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.4.rc3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.4.rc3

Third release candidate.

@value{PACKAGE} is really not supported any longer.  Use Linux Fast-STREAMS instead.
The purpose of this release is to demonstrate the inability of the @value{PACKAGE}
package to properly support 32-bit compatibility on 64-bit architectures.

@itemize -
@item
Minor bug fixes to STREAMS library.  isastream(3) and fattach(3) must not
contain an asynchronous thread cancellation point, but they could.  Added
asynchronous thread cancellation protection to these functions to remove any
thread cancellation points.

@item
The package will now build doxygen(1) html documentation with the 'doxy' make
target.  See 'make help' or README-make in the distribution for more
information.

@item
Now builds 32-bit compatibility libraries and tests them against 64-bit kernel
modules and drivers.  The @samp{make installcheck} target will now
automatically test both 64-bit native and 32-bit compatibility versions, one
after the other, on 64-bit platforms.

@item
Added versions for all library symbols.

@item
Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and timely text
documentation present in the release directory.

@item
Many documentation updates for all @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7}
packages.

@item
This release candidate includes the changes made to the strsctp drivers at the
@cite{2006 SCTP Interop} at the @cite{University of British Columbia}.  This
version was interoperability tested with all implementations present.

@item
This release candidate provides support for additional @cite{SuSE}
distributions on @code{ix86} as well as @code{x86_64}.  Added distribution
support includes @cite{SLES 9}, @cite{SLES 9 SP2}, @cite{SLES 9 SP3},
@cite{SLES 10}, @cite{SuSE 10.1}.

@item
Better detection of SUSE distributions, release numbers and SLES
distributions.

@item
Optimized compilation is now available also for user level programs in
addition to kernel programs.  Added new @option{--with-optimize} option to
@command{configure} to accomplish this.

@item
Improved compiler flag generation and optimizations for recent @command{gcc}
compilers and some idiosyncratic behaviour for some distributions (primarily
SUSE):

@multitable @columnfractions .01 .99
@item @minus{} @tab Remove @option{-fno-reorder-blocks} and
@option{-fno-reorder-functions} options added by some recent 2.6
@file{Makefile}s for @samp{x86_64} architecture: it impedes performance
optimizations.
@item @minus{} @tab Remove @option{-ffunction-sections} option added by some
recent 2.6 @file{Makefile}s for @samp{x86_64} architecture: this is an
insane option and should never have been used.
@item @minus{} @tab Add @option{-ffreestanding} that some older 2.6
@file{Makefile}s (such as that with @cite{SLES 9 2.6.5} kernel) neglect to add
to the @command{gcc} command line.
@item @minus{} @tab @cite{SLES 10} expands the directory before
@file{autoconf.h} on the @command{gcc} command line for some reason.
@command{configure} script watches out for this now.
@end multitable

@item
Updated @command{init} scripts for proper addition and removal of modules.

@item
Start assigning majors at major device number 231 instead of major device
number 230.  Assign major device number 230 explicitly to the clone device.

@item
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} now supports expanded addressable minor device
numbers, permitting 2^16 addressable minor devices per major device number on
2.6 kernels: @cite{@value{PACKAGE}} cannot support this change.
@end itemize

This was an internal alpha test release candidate and was not released publicly.
This release was only available to subscribers to and sponsors of the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.4.rc2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.4.rc2
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.4.rc2

Second release candidate.

@itemize -
@item
Added @samp{--enable-devel} @command{configure} option for embedded targets.

@item
Added @command{send-pr} script for automatic problem report generation.
@end itemize

This was an internal alpha test release candidate and was not released publicly.
This release was only available to subscribers to and sponsors of the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.4rc1
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.4rc1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.4rc1

First release candidate.

@itemize -
@end itemize

This was an internal alpha test release candidate and was not released publicly.
This release was only available to subscribers to and sponsors of the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.3

Corrections for and testing of 64-bit clean compile and test runs on x86_64
architecture.  Some bug corrections resulting from gcc 4.0.2 compiler
warnings.

Corrected build flags for Gentoo and 2.6.15 kernels as reported on mailing
list.  Builds on FC4 2.6.15 kernel and with gcc 4.0.2.

Added in many of Paul's 64-bit corrections.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} 2.18.3} is still largely unusable on 64-bit or
SMP kernels.  @b{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package is deprecated.  Do not use it.
The package contains many unresovled bugs. Use @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}
instead.}

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.2
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.2

Cross-build support for newer @cite{Nex@-us@-Ware} releases.  Build support
for (recent FC4) 2.6.14 kernel.  Corrected installation support (init scripts)
for SuSE 9.2.

Binary compatibility backward compatible to GCOM 2.18.0 included.  This
includes exported symbols changed to not generate version symbols on 2.4
kernels.  Also, exported symbols are always compiled
@code{attribute((regparm(0)))} on regparm capable architectures, regardless of
the kernel version or compile options.@footnote{Regparm capable architectures
are really just @code{__i386__} and similar such as @code{__x86_64__} and
@code{k8}.} For actual binary compatibility packaging, see the @file{strcompat}
package.

A major change for 2.18.2 is the port-back of POSIX/SUSv3 XSR/XSI conformance
test suites and performance programs from Linux Fast-STREAMS.  The purpose of
porting back theses tests suites and supporting modules and drivers is to
provide the ability to do comparison tests between LiS and Linux Fast-STREAMS.

Another change is a module unloading safe vstrlog hook register and unregister
functions register_strlog() and unregister_strlog().

Some bug corrections and fixes for glaring SMP errors reported by Kutluck.

This might be the last OpenSS7 release of @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.  You
should seriously consider using the Linux Fast-STREAMS package (streams-0.7a.4
or later) instead.  If you need compatibility to LiS (or other STREAMS
implementation), investigate the strcompat package, which provides some binary
compatibility to LiS under Linux Fast STREAMS.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.1
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.1

Initial autoconf/RPM packaging of the @command{@value{PACKAGE}} release.

This is a port forward of most of the build and patches from 2.16.19 forward
and applied over 2.18.0.  This is our first @value{PACKAGE}-2.18 release.  All
further development on 2.16.19 will now cease.  2.18.1 is maintained on both
2.4 and 2.6 kernels.  No active development will be performed on 2.18.1, only
maintenance.  For an active development release, see the Linux Fast-STREAMS
releases.

Major changes from @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.0 include all of the autoconf build
system, manual pages and texi/pdf manual for LiS that were applied on the
2.16.19 release.  This includes a number of 64 bit, HPPA, PARISC, printf,
atomic stats, HZ calculations for 64bit machines, DMA patch for mblk buffer
alignment, flush handling patch, panic patch, smp patch, parisc syscall patch,
appq patch, and multi-threaded test program patches, POSIX threads compliant
library functions.

Additional changes made to support later 2.6 kernels and distributions.
Switched putpmsg()/getpmsg() to use ioctl for system call emulation instead of
read()/write(), primarily because 2.6.11 kernels check for a valid count
before calling the driver's read()/write() file operations.  Updates to the
build system to support a wider range of kernels and distributions.  See the
installation and reference manual for a complete list of supported kernels and
distributions.

Please note that the entire package is released under GPL.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.19
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.19
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.19

Not publicly released.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-22
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-22
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-22

Replaced m4 and automake files with common equivalents.  This allows the same
set of m4 macros and automake fragments to be used with all of the OpenSS7
release packages.  Maintenance is easier as one correction will propagate
across all items.  Performed similar function with texinfo documentation
pieces.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-21
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-21
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-21

Removed all XTI/TLI and Linux networking code, headers and documentation from
LiS distribution and bumped epoch to 2.  Linux networking code has been
migrated to the @strong{strxns}, @strong{strxnet}, @strong{strinet} and
@strong{strsctp} packages.  The purpose for doing this was to allow the Linux
networking to build against Linux Fast-STREAMS as well as
@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} and is a preparation for phasing out LiS and
phasing in LfS.

Added missing @file{configure.nexusware} to distribution.  LiS cache options
now default to 'no' because of instabilities with timers.

Not publicly released.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-20
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-20
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-20

Minor corrections: made conflicting manpage @file{xti_sctp.3} dependent on
OpenSS7 SCTP kernel.

Not publicly released.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-19
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-19
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-19

Changes to compile, install and builds rpms for Fedora Core 1 (FC1), Whitebox
Enterprise Linux (WBEL) and RedHat Enterprise Linux 3 (EL3).  Included
explicit epoch in internal dependencies in spec file for RPM versions 4.2.1,
4.2.2 and higher.  Added hugemem kernel detection and moved getpmsg and
putpmsg manual pages.

Correction to symbolic linking and system map file location during non-rpm
autoconf installation.

Correction to zero @code{maxlen} behaviour in @code{t_rcvconnect()}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-18
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-18
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-18

Added check for @code{CONFIG_REGPARM}, addition of @code{-mregparm=3}
@code{CFLAGS}, addition of @code{regparm_} prefix for exported ksyms.

Minor corrections to separate build directory install of devices and caching
of detected ksyms.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-17
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-17
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-17

Added option @code{--disable-k-modversions} to suppress versions for LiS
exported symbols.

A couple of corrections to the build process reported by Gurol.  Changed order
of build in `make rebuild' target to build tools last so that the rpm debug
package is built correctly on RH9.

Change @code{MODULE_PARM} to static so that @code{make install-strip} does not
strip module parameter symbols.

Added @code{lis_check_mem_region()}, @code{lis_release_mem_region()} and
@code{lis_request_mem_region()} for memory mapped io instead of just io.

Added @code{printk} patches discussed on linux-stream mailing list.  Added
gcc @code{printf} checking and corrected errors in LiS debugging @code{printk}
statements.

Added HP patches.  There are a couple of questionable components in the HP
patches that I reversed.  They include;

@itemize -
@item
modification of @code{lis_msgsize} to @code{lis_msgdsize}.  This would change
the calculation of queue counts.  Queue counts aren't @code{M_DATA} counts,
they are "data" message counts.  LiS probably doesn't have this the right way,
but @code{lis_msgdsize} is not correct either.

@item
addition of @code{qi_mstat->ms_pcnt} increment on @code{lis_safe_putmsg}.
Same for @code{ms_scnt}, @code{ms_ocnt}, @code{ms_ccnt}.  STREAMS is not
supposed to increment counts.  It is the module writer's responsibility to
increment counts in their own queue procedures.
@end itemize


Added HP @code{ldl} patches.

Made modifications to @code{putq()}, @code{putbq()}, @code{insq()} and
@code{appq()} discussed on linux-streams mailing list.  These do not free
messages on failure.  Modified all occurrences internal to LiS to free the
message on error to ensure old behaviour.

Added HP dejagnu patches to @code{strtst} and added dejagnu testsuite
directory and file.  Added the @code{make check} target.  Use @code{DEJATOOLS}
on the make command line to invoke the tests, such as `@code{make
DEJATOOLS=strtst check}' to invoke the tests.  Because a patched
@code{netperf} is not commonly available and @code{netperf} will not be
distributed with the package, GNU @code{autotest} might be a better choice.
But that's for a later release.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-16
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-16
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-16

General updates to the build process, optimization options, build options.
Corrected library linkage.  Synced TLI modules and INET driver to Linux
Fast-STREAMS.  Removed deadlock from INET driver and loosened locking.
Unfortunately suitable libraries must be installed before distcheck will
clear.

Smoother and more reliable stripping of kernel symbols, starts with
/proc/ksyms if applicable then System.map then modversions.h to attempt to
choose symbols most closely synced with an installed or running kernel.

Improvements to autoconf installation of manpages (autocompressed now) and
info and pdf manuals are distributed.  install-strip target will actually
properly strip kernel modules.

Included an option to build and install only kernel or user parts of package
to speed rpm rebuild process for multiple kernel.  Added `rebuild' target to
rebuild the rpms from srpm for multiple kernel and architectures.  Added a
`sign' and `resign' target to sign srpm and rebuilt rpms respectively.

Greatly enhanced cross-build and cross-compile support, primarily in support
of the NexusWare embedded target.  Added NexusWare helper script and
documentation.  DESTDIR is now a blessed environment variable used by
configure to set the cross-build root as well as the install root.  Try adding
--with-k-optimize='size' to configure to optimize for size for embedded
targets.  Builds clean against NexusWare24 (810p0674.10-rc4).

Added start of an option to build as linkable object for embedded targets
rather than loadable kernel module.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-15
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-15
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-15

Fixed several symbol errors that made -13 and -14 unusable.  Corrected error
in calculation of kernel debug flags.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-14
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-14
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-14

A few more enhancements to the build process to work with autoconf 2.59.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-13
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-13
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-13

Enhanced build process for autoconf-2.59, automake-1.8.3, gettext-0.14.1, and
libtool-1.5.6.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-12
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-12
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-12

Added defaults for SK_WMEM_MAX and SK_RMEM_MAX for lastest 2.4.25 and 2.4.26
kernel builds.

Enhanced build process.
  
All kernel symbols exported by LiS have versions on kernels that have
versions on symbols.  This makes it safer to compile kernel modules against
kernel/LiS combinations.  This is in preparation for splitting off the strxnet
package, and the technique was imported from the Linux Fast-STREAMS build.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-11
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-11
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-11

Ripped three additional kernel symbols in support of INET driver that were
missing in -10 release.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-10
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-10
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-10

Added support for cooked manpages both for non-rpm systems and for rpm
systems.  It is still better to leave manpages uncooked for rpm releases
because they are much smaller that way.  Give the --with-cooked-manpages flag
to configure if you want cooked manpages.  You still need grefer on the build
system.

Updates to all manual pages in man7, and some others (xti) in man3.  Removed
unused .macros and .refs files.

Moved automake fragments into separate directory.  Cleaned up automake
fragments.

Rearranged header files in the xti subdirectory to install in LiS package
include directory instead.  Reworked xti, tihdr and tiuser file groups to
include properly from kernel or user space independent of order.  tiuser and
xti still cannot be included together.  Added older TLI interface <tiuser.h>
that is still consistent with newer XTI interface.  Changed references in man
pages to XTI/TLI instead of just XTI.

Added ticlts.h, ticots.h and ticotsord.h header files.  Updated dlpi.h and
npi.h header files.  Removed sys/LiS/tpicommon.h because it is largely
replaced by sys/tli.h and sys/tpi.h.  Removed the, now redundant, xti header
file subdirectory.

A series of bug fixes to xnet.c (libxnet) that resulted from discussions with
Gurol Akman on openss7-develop mailing list.  Mostly surrounding t_alloc and
t_getinfo behaviour and the behaviour when NULL pointers are passed to various
XTI/TLI library calls.  Updated xti documentation as well.

Many changes to the inet.c INET driver.  Wildcard IP addresses can now be
bound and wildcard addresses will be assigned with no address is passed to
most providers.  (/dev/rawip still requires an address or TNOADDR is
returned.)  Option management has been extensively rewritten to closer conform
to XNS documentation.  Test programs test-inet_raw, test-inet_udp,
test-inet_tcp have been upgraded and converted to multiple child processes.  A
number of fixes to SMP lock behaviour and M_FLUSH have been added as reported
by Dave Grothe.  Corrected all level and TBADOPT behaviour on negotiation.

Although this driver is now closer to expected behaviour, it has not been
tested for XNS 5.2 compliance, nor will it be until someone has the time to
extend the test programs to handle all test cases in a similar manner as was
done for the library.  Your mileage many vary.  Remember, there is no
warranty.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-9
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-9
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-9

Changes primarily in support of builds on HPPA (PARISC) architectures.  LiS
doesn't build too well on PARISC so some modifications where used from the
Linux Fast-STREAMS package to correct deficiencies.  Better building on recent
2.4 kernels (2.4.23, 2.4.24, 2.4.25) is also provided.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-8
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-8
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-8

Changes to permit better builds on recent RedHat kernels, and especially
kernel-2.4.20-30.9.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-7
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-7
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-7

Fixed a module loading bug in LiS.  Previously modules would not demand load.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-6
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-6
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-6

Fixed a possible null pointer dereference in libxnet.  Corrected t_bind to
return TNOADDR instead of TBADADDR on wildcard bind attempt.  Module loading
bug patched.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-5
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-5
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-5

Fixes a t_open and t_bind problem in libxnet.  Fixes alignment of data portion
of mblks.  Adds (untested) ticots_ord, ticots and ticlts devices over UNIX
domain sockets.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-4
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-4
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-4

Adds back in missing strms_up/down/status scripts to distribution and install.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-3

Not publicly released.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-2
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-2

Not publicly released.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-1
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18-1

This OpenSS7 release of @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18 updates the previous
@value{PACKAGE}-2.16.16 rpm release to the latest @value{PACKAGE}-2.16
release level.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.16-1
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.16-1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.16-1

This OpenSS7 release of @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.16 includes autoconf for
configuration, complete manual pages and documentation, and packaging in
source and binary RPMs for ease and repeatability of installation.  The
package also builds and installs properly versions LiS shared object
libraries.

Before the OpenSS7 release of LiS, it was necessary to have a significant
working knowledge of the Linux kernel, kernel source, headers and other
intricacies.  This made it difficult to distribute software based on LiS to
users not proficient in those areas.  The OpenSS7 release removes the
configuration and installation tasks from the user and permits distribution of
applications, modules and driver software based on LiS to users without
sufficient kernel expertise to install the package.

This OpenSS7 release fixes few of the outstanding bugs and deficiencies of the
LiS software.  This release is intended to package and distribute LiS in an
efficient manner and, for the most part, does not address LiS deficiencies or
errors.

This OpenSS7 release is compatible with Linux 2.4 kernels only and will refuse
to configure for older or newer kernels.

Following are the new features of the OpenSS7 release of LiS:

@itemize -
@item
adds configuration using the GNU tools, autoconf, automake and autotest.

These tools greatly enhance the ability to maintain a repeatable and testable
release cycle as well as being compatible with most major package managers
such as Redhat's RPM.

@item
adds long options to all LiS utilities.

This change was necessitated because we use GNITS (the strictest level) of
configuration with autoconf that requires for distribution checking that all
utility programs support the @samp{--help} and @samp{--version} long options
without side-effects.

@item
provides a source and binary release mechanism using both autoconf
distributions as well as RedHat source and binary RPMs.

Use of the RPM mechanism for release permits add-on packages to ensure that
they have sufficient level of support and versions for the LiS load during
their build and installation process.  It is now also possible to ensure that
add on binaries are compatible with a loaded LiS during installation.

@item
includes a complete set of kernel programmer manual pages for all LiS exported
kernel functions for use by STREAMS module and driver developers.

@item
includes a complete set of user manual pages for all libLiS functions and
separate administrative utilities.

@item
includes the OpenSS7 strinet driver providing XTI/TLI access to the Linux
native NET4 IP stack including TCP, UDP, IP and (and OpenSS7 SCTP if your
kernel is so equipped).

@item
includes functional @code{tirdwr} and @code{timod} modules for use with the
included XTI/TLI library.@footnote{The @code{tirdwr} module included with the
Gcom @value{PACKAGE}-2.16.18 (and even more current) releases is almost
completely disfunctional and has been replaced in entirety.}

@item
includes complete, thread-safe XNS 5.2 XTI/TLI library support with the
@file{libxnet} library, complete manual pages and documentation released under
the LGPL (@pxref{GNU Lesser General Public License}).
@end itemize

The next release may include some @dfn{strss7} software.

