@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: rpm.texi,v 1.1.4.6 2007/02/28 06:30:14 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/28 06:30:14 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

In addition, the following @command{rpm} options, specific to the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package are available:

@table @command
@item --with broken-cpu-flags
@opindex broken-cpu-flags
Specify @code{int} instead of @code{long} interrupt flags.  Linux uses @code{long} interrupt flags
exclusively.  The default is to use @code{long} interrupt flags.  This option defaults to
@samp{disabled}.

@item --without lis-development
@opindex lis-development
This option is new to @cite{LiS-2.18.2}.
Disable reporting of source code path traces in debug logs.  @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} passes file name
and line number arguments to many of the exported functions.  This is exhaustive of stack resources
and requires the passing of more than three arguments on the stack in many circumstances.  Note
that disabling code path traces breaks binary compatibility.  The default is perform source code
path traces, unless optimized for size or speed, in which case, the default is to not perform source
code path traces.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --with k-timers
@opindex k-timers
Invoke Linux kernel caching on timer structures.  This increases speed and efficiency but is unsafe
on SMP architectures and for buggy drivers.  The default is to perform kernel caching on timer
structures.  This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --with k-cache
@opindex k-cache
Invoke Linux kernel caching on primary structures.  This increases speed and efficiency.  The
default is to perform kernel caching on primary structures.  This option defaults to
@samp{disabled}.

@item --with atomic-stats
@opindex atomic-stats
Specify @code{atomic_t} element types for elements of the @code{module_stat} structure instead of
@code{int} element types.  The default is to use @code{int} elements types for the
@code{module_stat} structure.  This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --with lis-regparms=NUMBER
@itemx --without lis-regparms
@opindex lis-regparms
This option is new to @cite{LiS-2.18.2}.
Specifies the number of parameters to pass in registers to @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} exported functions.
Specifying other than @samp{0} here may break binary compatibility.  Specifying
@samp{--without lis-regparms} will default to the number used for kernel exported functions.
Specifying greater than @samp{3} will cause the build to fail.  The default is to pass no arguments
in registers.  This option defaults to @samp{0}.

@item --without solaris-consts
@opindex solaris-consts
Attempt to be compatible with Solaris constants.  The default is to attempt to be compatible with
Solaris constants.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --without solaris-cmn_err
@opindex solaris-cmn_err
Specifies whether Solaris-style @code{cmn_err} is used.  The Solaris style prints a newline at the
end of each statement.  The SVR 4.2 style prints a newline at the beginning of each statement unless
@code{CE_CONT} is specified.  Linux kernel logs use the former, so this defaults to Solaris-style.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@end table

