@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: todo.texi,v 0.9.2.2 2006/08/29 11:48:48 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/08/29 11:48:48 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7} release of @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
was in maintenance mode for over a year and the latest @samp{2.18} releases
are quite stable.  However, @value{PACKAGE} is fraught with bugs and suffers
from a aging design approach making it unsuitable for production use.  It
fails many of the conformance test cases in the test suite and even locks the
kernel on a number of cases on @samp{SMP} kernels regardless of their being
run on a @samp{UP} machine.

@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, The OpenSS7 Project} wrote a new @dfn{STREAMS}
package for Linux called @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}
is now far more stable than @value{PACKAGE}, and
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, The OpenSS7 Project} will no longer perform
develoment on the @value{PACKAGE} package, unless at the bequest of a project
sponsor.  As such, @value{PACKAGE} is deprecated.  Use the latest
@command{streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}} package from the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html, OpenSS7 download site} instead.

Things to do:

@itemize @minus
@item
Last remaining to do item is to release the @value{PACKAGE}-2.18.3 release
that might very well be the last release.

@emph{*done*}

@end itemize

