\input texinfo
@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=100
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) doc/suites/MG.texi
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2008-2015  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
@c under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
@c any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
@c Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
@c copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
@c Documentation License".
@c
@c Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without
@c modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby
@c granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
@c permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7
@c Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
@c distribution of this documentation or its contents without specific,
@c written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation
@c about the suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is
@c provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
@c 
@c Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
@c results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
@c notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
@c (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
@c 
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
@c DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
@c FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE
@c CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE
@c IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY
@c PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
@c CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
@c USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
@c OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
@c THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS
@c THEREOF.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c

@setfilename MG.info
@include ../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Media Gateway Protocol Suite
@set MANUAL_TYPE Users Manual
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}

@dircategory OpenSS7
@direntry
* MG: (MG).				Media Gateway Protocol Suite
@end direntry

@include ../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Media Gateway Protocol Suite
@set MANUAL_TYPE Users Manual

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file provides the @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of the
@cite{@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2015  @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2001  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}.

Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results, provided the printed
document carries copying permission notice identical to this one except for the removal of this
paragraph (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT
THE CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN
NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
@end ifinfo

@include ../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Media Gateway Protocol Suite
@set MANUAL_TYPE Users Manual

@set PART Media Gateway Protocol
@set LONG Media Gateway Protocol
@set SHORT MG
@set INTERFACE MG

@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 1
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_PDATE}
@subtitle Distributed with Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@sp 2
@subtitle Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2015 Monavacon Limited
@subtitle All Rights Reserved.
@sp 4
@quotation
@chapheading Abstract:
This document is a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} containing technical details concerning the implementation of
the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} for OpenSS7.  It contains recommendations on software architecture as well
as platform and system applicability of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  It provides abstraction of the
@value{LONG} (@value{SHORT}) interface to these components as well as providing a basis for
@value{LONG} control for other @value{LONG} protocols.
@end quotation
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

@chapheading Published by:

@sp 1

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2015  @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*

@noindent
All Rights Reserved.

@sp 1

@noindent
Unauthorized distribution or duplication is prohibited.

@sp 1

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}.

@noindent
Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@chapheading Notice:

@noindent
@strong{OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all
implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title;
that the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.}

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@iftex
@headings off
@everyheading @thistitle @| @thisfile @| @thischaptername
@evenheading @thischapter @| @| @thisfile
@oddheading @thistitle @| @| @thischaptername
@everyfooting Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL} @| @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @thispage
@evenfooting @thispage @| @| Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@oddfooting @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @| @thispage
@end iftex
@page

@c Define an index of primitives
@defcodeindex pr
@c Define an index of primitive values
@defcodeindex pv
@c Define an index of primitive error values
@defcodeindex pe
@c Define an index of protocol states
@defcodeindex st
@c Define an index of input-output controls
@defcodeindex ct
@c Define an index of manual pages.
@defcodeindex mp
@c Define an index of MIB objects.
@defcodeindex mo

@c frags out automake
@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for text, html and info
@syncodeindex pr cp
@syncodeindex pv cp
@syncodeindex pe cp
@syncodeindex st cp
@syncodeindex mp cp
@syncodeindex tp cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex ct cp
@syncodeindex mo cp
@c @end ifnottex

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi
@include texi/prims.texi

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@heading About This Manual
This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of
@cite{The @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version
@value{PACKAGE_VERSION} release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL} of the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Preface::
* Introduction::
* Drivers and Modules::
* Libraries::
* Glossary of MG Terms and Acronyms::
* References::
* Licenses::
@c @iftex
@c * Indices::
@c @end iftex
@c @ifnottex
* Index::
@c @end ifnottex
@end menu

@iftex
@c insert list of figures and tables for printed manuals
@shortcontents
@contents
@heading List of Figures
@listoffloats Figure
@heading List of Tables
@listoffloats Table
@end iftex

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@section Notice

Software in this document and related software is released under the AGPL (@pxref{GNU Affero General
Public License}).  Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for some of the
manual package and some of the documentation.  Consult permission notices contained in the
documentation of those components for more information.

This document is released under the FDL (@pxref{GNU Free Documentation License}) with no invariant
sections, no front-cover texts and no back-cover texts.

@section Abstract

This document is a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} containing technical details concerning the implementation of
the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} for OpenSS7.  It contains recommendations on software architecture as well
as platform and system applicability of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

@noindent
This document specifies a @value{MANUAL_TITLE} Specification in support of the OpenSS7 @value{LONG}
(@value{SHORT}) protocol stacks.  It provides abstraction of the @value{PART} interface to these
components as well as providing a basis for @value{PART} control for other @value{PART} protocols.

@subsection Purpose
@cpindex STREAMS

The purpose of this document is to provide technical documentation of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.
This document is intended to be included with the OpenSS7 @acronym{STREAMS} software package released
by @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation}.  It is intended to assist software developers, maintainers and users
of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} with understanding the software architecture and technical interfaces
that are made available in the software package.

@subsection Intent

It is the intent of this document that it act as the primary source of information concerning the
@value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  This document is intended to provide information for writers of OpenSS7
@value{MANUAL_TITLE} applications as well as writers of OpenSS7 @value{MANUAL_TITLE} Users.

@subsection Audience

The audience for this document is software developers, maintainers and users and integrators of the
@value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  The target audience is developers and users of the OpenSS7 SS7 stack.

@section Revision History

Take care that you are working with a current version of this documentation: you will not be
notified of updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current version, check the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7 Project} website for a current version.

A current version of this specification is normally distributed with the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package, @file{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}}.@footnote{@url{http://www.openss7.org/repos/tarballs/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2}}

@subsection Version Control

@noindent
Although the author has attempted to ensure that the information in this document is complete and
correct, neither the Author nor OpenSS7 Corporation will take any responsibility in it.
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} is making this documentation available as a reference point for the
industry.  While @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} believes that these interfaces are well defined in this
release of the document, minor changes may be made prior to products conforming to the interfaces
being made available.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise this software and
documentation for any reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by
various agencies, utilization of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of
changes in the design of any techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@smallexample
@verbatim
$Log: MG.texi,v $
Revision 1.1.2.4  2011-07-18 19:42:15  brian
- added documentation

Revision 1.1.2.3  2011-02-07 02:21:49  brian
- updated manuals

Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-01-12 03:37:38  brian
- updated manuals

Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:59:42  brian
- added files to new distro

@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@section ISO 9000 Compliance

Only the @TeX{}, texinfo, or roff source for this maual is controlled.  An opaque (printed,
postscript or portable document format) version of this manual is a @strong{UNCONTROLLED VERSION}.

@subsection Disclaimer

@noindent
@strong{@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation
including all implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose,
non-infrincement, or title; that the contents of the manual are suitable for any purpose, or that
the implementation of such contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights,
trademarks or other rights.  In no event shall @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} be liable for any direct,
indirect, special or consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use,
data or profits, whether in an action or contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out
of or in connection with any use of this documentation or the performance or implementation of the
contents thereof.}

@subsection U.S. Government Restricted Rights

If you are licensing this Software on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it is
classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to
the Federal Aquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government is
acquiring only the license rights granded herein (the license rights customarily provided to
non-Government users).  If the Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other
than DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights in the
Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any
successor regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplerment
to the FAR (or any successor regulations).

@section Acknowledgements

@url{http://www.openss7.org/,The OpenSS7 Project} was funded in part by:

@itemize @bullet
@item @url{http://www.monavacon.com/,Monavacon Limited}
@item @url{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation}
@end itemize

Thanks to the subscribers to and sponsors of @url{http://www.openss7.org/, The OpenSS7 Project}.
Without their support, open software like this would not be possible.

As with most open source projects, this project would not have been possible without the valiant
efforts and productive software of the @url{http://www.fsf.org/,Free Software Foundation}, the
@url{http://www.kernel.org/,Linux Kernel Community}, and the open source software movement at large.

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@node Drivers and Modules
@chapter Drivers and Modules

@menu
* Drivers::
* Modules::
* Interfaces::
@end menu

The MG Protocol Suite provides services using a number of @acronym{STREAMS} drivers and modules in
addition to user-space libraries and applications.  @cite{OpenSS7} provides a range of
@acronym{STREAMS} multiplexing drivers, pseudo-device drivers and pushable modules that complement
the primary MG multiplexing driver.

@figref{4} illustrates the @acronym{STREAMS} multiplexing drivers, pseudo-device drivers, and
pushable modules, and their organization.  The modules and drivers toward the top of the diagram are
associated with media gateway control and do not form part of the primary MG suite, but are
discussed in more detail in the VOIP suite.

@figuresized{mg04,4,Media Gateway Drivers and Modules,3.5in}
@figuresized{mg05,5,Media Gateway Drivers and Modules,3.5in}
@figuresized{mg06,6,Media Gateway Drivers and Modules,3.5in}

@node Drivers
@section Drivers

@subsection MG --- Media Gateway Multiplexing Driver

To provide for synchronization and load balancing, the MG driver uses a timing slot approach.
This is illustrated in @figref{3}.
The fundamental timing source is a 1 millisecond pulse.  This timing pulse is both divided and
distributed in single stage.  The timing pulse is divided to 10 milliseconds using 10 action lists.
Each action list has a pulse once every 10 milliseconds.

@figuresized{mg03,3,Timing Slots,2.5in}

This can be modelled using action trees.  The root of the tree is an action list node that executes
each of its sublists each millisecond.  The root node typically contains a single sublist that
contains a divider node that has @var{n} action sublists, and executes 1 of the @var{n} action
sublists every @var{n} milliseconds.

A typical arrangement for the MG driver would be to have a action node as the root node of the
action tree.  This node is executed every millisecond.  The action sublists consist of 5 divider
nodes: one for 10 milliseconds, one for 20 milliseconds, one for 30 milliseconds, 40 and 50.  The
divider nodes could be dynamically assigned (created when the first action requiring @var{n}
millisecond timing is required).  Each of these dividers represents a specific blocking size for RTP
channels or MX drivers.  Dividers with a smaller divisor (i.e. that execute more frequently) are
placed earlier in the lists than those that execute less frequently.  This can reduce overall jitter
in the system.  The assumption here is that processes that execute less frequently will be less
affected by delays in processing.  This is generally true for media streams.

The purpose of the action lists is to perform functions on a regular basis while distributing
actions over the available processor real-time.  Therefore, when action are added to action sublists
of divisor nodes, an attempt is made to equally distribute the load over the sublists.  This can
best be accomplished by assigning a relative weighting factor to the process and selecting the slot
on the basis of the accumulated load for other actions for each list.

So, for example, for tone generation being fed into many RTP channels with a 30 millisecond payload
size, each action node corresponding to an RTP channel is linked into a 30 millisecond
divider/distributor node that will feed some channels with tone samples every 30 milliseconds.  For
60,000 channels, 2,000 channels will be processed every millisecond, permitting 500 nanoseconds of
real-time per channel, per processor.

@subsection MATRIX --- Switching Matrix Multiplexing Driver

@subsection MX --- Multiplex Device Driver

@subsection CH --- Channel Device Driver

@subsection SX --- SONET/SDH Multiplexing Driver

@subsection RTP --- Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP) Driver

@subsection CH-MUX -- Channel Multiplexing Device Driver

@figuresized{mg07,7,Media Gateway Drivers and Modules,2.5in}

@figref{7} illustrates the relationship between the CH-MUX driver and lower level drivers.

The CH multipelxing (CH-MUX) driver is a multiplexing driver that provides a switching nexus for the
purpose of multipexing and demultiplexing channels from upper and lower Streams.  Typically, there
is a single upper multipex Stream that uses the multi-stream CHI interface.  Each of these
multi-stream channels in the upper multiplex Stream may have different codec needs and will be
passed to a different lower multiplex stream depending on the codec in play.  When redundant RTP
streams are used, using different codecs, upper multiplex channel data may be duplicated and passed
to severay lower multiplex streams, each to perform the coding for a different RTP payload format.

The single multi-stream CHI upper multiplex Stream would typically be linked under the MG driver.

Requests for cross-connect must be passed down all the way to the bottom of the RTP-MUX driver
(where the non-media-aware cross-connection function resides).  For latching support and source
address filtering, connection indications from the lowest level UDP driver needs to be passed all
the way to the top.

Because the RTP payload format being used on a given media stream might change during the course of
a call, the upper multiplex of the CH-MUX driver and the lower multiple of the RTP-MUX driver must
be informed of the dynamic RTP payload mapping for a given media stream.  This is performed as a
part of termination point establishment: using CHI primitives that are passed down to the upper
multiplex of the RTP-MUX driver.

The CH-MUX driver might also be devised with two upper multi-stream CHI Streams: one for PCMU and
another for PCMA.  This would allow the prenence of an L16 final stage at the lower multiplex stream
and perform the L16 (well 12- or 14-bits actually) to PCMU or PCMA conversion at the upper stream,
depending on the Stream.  This would allow the MG driver above to perform conversionless
cross-connect.  The MG driver would signal the required native format by opening the termination
point on the appropriate lower stream (one for PCMU, the other for PCMA).

This would be handy because may of the more complex codecs actually require PCMU or PCMA to L16
conversion before the data is passed to the codec.  Also, the result of decoding is also often L16.

Because the major fast-path activity of a Media Gateway is media stream cross-connect, the CH-MUX
driver is also capable for matrix switching (or cross-connect) under the control of either the MG
module above or under the control of a user-space application.  This permits the channel data
received on one lower stream on the multiplex to be sent on another, directly, and without MG driver
or user-space application intervention in the media stream.  Some basic functions should also be
provided in the cross-connection (i.e. PCMU to PCMA conversion, digital padding, mixing, agc,
conferencing, DTMF and tone substitution, half-echo suppression, etc).

@subsection RTP-MUX -- Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP) Multiplexing (MUX) Driver

@figref{7} illustrates the relationship between the RTP-MUX driver and upper and lower level
drivers.

The RTP Multiplexing (RTP-MUX) driver is a multiplexing driver that provides a switching nexus for
the purpose of forwarding (cross-connecting) non-media-aware RTP streams as well as providing upper
multiple stream selection for transcoding.  Messages entering the lower multiplex are demultiplexed
into STUN, RTP and RTCP messages.  If non-media-aware cross-connect is to be performed, RTP and RTCP
packets are IP address and port translated and sent back down (passed to the write side of the lower
multiplex queue pair).  STUN packets are always sent upstream on a dedicated STUN stream opened on
the upper multiplex so that a separate STUN application can deal with these packets outside of the
normal data stream.  If transcoding or media termination is to be performed, RTP and RTCP packets
are processed for adaptive jitter buffering and full RTP/RTCP stream termination and sent upward on
an appropriate stream.  The upper multiplex stream is selected based on the transcoding that needs
to be performed.  The upper multiplex stream does not perform the transcoding itself: the
transcoding is provided by modules that are pushed (or autopushed) over the upper multiplex stream.
This ensures that transcoding is performed in batches for maximum instruction cache efficiency.
Also, complex codecs can be broken into any suitable number of stages, each stage implemented as
another pushed module.  Some upper multiplex streams with such modules pushed might be
unidirectional or biderctional.  That is, some may only transcode in one direction, whereas, others
may transcode in both directions.  Transcoding is always performed from the native payload format to
G.711 mu-law (PCMU) or G.711 A-law (PCMA).

DTMF digits using the DTMF digits and tones RTP payload format are also translated to PCMU or PCMA
by a transcoding module stack.  Should the end-to-end transcoding require separate DTMF and tone RTP
streams at both ends of the sessions, RTP payloads formats for DTMF are non-media-aware
cross-connected instead of being transcoded.  The same is true for comfort noise.

Handling of redundant RTP media streams is a little more complex.  Redundant media streams that use
the same payload format are pruned at the lower multiplex where RTP adaptive jitter buffering is
being performed.  Redundant media streams that use different payloads, might require taking separate
paths thru different upper multiplex Streams to perform the separate transcoding required on
redundant information.

Upper multiplex Streams provide a CH interface instead of the NPI interface used by the lower
multiplex.  The upper multiple Streams use the multi-stream CH interface (the normal CHI interface
with 64-bit tags prefixed onto each and every message).

A simple multiplexing driver used to merge the CHI streams from below back into a single
multi-stream CHI Stream can be used.  Such a multiplexing driver can also performed the
demultiplexing required in the downward direction to again select the appropriate transcoding for
the contained PCMU or PCMA media stream.

The RTP-MUX driver performs the following functions at the lower queue pair:

@itemize @bullet
@item Accepts and queues RTP, RTCP and STUN packets from the multi-stream NPI interface from below
(at the lower service interface boundary).

@item Demultiplexes the RTP, RTCP and STUN packets in the lower multiplex read queue service
procedure and passes those packets through the appropriate upper multiplex queue pairs.  Note that
there is one upper multiplex queue pair for each payload format.

@item Accepts RTP, RTCP and STUN packets from upper multiplex streams and passes them downstream to
the UDP driver below the lower multiplex service interface.

@item Accepts RTP, RTCP and STUN packets over the multi-stream NPI interface from below (at the
lower service interface boundary).

@item Where transcoding of RTP and RTCP packets received from below are required, performs any
necessary adaptive or non-adaptive jitter buffering and rate adaption.

Note, however, that adaptive or non-adaptive jitter buffering is not necessary in all cases.  For
example, when transcoding 50ms G.729 packets to G.711 (PCMU), each G.729 packet can be transcoded
into 10 x 10ms G.711 (PCMU) packets without buffering.

@item Passes STUN packets received from below to a specialized STUN upper multiplex stream for
processing by upper layer applications.

@item Accepts RTP, RTCP and STUN packets from above and passes those packets down to the UDP driver
beneath the lower service interface.
@end itemize

@subsection RSW --- RTP Switch (RSW) Driver

The RTP Switch (RSW) driver is a multiplexing driver that provides a switching matrix of multiplex
RTP media streams to and from the UDP driver that is linked beneath the multiplexer.  A single
multiplex UDP stream is provided at the lower interface and multiple UDP streams are provided at the
upper interface.  The driver provides simply switching between RTP streams at the lower interface.
This permits the RTP and RTCP packets from one UDP multiplex stream to be switched to and from
another UDP multiplex stream.

Because RTP/RTCP packets can be switched between any upper or lower channel and any other upper or
lower channel, this acts as a general purpose multiplexing driver.  Typical use is to open an
independent upper Stream for each AVT profile payload type and push an RTP module over each Stream
to perform jitter buffering and other RTP/RTCP termination functions.

@subsection UDP --- User Datagram Protocol (UDP) Driver

@figref{7} illustrates the relationship between the UDP driver and upper level modules and drivers.
Directly above the UDP driver is the RTP-MUX driver.  The UDP driver performs the following
functions:

@itemize @bullet
@item Terminates UDP packets and passes them upstream.
@item Accepts UDP packets from upstream and sends them out of a UDP termination.
@item Cross-connects incoming UDP packets to outgoing UDP packets with IP address and port
translation.
@item Implements a multi-stream NPI interface at the upper service interface boundary.
@end itemize

The User Datagram Protocol (UDP) driver is a pseudo-device driver that provides access to the Linux
UDP subsystem for the purpose of supporting Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP).  This pseudo-device
networking driver is the second generation UDP driver (@file{/dev/udp2}) that is provided as a pure
@acronym{STREAMS} version of the older XTIoS driver.

This driver has been specially modified to also suit the needs of large-scale RTP implementations.
For large-scale devices it is not efficient to link each and every RTP media stream under a
multiplexing driver.  For example, should the application require 64,000 RTP media streams, the
normal UDP driver would require the opening and linking of 64,000 file descriptors.  This is not
possible on a normally configured Linux system (which has a maximum of about 8192 file descriptors).
Also, even it were possible, this would mean that each of the 64,000 queues would have to be
serviced once every 10 milliseconds or so.

To avoid this problem, the NPI service interface was altered on one of the clone minor device nodes
of the UDP2 driver to permit an unlimited number of NPI connections to be managed on a single
Stream.  This was accomplished by prepending a 64-bit tag to each and every NPI service primitive
send on the Stream.

@node Modules
@section Modules

@subsection XC --- Transcoding (XC) Module

A number of transcoding modules are used, one set for each possible codec in a stack.  When more
than one module is stacked, each module in the stack performs one stage of the codec calculations
and passed the packet or intermediate results along the stack.

Transcoding modules use the multi-stream CHI interface on both the upper and lower interfaces.

Transcoding modules perform the following functions:
@itemize @bullet
@item Accept data for encoding from above.  Data from above is not necessarily in sequence and may
be lossy.  If the encoding algorithm requires block sequencing of input data, a stage of adaptive
transparent jitter buffering may be required to accumulate sufficient amounts of data within a block
and to detect loss events.  (See below for notes about transparent adaptive jitter buffering.) Data
accepted from above should always be in PCMU, PCMA or L16 payload formats.
@item Encode data.
@item Pass encoded data packets to RTP drivers below.
@item Accept packets for decoding from below.
@item Decode packets.
@item Pass decoded data upstream.  Decoded data does not necessarily have to be in sequence and may
be lossy.  It is expected that, if upper layers require data in sequence and detection of loss
events, that a stage of transparent adaptive jitter buffering be performed at or before the point
that sequencing is required.  (See below for notes about transparent adaptive jitter buffering.)
Data passed downstream should always be in native (transcoded) payload format.
@end itemize

At several stages in the transcoding modules, there is a need for sequencing of media chunks into
blocks for encoding.  It should be noted that this resequencing of data is not jitter buffering in
the traditional sense and this is why it is referred to as `transparent' jitter buffering.  In a
normal jitter buffering, packets are played out at a constant rate in accordance with an interval
clock.  That is not the case for `transparent' jitter buffering where packets are played out as soon
as a block of them become available.  Normal jitter buffering will declare loss events and
play-through the missing packet.  `Transparent' jitter buffering plays-around missing packets and
can therefore, wait for a much longer period of time before declaring them lost (leaving the
decision whether to play-through up to the terminating jitter buffer).  When a block with a gap
reaches a maximum age (or where the number of retained gap blocks exceeds a maximum allocation), the
block is discarded (or a loss packet generated).  The block-size is the number of packets of
transcoded media that is generated from one incoming packet.  When the block-size is greater than or
equal to one, and is an integral number, no resequencing is required, and each packet simply results
in the generation of block-size (one or more) transcoded packets.  If the block-size is less than
one or non-integral (e.g. one 1.67 30ms G.711 packets are required to generate one 50ms G.729
packet), `transparent' adaptive jitter buffering is required.

Where it is possible to generate packets with a varying amount of payload up to a potentially
maximum size, transcoding is more efficient when it uses a outgoing payload size (milliseconds) that
is equal to the incoming packet payload size (milliseconds).  When an adjacent incoming packet or
packets is awaiting the received packet to form a block, the maximum contiguous block size should be
used: that which is available considering the waiting packets and permitted given the payload format
and session information.

The degree of `transparent' adaptive jitter buffering that is performed is highly dependent on the
available payload sizes and characteristic maximums as set for the session in the SDP Offer/Answer
exchange.

@subsection UDP-SW --- User Datagram Protocol (UDP) Switching (SW) Module

The UDP switching module is pushed over the UDP multi-stream driver.  The UDP switching module is
responsible for performing non-media-aware switching between two lower streams in the UDP
multi-stream, performing IP address and port translation in the process.  The UDP switching module
is also responsible for demultiplexing STUN packets from RTP and RTCP and passing the STUN packets
upstream instead of switching them.  Unfortunately this type of module would be wasteful of state
resources should the majority of RTP streams be simply passed from beneath to above (and visa
versa), so this function is integrated into the lower queues of the RTP-MUX driver instead.

@subsection RTP --- Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP) Module

The RTP module is a module pushed over a UDP Stream or multi-Stream that provides RTP jitter
buffering and resynchronization, independent of the AVT payload.  This is accomplished using only
the RTP header fields.  The only buffering that is performed is buffering out of sequence packets
awaiting messing packets in the sequence (reordering).  Complete sequences of packets are delivered
upstream as soon as they are available.  This buffering and resequencing can be performed in both
directions.  Media streams that do not require buffering will simply be monitored as the algorithm
has no effect on correctly ordered packets.  When delays awaiting missing packets exceeds specified
parameters, subsequent packets will be delivered.  Should the missing packet later arrive, it will
be dropped.  Because the module does not know about payload formats, it does not attempt to fill in
silence or any other substitute for missing packets.

The RTP module can support RTCP control and reporting on any RTP media channel.

The RTP module can also support a pass-through capability on RTP media channels.  This is useful for
AVT profile payload formats that do not require state information for reassembly (such as G.711).
In this case, there is simply a 1:1 packet sequence mapping between the input and output channels.
Nevertheless, when in transparent mode, the RTP module can still support RTCP control and reporting.

The RTP module is normally pushed over a multi-Stream UDP driver that provides the UDP connectivity
for supporting many RTP media channels.  It presents a control interface based on NPI just as does
the UDP multi-stream pseudo-device driver.

@subsection RTP-CH --- Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP) Channel (CH) Module

The RTP-CH module is an RTP to Channel conversion module that support transcoding.  This module is
intended on being pushed over an RTP module.  It supports a multi-Stream Channel Interface (CHI) at
the upper interface and a UDP interface using the multi-Stream Network Provider Interface (NPI) at
the lower interface.  The purpose of this module is to adapt between an MG driver lower multiplex at
the upper interface and a multi-Stream UDP driver or RTP Switch driver at the lower interface.

The module expects de-jittered RTP input at the lower interface and unpacks and transcodes the AVT
profile payload into channel samples that are PCM A-Law, @math{\mu}-Law or Linear (signed 16-bit).
The module expects a steady stream of PCM A-Law, @math{\mu}-Law or Linear (signed 16-bit) samples on
the upper interface which it will encode in the appropriate format for output on the lower
interface.  The simplest instance of the RTP-CH module simply packs and unpacks PCM @math{\mu}-Law
samples to and from G.711 RTP packets.

For efficiency on large scale systems, one RTP-CH module instance should be created for each coding
format.  This is so that instruction caches will be kept hot for transcoding blocks of packets.


@subsection RTP-TEST --- Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP) Test Driver

The RTP Test module is a @acronym{STREAMS} module that can be pushed over a multiplex UDP Stream and
provides the ability to generate a significant amount of RTP media traffic for testing purposes.
UDP multiplex NPI control messages are transparently passed through the module to the lower UDP
multiplex Stream, forming and releasing connections as required.  However, multiplex UDP NPI data
messages received from the lower Stream are simply discarded; whereas, UDP NPI data messages written
to the module on multiplex 0 are duplicated to each of the connected UDP NPI multiplexes on the
lower interface.

@node Interfaces
@section Interfaces

@node Libraries
@chapter Libraries

@node Glossary of MG Terms and Acronyms
@appendix Glossary of MG Terms and Acronyms

@multitable @columnfractions 0.15 0.85
@item @dfn{ANSI} @tab American National Standards Institute
@item @dfn{CCITT} @tab The International Telegraph and Telephone Consutative Committee, old name for ITU-T
@item @dfn{CONS} @tab Connection-Oriented Network Service
@item @dfn{CUD} @tab Call User Data
@item @dfn{DCE} @tab Data Circuit-terminating Equipment
@item @dfn{DDN} @tab Defence Data Network
@item @dfn{DLPI} @tab Data Link Provider Interface
@item @dfn{DLSAP} @tab Destination Link Service Access Point
@item @dfn{DNIC} @tab Data Network Identification Code
@item @dfn{DSAP} @tab Destination Service Access Point
@item @dfn{DTE} @tab Data Terminal Equipment 
@item @dfn{ENSDU} @tab Expedited Network Service Data Unit
@item @dfn{ETSI} @tab European Telecommunications Standards Institute
@item @dfn{HDLC} @tab High-Level Data Link Control
@item @dfn{IEEE} @tab Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
@item @dfn{IP} @tab Internet Protocol
@item @dfn{ISDNI} @tab ISDN Interface
@item @dfn{ISDN} @tab Integrated Services Digital Network
@item @dfn{ISO} @tab International Organization for Standardization
@item @dfn{ISUPI} @tab ISUP Interface
@item @dfn{ISUP} @tab ISDN User Part
@item @dfn{ITU} @tab International Telecommunications Union
@item @dfn{ITU-T} @tab ITU Telecom Sector
@item @dfn{LAN} @tab Local Area Network
@item @dfn{LAPB} @tab Link Access Procedure (Balanced), ISO/IEC 7776
@item @dfn{LAPD} @tab Link Access Procedure D-Channel, Q.921
@item @dfn{LAPF} @tab Link Access Procedure Frame Mode, Q.922
@item @dfn{LAP} @tab Link Access Procedure
@item @dfn{LCI} @tab Logical Channel Identifier
@item @dfn{LLC1} @tab Logical Link Control Type 1
@item @dfn{LLC2} @tab Logical Link Control Type 2
@item @dfn{LLC3} @tab Logical Link Control Type 3
@item @dfn{LLC} @tab Logical Link Control
@item @dfn{LLI} @tab Logical Link Inteface
@item @dfn{LSAP} @tab Link Service Access Point
@item @dfn{MAC} @tab Media Access Control
@item @dfn{MTPI} @tab Message Transfer Part Interface
@item @dfn{MTP} @tab Message Transfer Part 
@item @dfn{NLI} @tab Network Layer Interface
@item @dfn{NPDU} @tab Network Protocol Data Unit
@item @dfn{NPI} @tab Network Provider Interface
@item @dfn{NPI} @tab Numbering Plan Indicator
@item @dfn{NSAP} @tab Network Service Access Point
@item @dfn{NSDU} @tab Network Service Data Unit
@item @dfn{NSP} @tab Network Service Provider
@item @dfn{NS} @tab Network Service
@item @dfn{NSU} @tab Network Service User
@item @dfn{NUI} @tab Network User Information
@item @dfn{PAD} @tab Packet Assembler/Disassembler
@item @dfn{PDN} @tab Public Data Network
@item @dfn{PDU} @tab Protocol Data Unit
@item @dfn{PLP} @tab Packet Layer Protocol
@item @dfn{PPA} @tab Physical Point of Attachment
@item @dfn{PSDN} @tab Public Switched Data Network
@item @dfn{PSTN} @tab Public Switch Telephone Network
@item @dfn{PVC} @tab Permanent Virtual Circuit
@item @dfn{QOS} @tab Quality of Service
@item @dfn{RPOA} @tab Recognized Private Operating Agency
@item @dfn{SAP} @tab Service Access Point
@item @dfn{SCCPI} @tab Signalling Connection Control Part Interface
@item @dfn{SCCP} @tab Signalling Connection Control Part
@item @dfn{SDLI} @tab Signalling Data Link Interface
@item @dfn{SDL} @tab Signalling Data Link
@item @dfn{SDTI} @tab Signalling Data Terminal Interface
@item @dfn{SDT} @tab Signalling Data Terminal
@item @dfn{SDU} @tab Service Data Unit
@item @dfn{SLI} @tab Signalling Link Interface
@item @dfn{SLSAP} @tab Source Link Service Access Point
@item @dfn{SL} @tab Signalling Link
@item @dfn{SNPA} @tab Subnetwork Point of Attachment
@item @dfn{SSAP} @tab Source Service Access Point
@item @dfn{SVC} @tab Switched Virtual Circuit
@item @dfn{TCAP} @tab Transaction Capabilities Application Part
@item @dfn{TCI} @tab Transaction Component Interface
@item @dfn{TC} @tab Component Handling Sub-Layer
@item @dfn{TLI} @tab Transport Layer Interface
@item @dfn{TOA/NPI} @tab Type of Address/Numbering Plan Indicator
@item @dfn{TOA} @tab Type of Address
@item @dfn{TPI} @tab Transport Provider Interface
@item @dfn{TRI} @tab Transaction Interface
@item @dfn{TR} @tab Transaction Handling Sub-Layer
@item @dfn{VC} @tab Virtual Circuit
@item @dfn{WAN} @tab Wide Area Network
@item @dfn{X.121} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.121
@item @dfn{X.25} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.25
@item @dfn{X.28} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.28
@item @dfn{X.3} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.3
@item @dfn{X.75} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.75
@item @dfn{XX25} @tab X.25 Programming Inteface using XTI
@item @dfn{XXX} @tab X.3, X.28, X.29
@end multitable

@node References
@unnumbered References

@multitable @columnfractions 0.2 0.8

@item [AIXlink/X.25] @anchor{AIXlink/X.25} @tab @cite{AIXlink/X.25 Version 2.1
for AIX: Guide and Reference}, No: SC23-2520-07, Eighth Edition, September 2006,
(Bolder, CO), International Business Machine Corp., IBM.
@uref{http://publibn.bould.ibm.com/,IBM Documentation Library}.

@item [ARTIC WAN] @anchor{ARTIC WAN} @tab @cite{ARTIC STREAMS Support WAN Driver
Interface Reference}, Release 1.7, June 2004, (Hillsboro, OR), RadiSys
Corporation, RadiSys. [Doc No: 007-01232-0003], @uref{http://www.radisys.com/,
RadiSys Support Documentation}.

@item [CDI] @anchor{CDI} @tab @cite{OpenSS7 CAE Specification: Communications
Device Interface (CDI) Specification}, Revision @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}, Draft
@value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, @value{PACKAGE_PDATE}, (Edmonton, Canada), B.
Bidulock, OpenSS7 Corporation.  Distributed with package @file{strxns-0.9.2}
and @file{openss7-0.9.2}.  @url{http://www.openss7.org/docs/cdi.pdf, OpenSS7
Documents}.

@item [DLPI] @anchor{DLPI} @tab @cite{Open Group CAE Specification: Data Link
Provider Interface (DLPI) Specification}, Revision 2.0.0, Draft 2, August 20,
1992, (Reprinted @value{PACKAGE_PDATE}) (Parsippany, New Jersey), UNIX
International, Inc., UNIX International Press.
@uref{http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/,The Open Group},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/docs/dlpi.pdf,The OpenSS7 Project}.

@item [IRIS SX.25] @anchor{IRIS SX.25} @tab @cite{IRIS SX.25 NLI Programmer's
Guide}, 1995, (Mountainview, CA), Silicon Graphics, Inc., SGI Technical
Publications. [No: 007-2268-002]. @uref{http://techpubs.sgi.com/,SGI Technical
Publications}.

@item [ISO3309] @anchor{ISO3309} @tab @b{ISO/IEC 3309:1988}, @cite{Information
Technology -- Data Communications -- High-Level Data Link Control procedures --
Frame Structure}, 1988, ISO/IEC, International Orgianization for
Standardization.  @uref{http://www.iso.org/,International Organization for
Standardization}.

@item [ISO7776] @anchor{ISO7776} @tab @b{ISO/IEC 7776:1995}, @cite{Information
technology --- Telecommunications information exchange between systems ---
High-level data link control procedures --- Description of the X.25
LAPB-compatible DTE data link procedures}, Second Edition, July 1, 1995,
International Organization for Standardization.
@uref{http://www.iso.org/,International Organization for Standardization}.

@item [ISO8208] @anchor{ISO8208} @tab @b{ISO/IEC 8208:2000}, @cite{Information
Technology --- Data Communications --- X.25 Packet Layer Protocol for Data
Terminal Equipment}, Fourth Edition, November 1, 2000, (Geneva), ISO/IEC,
International Organization for Standardization.
@uref{http://www.iso.org/,International Organization for Standardization}.

@item [ISO8802-2] @anchor{ISO8802-2} @tab @b{ANSI/IEEE Standard 802.2-1998
[ISO/IEC 8802-2:1998]}, @cite{IEEE Standard for Information Technology ---
Telecommunications and Information Exchange Between Systems --- Local and
Metropolitan Area Networks --- Specific Requirements --- Part 2: Logical Link
Control}, May 7, 1998, (New York), ANSI/IEEE, IEEE Computer Society. [ISBN
1-55937-959-6]. @uref{http://www.ieee.org/,Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers}.

@item [ISO8881] @anchor{ISO8881} @tab @b{ISO/IEC 8881:1989}, @cite{Information
Processing Systems --- Data Communications --- User of the X.25 Packet Level
Protocol in Local Area Networks}, 1989, ISO/IEC, International Organization for
Standardization. @uref{http://www.iso.org/,International Organization for
Standardization}.

@item [X.25] @tab @cite{ITU-T Recommendation X.25}.

@item [X.29] @tab @cite{ITU-T Recommendation X.29}.

@item [NPI] @anchor{NPI} @tab @cite{Open Group CAE Specification: Network
Provider Interface (NPI) Specification}, Revision 2.0.0, Draft 2, August 17,
1992, (Parisppany, New Jersey), UNIX International, Inc., UNIX International
Press.  @uref{http://www.openss7.org/docs/npi.pdf,The OpenSS7 Project}.

@item [Solstice X.25] @anchor{Solstice X.25} @tab @cite{Solstice X.25 9.2
Administration Guide}, October 1999, (Palo Alto, CA), Sun Microsystems, Inc.,
Sun. [Part No: 806-1234-10], @uref{http://docs-pdf.sun.com/, Solaris
Documentation}.

@item [TPI] @anchor{TPI} @tab @cite{Open Group CAE Specification: Transport
Provider Interface (TPI) Specification}, Revision 2.0.0, Draft 2, 1999,
(Berkshire, UK), Open Group, Open Group Publication.
@uref{http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/,The Open Group},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/docs/tpi.pdf,The OpenSS7 Project}.

@item [V.25 bis] @anchor{V.25 bis} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation V.25 bis (10/96)},
@cite{Synchronous and asynchronous automatic dialing procedures on switched
networks}, October 1996, (Geneva), ITU, ITU-T Telecommunication Standardization
Sector of ITU, (Previously ``CCITT Recommendation''),
@url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-V.25bis/en/ T-REC-V.25bis}.

@item [X.21] @anchor{X.21} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation X.21 (09/92)},
@cite{Interface between Data Terminal Equipment (DTE) and Data
Circuit-terminating Equiment (DCE) for synchronous operation on Public Data
Networks}, September 1992, (Geneva), ITU, ITU-T Telecommunication
Standardization Sector of ITU.  (Previously ``CCITT Recommendation''),
@url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.21/en/, T-REC-X.21}.

@item [X.21 bis] @anchor{X.21 bis} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation X.21 bis (03/88)},
@cite{Use on Public Data Networks of Data Terminal Equipment (DTE) which is
designed for interfacing to synchronous V-series modems}, March 1988, (Geneva),
ITU, ITU-T Telecommunication Standardization Sector of ITU. (Previously ``CCITT
Recommendation''), @url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.21bis/en/,
T-REC-X.21bis}.

@item [X.25] @anchor{X.25} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation X.25}.
@url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.25/en/, T-REC-X.25}.

@item [X.75] @anchor{X.75} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation X.75}.
@url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.75/en/, T-REC-X.75}.

@item [X.29] @anchor{X.29} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation X.29}.
@url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.29/en/, T-REC-X.29}.

@item [XX25] @anchor{XX25} @tab @cite{X/Open CAE Specification: X.25 Programming
Interface using XTI (XX25)}, No. c411, November 1995, (Berkshire, UK), X/Open,
Open Group Publication. [ISBN: 1-85912-136-5].
@uref{http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/,The Open Group}.

@end multitable

@node Licenses
@unnumbered Licenses
@cindex licenses

All code presented in this manual is licensed under the @ref{GNU Affero General Public License}.
The text of this manual is licensed under the @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}, with no
invariant sections, no front-cover texts and no back-cover texts.  Please note, however, that it is
just plain wrong to modify statements of, or attribute statements to, the Author or @cite{OpenSS7
Corporation}.

@menu
* GNU Affero General Public License::
* GNU Free Documentation License::
@end menu

@include texi/agpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/fdl13.texi

@ifnotplaintext
@c skip indexes for plain text (regex search works better)
@c @iftex
@c @node Indices
@c @unnumbered Indices
@c @end iftex

@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for html and info
@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp
@c @end ifnottex

@c @iftex
@c @menu
@c * Concept Index::
@c * Protocol State Index::
@c * Primitive Index::
@c * Primitive Structure and Type Index::
@c * Primitive Structure Field Index::
@c * Primitive Values Index::
@c * Primitive Error Values Index::
@c * Input-Output Control Index::
@c * MIB Object Index::
@c * Manual Page Index::
@c @end menu
@c 
@c @node Concept Index
@c @section Concept Index
@c @printindex cp
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Protocol State Index
@c @section Protocol State Index
@c @printindex st
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Index
@c @section Primitive Index
@c @printindex pr
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Structure and Type Index
@c @section Primitive Structure and Type Index
@c @printindex tp
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Structure Field Index
@c @section Primitive Structure Field Index
@c @printindex vr
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Values Index
@c @section Primitive Values Index
@c @printindex pv
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Error Values Index
@c @section Primitive Error Values Index
@c @printindex pe
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Input-Output Control Index
@c @section Input-Output Control Index
@c @printindex ct
@c 
@c @page
@c @node MIB Object Index
@c @section MIB Object Index
@c @printindex mo
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Manual Page Index
@c @section Manual Page Index
@c @printindex mp
@c @end iftex
@end ifnotplaintext

@bye
