% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
% vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=100
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id$
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
% Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
% Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
% under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
% any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
% Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
% copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
% Documentation License".
%
% Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without
% modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby
% granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
% permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7
% Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
% distribution of this documentation or its contents without specific,
% written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation
% about the suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is
% provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
% 
% Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
% results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
% notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
% (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
% 
% OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
% DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
% FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE
% CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE
% IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY
% PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
% OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
% CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
% USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
% OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
% THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS
% THEREOF.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
%
% =========================================================================

\input texinfo
@setfilename PHYS.info
@include ../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Physical Protocol Suite
@set MANUAL_TYPE Users Manual
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}

@dircategory OpenSS7
@direntry
* PHYS: (PHYS).		    Physical Protocol Suite
@end direntry

@include ../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Physical Protocol Suite
@set MANUAL_TYPE Users Manual

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file provides the @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of the
@cite{@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2009  @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2001  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}.

Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results, provided the printed
document carries copying permission notice identical to this one except for the removal of this
paragraph (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT
THE CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN
NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
@end ifinfo

@include ../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Physical Protocol Suite
@set MANUAL_TYPE Users Manual

@set PART Physical Protocol Suite
@set LONG Physical Protocol Suite
@set SHORT PHYS
@set INTERFACE PHYS

@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_PDATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Distributed with Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@sp 2
@subtitle Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2009 Monavacon Limited
@subtitle All Rights Reserved.
@sp 4
@quotation
@chapheading Abstract:
This document is a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} containing technical details concerning the implementation of
the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} for OpenSS7.  It contains recommendations on software architecture as well
as platform and system applicability of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  It provides abstraction of the
@value{LONG} (@value{SHORT}) interface to these components as well as providing a basis for
@value{LONG} control for other @value{LONG} protocols.
@end quotation
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

@chapheading Published by:

@sp 1

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2009  @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*

@noindent
All Rights Reserved.

@sp 1

@noindent
Unauthorized distribution or duplication is prohibited.

@sp 1

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}.

@noindent
Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@chapheading Notice:

@noindent
@strong{OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all
implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title;
that the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.}

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@iftex
@headings off
@everyheading @thistitle @| @thisfile @| @thischaptername
@evenheading @thischapter @| @| @thisfile
@oddheading @thistitle @| @| @thischaptername
@everyfooting Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL} @| @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @thispage
@evenfooting @thispage @| @| Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@oddfooting @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @| @thispage
@end iftex
@page

@c Define an index of primitives
@defcodeindex pr
@c Define an index of primitive values
@defcodeindex pv
@c Define an index of primitive error values
@defcodeindex pe
@c Define an index of protocol states
@defcodeindex st
@c Define an index of input-output controls
@defcodeindex ct
@c Define an index of manual pages.
@defcodeindex mp
@c Define an index of MIB objects.
@defcodeindex mo

@c frags out automake
@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for text, html and info
@syncodeindex pr cp
@syncodeindex pv cp
@syncodeindex pe cp
@syncodeindex st cp
@syncodeindex mp cp
@syncodeindex tp cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex ct cp
@syncodeindex mo cp
@c @end ifnottex

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi
@include texi/prims.texi

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@heading About This Manual
This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of
@cite{The @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version
@value{PACKAGE_VERSION} release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL} of the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Preface::
* Introduction::
* Drivers and Modules::
* Libraries::
* Glossary of PHYS Terms and Acronyms::
* References::
* Licenses::
@c @iftex
@c * Indices::
@c @end iftex
@c @ifnottex
* Index::
@c @end ifnottex
@end menu

@iftex
@c insert list of figures and tables for printed manuals
@page
@heading List of Figures
@listoffloats Figure
@page
@heading List of Tables
@listoffloats Table
@end iftex

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@section Notice

Software in this document and related software is released under the AGPL (@pxref{GNU Affero General
Public License}).  Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for some of the
manual package and some of the documentation.  Consult permission notices contained in the
documentation of those components for more information.

This document is released under the FDL (@pxref{GNU Free Documentation License}) with no invariant
sections, no front-cover texts and no back-cover texts.

@section Abstract

This document is a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} containing technical details concerning the implementation of
the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} for OpenSS7.  It contains recommendations on software architecture as well
as platform and system applicability of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

@noindent
This document specifies a @value{MANUAL_TITLE} Specification in support of the OpenSS7 @value{LONG}
(@value{SHORT}) protocol stacks.  It provides abstraction of the @value{PART} interface to these
components as well as providing a basis for @value{PART} control for other @value{PART} protocols.

@subsection Purpose
@cpindex STREAMS

The purpose of this document is to provide technical documentation of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.
This document is intended to be included with the OpenSS7 @acronym{STREAMS} software package released
by @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation}.  It is intended to assist software developers, maintainers and users
of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} with understanding the software architecture and technical interfaces
that are made available in the software package.

@subsection Intent

It is the intent of this document that it act as the primary source of information concerning the
@value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  This document is intended to provide information for writers of OpenSS7
@value{MANUAL_TITLE} applications as well as writers of OpenSS7 @value{MANUAL_TITLE} Users.

@subsection Audience

The audience for this document is software developers, maintainers and users and integrators of the
@value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  The target audience is developers and users of the OpenSS7 SS7 stack.

@section Revision History

Take care that you are working with a current version of this documentation: you will not be
notified of updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current version, check the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7 Project} website for a current version.

A current version of this specification is normally distributed with the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package, @file{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}}.@footnote{@url{http://www.openss7.org/repos/tarballs/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2}}

@subsection Version Control

@noindent
Although the author has attempted to ensure that the information in this document is complete and
correct, neither the Author nor OpenSS7 Corporation will take any responsibility in it.
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} is making this documentation available as a reference point for the
industry.  While @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} believes that these interfaces are well defined in this
release of the document, minor changes may be made prior to products conforming to the interfaces
being made available.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise this software and
documentation for any reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by
various agencies, utilization of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of
changes in the design of any techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@smallexample
@verbatim
$Log$
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@section ISO 9000 Compliance

Only the @TeX{}, texinfo, or roff source for this maual is controlled.  An opaque (printed,
postscript or portable document format) version of this manual is a @strong{UNCONTROLLED VERSION}.

@subsection Disclaimer

@noindent
@strong{@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation
including all implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose,
non-infrincement, or title; that the contents of the manual are suitable for any purpose, or that
the implementation of such contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights,
trademarks or other rights.  In no event shall @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} be liable for any direct,
indirect, special or consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use,
data or profits, whether in an action or contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out
of or in connection with any use of this documentation or the performance or implementation of the
contents thereof.}

@subsection U.S. Government Restricted Rights

If you are licensing this Software on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it is
classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to
the Federal Aquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government is
acquiring only the license rights granded herein (the license rights customarily provided to
non-Government users).  If the Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other
than DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights in the
Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any
successor regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplerment
to the FAR (or any successor regulations).

@section Acknowledgements

@url{http://www.openss7.org/,The OpenSS7 Project} was funded in part by:

@itemize @bullet
@item @url{http://www.monavacon.com/,Monavacon Limited}
@item @url{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation}
@end itemize

Thanks to the subscribers to and sponsors of @url{http://www.openss7.org/, The OpenSS7 Project}.
Without their support, open software like this would not be possible.

As with most open source projects, this project would not have been possible without the valiant
efforts and productive software of the @url{http://www.fsf.org/,Free Software Foundation}, the
@url{http://www.kernel.org/,Linux Kernel Community}, and the open source software movement at large.

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@node Drivers and Modules
@chapter Drivers and Modules

@figuresized{phys01,1,Physical Drivers and Modules,5.0in}

@node Libraries
@chapter Libraries

@node Glossary of PHYS Terms and Acronyms
@appendix Glossary of PHYS Terms and Acronyms

@multitable @columnfractions 0.15 0.85
@item @dfn{ANSI} @tab American National Standards Institute
@item @dfn{CCITT} @tab The International Telegraph and Telephone Consutative Committee, old name for ITU-T
@item @dfn{CONS} @tab Connection-Oriented Network Service
@item @dfn{CUD} @tab Call User Data
@item @dfn{DCE} @tab Data Circuit-terminating Equipment
@item @dfn{DDN} @tab Defence Data Network
@item @dfn{DLPI} @tab Data Link Provider Interface
@item @dfn{DLSAP} @tab Destination Link Service Access Point
@item @dfn{DNIC} @tab Data Network Identification Code
@item @dfn{DSAP} @tab Destination Service Access Point
@item @dfn{DTE} @tab Data Terminal Equipment 
@item @dfn{ENSDU} @tab Expedited Network Service Data Unit
@item @dfn{ETSI} @tab European Telecommunications Standards Institute
@item @dfn{HDLC} @tab High-Level Data Link Control
@item @dfn{IEEE} @tab Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
@item @dfn{IP} @tab Internet Protocol
@item @dfn{ISDNI} @tab ISDN Interface
@item @dfn{ISDN} @tab Integrated Services Digital Network
@item @dfn{ISO} @tab International Organization for Standardization
@item @dfn{ISUPI} @tab ISUP Interface
@item @dfn{ISUP} @tab ISDN User Part
@item @dfn{ITU} @tab International Telecommunications Union
@item @dfn{ITU-T} @tab ITU Telecom Sector
@item @dfn{LAN} @tab Local Area Network
@item @dfn{LAPB} @tab Link Access Procedure (Balanced), ISO/IEC 7776
@item @dfn{LAPD} @tab Link Access Procedure D-Channel, Q.921
@item @dfn{LAPF} @tab Link Access Procedure Frame Mode, Q.922
@item @dfn{LAP} @tab Link Access Procedure
@item @dfn{LCI} @tab Logical Channel Identifier
@item @dfn{LLC1} @tab Logical Link Control Type 1
@item @dfn{LLC2} @tab Logical Link Control Type 2
@item @dfn{LLC3} @tab Logical Link Control Type 3
@item @dfn{LLC} @tab Logical Link Control
@item @dfn{LLI} @tab Logical Link Inteface
@item @dfn{LSAP} @tab Link Service Access Point
@item @dfn{MAC} @tab Media Access Control
@item @dfn{MTPI} @tab Message Transfer Part Interface
@item @dfn{MTP} @tab Message Transfer Part 
@item @dfn{NLI} @tab Network Layer Interface
@item @dfn{NPDU} @tab Network Protocol Data Unit
@item @dfn{NPI} @tab Network Provider Interface
@item @dfn{NPI} @tab Numbering Plan Indicator
@item @dfn{NSAP} @tab Network Service Access Point
@item @dfn{NSDU} @tab Network Service Data Unit
@item @dfn{NSP} @tab Network Service Provider
@item @dfn{NS} @tab Network Service
@item @dfn{NSU} @tab Network Service User
@item @dfn{NUI} @tab Network User Information
@item @dfn{PAD} @tab Packet Assembler/Disassembler
@item @dfn{PDN} @tab Public Data Network
@item @dfn{PDU} @tab Protocol Data Unit
@item @dfn{PLP} @tab Packet Layer Protocol
@item @dfn{PPA} @tab Physical Point of Attachment
@item @dfn{PSDN} @tab Public Switched Data Network
@item @dfn{PSTN} @tab Public Switch Telephone Network
@item @dfn{PVC} @tab Permanent Virtual Circuit
@item @dfn{QOS} @tab Quality of Service
@item @dfn{RPOA} @tab Recognized Private Operating Agency
@item @dfn{SAP} @tab Service Access Point
@item @dfn{SCCPI} @tab Signalling Connection Control Part Interface
@item @dfn{SCCP} @tab Signalling Connection Control Part
@item @dfn{SDLI} @tab Signalling Data Link Interface
@item @dfn{SDL} @tab Signalling Data Link
@item @dfn{SDTI} @tab Signalling Data Terminal Interface
@item @dfn{SDT} @tab Signalling Data Terminal
@item @dfn{SDU} @tab Service Data Unit
@item @dfn{SLI} @tab Signalling Link Interface
@item @dfn{SLSAP} @tab Source Link Service Access Point
@item @dfn{SL} @tab Signalling Link
@item @dfn{SNPA} @tab Subnetwork Point of Attachment
@item @dfn{SSAP} @tab Source Service Access Point
@item @dfn{SVC} @tab Switched Virtual Circuit
@item @dfn{TCAP} @tab Transaction Capabilities Application Part
@item @dfn{TCI} @tab Transaction Component Interface
@item @dfn{TC} @tab Component Handling Sub-Layer
@item @dfn{TLI} @tab Transport Layer Interface
@item @dfn{TOA/NPI} @tab Type of Address/Numbering Plan Indicator
@item @dfn{TOA} @tab Type of Address
@item @dfn{TPI} @tab Transport Provider Interface
@item @dfn{TRI} @tab Transaction Interface
@item @dfn{TR} @tab Transaction Handling Sub-Layer
@item @dfn{VC} @tab Virtual Circuit
@item @dfn{WAN} @tab Wide Area Network
@item @dfn{X.121} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.121
@item @dfn{X.25} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.25
@item @dfn{X.28} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.28
@item @dfn{X.3} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.3
@item @dfn{X.75} @tab ITU-T Recommendation X.75
@item @dfn{XX25} @tab X.25 Programming Inteface using XTI
@item @dfn{XXX} @tab X.3, X.28, X.29
@end multitable

@node References
@unnumbered References

@multitable @columnfractions 0.2 0.8

@item [AIXlink/X.25] @anchor{AIXlink/X.25} @tab @cite{AIXlink/X.25 Version 2.1
for AIX: Guide and Reference}, No: SC23-2520-07, Eighth Edition, September 2006,
(Bolder, CO), International Business Machine Corp., IBM.
@uref{http://publibn.bould.ibm.com/,IBM Documentation Library}.

@item [ARTIC WAN] @anchor{ARTIC WAN} @tab @cite{ARTIC STREAMS Support WAN Driver
Interface Reference}, Release 1.7, June 2004, (Hillsboro, OR), RadiSys
Corporation, RadiSys. [Doc No: 007-01232-0003], @uref{http://www.radisys.com/,
RadiSys Support Documentation}.

@item [CDI] @anchor{CDI} @tab @cite{OpenSS7 CAE Specification: Communications
Device Interface (CDI) Specification}, Revision @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}, Draft
@value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, @value{PACKAGE_PDATE}, (Edmonton, Canada), B.
Bidulock, OpenSS7 Corporation.  Distributed with package @file{strxns-0.9.2}
and @file{openss7-0.9.2}.  @url{http://www.openss7.org/docs/cdi.pdf, OpenSS7
Documents}.

@item [DLPI] @anchor{DLPI} @tab @cite{Open Group CAE Specification: Data Link
Provider Interface (DLPI) Specification}, Revision 2.0.0, Draft 2, August 20,
1992, (Reprinted @value{PACKAGE_PDATE}) (Parsippany, New Jersey), UNIX
International, Inc., UNIX International Press.
@uref{http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/,The Open Group},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/docs/dlpi.pdf,The OpenSS7 Project}.

@item [IRIS SX.25] @anchor{IRIS SX.25} @tab @cite{IRIS SX.25 NLI Programmer's
Guide}, 1995, (Mountainview, CA), Silicon Graphics, Inc., SGI Technical
Publications. [No: 007-2268-002]. @uref{http://techpubs.sgi.com/,SGI Technical
Publications}.

@item [ISO3309] @anchor{ISO3309} @tab @b{ISO/IEC 3309:1988}, @cite{Information
Technology -- Data Communications -- High-Level Data Link Control procedures --
Frame Structure}, 1988, ISO/IEC, International Orgianization for
Standardization.  @uref{http://www.iso.org/,International Organization for
Standardization}.

@item [ISO7776] @anchor{ISO7776} @tab @b{ISO/IEC 7776:1995}, @cite{Information
technology --- Telecommunications information exchange between systems ---
High-level data link control procedures --- Description of the X.25
LAPB-compatible DTE data link procedures}, Second Edition, July 1, 1995,
International Organization for Standardization.
@uref{http://www.iso.org/,International Organization for Standardization}.

@item [ISO8208] @anchor{ISO8208} @tab @b{ISO/IEC 8208:2000}, @cite{Information
Technology --- Data Communications --- X.25 Packet Layer Protocol for Data
Terminal Equipment}, Fourth Edition, November 1, 2000, (Geneva), ISO/IEC,
International Organization for Standardization.
@uref{http://www.iso.org/,International Organization for Standardization}.

@item [ISO8802-2] @anchor{ISO8802-2} @tab @b{ANSI/IEEE Standard 802.2-1998
[ISO/IEC 8802-2:1998]}, @cite{IEEE Standard for Information Technology ---
Telecommunications and Information Exchange Between Systems --- Local and
Metropolitan Area Networks --- Specific Requirements --- Part 2: Logical Link
Control}, May 7, 1998, (New York), ANSI/IEEE, IEEE Computer Society. [ISBN
1-55937-959-6]. @uref{http://www.ieee.org/,Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers}.

@item [ISO8881] @anchor{ISO8881} @tab @b{ISO/IEC 8881:1989}, @cite{Information
Processing Systems --- Data Communications --- User of the X.25 Packet Level
Protocol in Local Area Networks}, 1989, ISO/IEC, International Organization for
Standardization. @uref{http://www.iso.org/,International Organization for
Standardization}.

@item [X.25] @tab @cite{ITU-T Recommendation X.25}.

@item [X.29] @tab @cite{ITU-T Recommendation X.29}.

@item [NPI] @anchor{NPI} @tab @cite{Open Group CAE Specification: Network
Provider Interface (NPI) Specification}, Revision 2.0.0, Draft 2, August 17,
1992, (Parisppany, New Jersey), UNIX International, Inc., UNIX International
Press.  @uref{http://www.openss7.org/docs/npi.pdf,The OpenSS7 Project}.

@item [Solstice X.25] @anchor{Solstice X.25} @tab @cite{Solstice X.25 9.2
Administration Guide}, October 1999, (Palo Alto, CA), Sun Microsystems, Inc.,
Sun. [Part No: 806-1234-10], @uref{http://docs-pdf.sun.com/, Solaris
Documentation}.

@item [TPI] @anchor{TPI} @tab @cite{Open Group CAE Specification: Transport
Provider Interface (TPI) Specification}, Revision 2.0.0, Draft 2, 1999,
(Berkshire, UK), Open Group, Open Group Publication.
@uref{http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/,The Open Group},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/docs/tpi.pdf,The OpenSS7 Project}.

@item [V.25 bis] @anchor{V.25 bis} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation V.25 bis (10/96)},
@cite{Synchronous and asynchronous automatic dialing procedures on switched
networks}, October 1996, (Geneva), ITU, ITU-T Telecommunication Standardization
Sector of ITU, (Previously ``CCITT Recommendation''),
@url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-V.25bis/en/ T-REC-V.25bis}.

@item [X.21] @anchor{X.21} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation X.21 (09/92)},
@cite{Interface between Data Terminal Equipment (DTE) and Data
Circuit-terminating Equiment (DCE) for synchronous operation on Public Data
Networks}, September 1992, (Geneva), ITU, ITU-T Telecommunication
Standardization Sector of ITU.  (Previously ``CCITT Recommendation''),
@url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.21/en/, T-REC-X.21}.

@item [X.21 bis] @anchor{X.21 bis} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation X.21 bis (03/88)},
@cite{Use on Public Data Networks of Data Terminal Equipment (DTE) which is
designed for interfacing to synchronous V-series modems}, March 1988, (Geneva),
ITU, ITU-T Telecommunication Standardization Sector of ITU. (Previously ``CCITT
Recommendation''), @url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.21bis/en/,
T-REC-X.21bis}.

@item [X.25] @anchor{X.25} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation X.25}.
@url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.25/en/, T-REC-X.25}.

@item [X.75] @anchor{X.75} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation X.75}.
@url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.75/en/, T-REC-X.75}.

@item [X.29] @anchor{X.29} @tab @b{ITU-T Recommendation X.29}.
@url{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.29/en/, T-REC-X.29}.

@item [XX25] @anchor{XX25} @tab @cite{X/Open CAE Specification: X.25 Programming
Interface using XTI (XX25)}, No. c411, November 1995, (Berkshire, UK), X/Open,
Open Group Publication. [ISBN: 1-85912-136-5].
@uref{http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/,The Open Group}.

@end multitable

@node Licenses
@unnumbered Licenses
@cindex licenses

All code presented in this manual is licensed under the @ref{GNU Affero General Public License}.
The text of this manual is licensed under the @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}, with no
invariant sections, no front-cover texts and no back-cover texts.  Please note, however, that it is
just plain wrong to modify statements of, or attribute statements to, the Author or @cite{OpenSS7
Corporation}.

@menu
* GNU Affero General Public License::
* GNU Free Documentation License::
@end menu

@include texi/agpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/fdl13.texi

@ifnotplaintext
@c skip indexes for plain text (regex search works better)
@c @iftex
@c @node Indices
@c @unnumbered Indices
@c @end iftex

@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for html and info
@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp
@c @end ifnottex

@c @iftex
@c @menu
@c * Concept Index::
@c * Protocol State Index::
@c * Primitive Index::
@c * Primitive Structure and Type Index::
@c * Primitive Structure Field Index::
@c * Primitive Values Index::
@c * Primitive Error Values Index::
@c * Input-Output Control Index::
@c * MIB Object Index::
@c * Manual Page Index::
@c @end menu
@c 
@c @node Concept Index
@c @section Concept Index
@c @printindex cp
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Protocol State Index
@c @section Protocol State Index
@c @printindex st
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Index
@c @section Primitive Index
@c @printindex pr
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Structure and Type Index
@c @section Primitive Structure and Type Index
@c @printindex tp
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Structure Field Index
@c @section Primitive Structure Field Index
@c @printindex vr
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Values Index
@c @section Primitive Values Index
@c @printindex pv
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Primitive Error Values Index
@c @section Primitive Error Values Index
@c @printindex pe
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Input-Output Control Index
@c @section Input-Output Control Index
@c @printindex ct
@c 
@c @page
@c @node MIB Object Index
@c @section MIB Object Index
@c @printindex mo
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Manual Page Index
@c @section Manual Page Index
@c @printindex mp
@c @end iftex
@end ifnotplaintext

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye
