'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man4/aal1.4.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AAL1 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Drivers and Modules"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B aal1
\- ATM Adaption Layer 1 Module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/atm.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/aal1.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/atm_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " aa_stream " = open(" aa_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" aa_device ", " \fRI_PUSH\fP ", " \fR\*(lqaal1\*(rq\fP );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B AAL1
is an implementation of the ATM Adaption Layer 1 (AAL1) procedures as
specified in
.BR "ITU-T I.363.1" ,
.[
i.363.1
.]
and a number of ATM Forum documents.
.[
af89
.]
.[
af91
.]
.B AAL1
is intended to be used with the channel,
.BR ch (4),
and multiplex,
.BR mx (4),
multiplexing drivers.
.PP
.B AAL1
is implemented as a pushable
.IR STREAMS (4)
module.
The
.B AAL1
module can be pushed over a stream conforming to the ATM Interface (AAL0) as
described in
.BR aal0 (7).
The
.B AAL1
module provides ATM Adaption Layer 1 access to the octets string from the
.BR atm (4)
stream below it, by performing ATM functions on the raw octet stream.  The
upper interface provided by the
.B AAL1
module is the Channel Interface (CHI) as described in
.BR chi (7),
and the Multiplex Interface (MXI) as described in
.BR mxi (7).
.PP
.B AAL1
streams can be linked under
.BR mx (4)
drivers using the
.IR I_LINK " and " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide a complete multiplex that can be linked under an
.BR mg (4)
driver using the
.IR I_LINK " and " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide multiplex services to the upper protocol.  This is normally
performed, as required, by the ATM Configuration Daemon,
.BR atmconfd (8).
.PP
.B AAL1
is also implemented as an independent module so that it can be used with
packetized transports such as Internet Protocol as specified in
.BR "ITU-T Y.1452" ,
.[
y1452
.]
.BR "ITU-T Y.1453"
.[
y1453
.]
and
.BR "ITU-T Y.1454" .
.[
y1454
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B AAL1
has been implemented as a pushable module to ease the development of channel
and multiplex drivers for various cards and ATM transports.  All that is
required is for the card to provide an ATM Adaption Layer 0 (AAL0),
.BR atm (4),
interface and push the
.BR aal1 (4)
module to provide a complete and compliant channel or multiplex link.
.PP
.B AAL1
is implemented internally as an ATM SAR using host-based processing.  While
this is fairly efficient, devices that are capable of performing this
function in hardware should provide the
channel interface,
.BR chi (7),
or multiplex interface,
.BR mxi (7),
directly.  An example of a device that does not include ATM SAR is the
OpenSS7 OC-48 SONET/SDH card design.  An example of one that does, is the
.BR pca200e (4)
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B AAL1
modules are not normally pushed or accessed directly by user-level programs.
The
.B AAL1
module is used directly by some test and monitoring programs.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B AAL1 module reponds to Local Management Interface (LMI)
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
input-output controls as interpreted for Channel and Multiplex operation as
described in
.BR ch_ioctl (4)
and
.BR mx_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.RB < sys/chi.h >,
.RB < sys/chi_ioctl.h >,
.RB < sys/mxi.h >,
.RB < sys/mxi_ioctl.h >,
.RB < sys/atm.h >,
.RB < sys/atm_ioctl.h >.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.RI streams- aal1 .o
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR atm (4),
.BR ch (4),
.BR chi (7),
.BR mx (4),
.BR mxi (7).
.XX
.[
chi revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.[
mxi revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B AAL1
module conforms to the ATM specifications,
.BR "ITU-T I.363.1" .
.[
i.363.1
.]
The
.B AAL1
module appears in
.B @PACKAGE@
release
@VERSION@.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
