'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: bicc.4.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:34:46 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:34:46 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: bicc.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:34:46  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH BICC 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B bicc
\- Bearer Independent Call Control (BICC) Device Driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/cci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bicci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bicci_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " bicc_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B BICC
is an implementation of Signalling System No. 7
.RB ( SS7 (4))
Bearer Independent Call Control (BICC) defined in ITU-T Recommendation Q.BICC
and ANSI T1.BICC.
.B BICC
provides call control of telephone calls over the ISDN where the bearer
is non-traditional.
.B BICC
can use the services of the Message Transfer Part
.RB "(see " mtp (4))
to transfer packets using, for example, Annex C/T1.BICC.4-2000 operation.
.B BICC
can also use the services of SSCOP or SSCOPMCE
.RB "(see sccop (4))
to transfer packets using, for example, Annex D/T1.BICC.4-2000 operation.
.PP
.B BICC
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR mtp "(4), " m3ua "(4), " tali "(4) or " sscop (4)
streams are linked under the
.B BICC
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide network services to
.BR BICC .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR bicc_ioctl (4)
IO controls.  This function is normally performed by the SS7 configuration
daemon,
.BR ss7confd (8).
See also,
.BR bicc (8).
.PP
.B BICC
provides the following stream types.  To select one of the stream types, the
.I device
argument to the
.BR open (2)
call can be one of the following:
.TP
.I /dev/bicc
This device provides the
.B BICC
protocol services using the CC-primitives of the Call Control Interface (CCI)
described in
.BR cci (7),
as integrated for use with
.B BICC
as described in
.BR cci_bicc (7).
This interface is suitable both for use with other SS7 modules and drivers,
as well as with the
.BR cframe (3)
library using the
.B OpenSwitch
call framework.
.PP
Unlike other SS7 protocol modules and drivers tat the transport level,
.B BICC
does not provide a
.BR sockets (3)
interface.  THis is because the special needs of call control are divorced
from the sockets paradigm.
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of Local Management Interface IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.I I_STR
.BR streamio (7)
system calls on the
.I bicc_stream
file descriptor.  The common Local Management Interface IO commands are
described in
.BR lmi_ioctl (4).
The management structure and constant definitions for
.BR BICC
are described in
.BR bicc_ioctl (4).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR bicc (8),
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR cci (7),
.BR cci_bicc (7),
.BR cframe (3),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
.BR bicc_ioctl (4).
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bicci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bicci_ioctl.h> .
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/bicc .
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B BICC
interface is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
.BR SS7 (4)
stack.  This is Version 2 of the interface.
.PP
CCI interfaces are consistent with CCI Revsion 0.8.2.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q1902
.]
.[
T1.BICC
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
