'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man4/bua.4.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH BUA 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B bua
\- SS7 BICC User Adaptation Layer (BUA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/cci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bicci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bicci_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bua_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " bicc_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B BUA
is an implementation of the SS7 BICC User Adaptation Layer (BUA) defined in
.BR draft-bidulock-sigrran-bua-00.txt .
.B BUA
provides a back haul of the services of
.BR bicc (4)
over an IP network using Stream Control Transmission Protocol,
.BR sctp (4),
as defined in
.BR RFC 2960\c
.
.[
rfc2960
.]
In addition it provide a building block of redundant and distributed SS7
systems.  (See
.IR "\*(lqNOTICES\*(rq" ,
below).
.PP
.B BUA
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR bicc (4)
or
.BR sctp (4)
streams are linked under the
.B BUA
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide transport or direct
.B BICC
services to
.BR BUA .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR bua_ioctl (4).
This procedure is normally performed by the SS7 Configuration Daemon,
.BR ss7confd (8).
.PP
.B BUA
provides the following sttream types that are directly compatible with stream
types provided by
.BR bicc (4).
To select one of these stream types,
.I device
can be selected from the following:
.TP
.I /dev/bua
This device provides
.B BICC
protocol service interface using the Call Control Interface (CCI)
.[
cci
.]
described in
.BR cci (7),
as integrated for use with
.BR bicc (4),
as described in
.BR cci_bicc (7).
This interface is suitable both for use with other SS7 modules and drivers, as
well as with the
.BR cframe (3)
library using the
.B OpenSwitch
call framework.
.PP
Unlike other SS7 protocol modules and drivers at the transport level,
.B BUA
does not provide a
.BR sockets (3)
interface.  This is because the special needs of call control are divorced
from the sockets paradigm.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B BUA
can be configured on a system as a drop in transparent replacement for
.BR bicc (4).
IN such a configuration, users opening streams or sockets defined in
.BR bicc (4)
will be opening
.B bua
streams and sockets, but will be unaware of the difference.  In
.BR OpenSS7 ,
.B bua
is used as the primary mechanism of redundancy and distribution are the
.B BICC
level, and, when properly configured
.RB "(see " ss7confd (8)),
.B bua
functions transparently to the BICC-User.
.PP
Also, opening and binding a
.B bua
stream or socket may result in the opening and binding of a
.BR bicc (4)
stream on the local or remote host in direct support of the local BICC-User.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of Local Management Interface IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2s)
and
.I I_STR
.BR streamio (7)
system calls on the
.B bua_stream
file descriptor.  The common Local Management Interface IO commands are
described in
.BR lmi_ioctl (4).
The management structure and constant definitions for
.B BUA
are described in
.BR bua_ioctl (4).
.B BUA
also supports the
.B BICC
IO commands, management structures and contants defined in
.BR bicc_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/lmi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/cci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bicci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bicci_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bua_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR lmi (7),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
.BR bua_ioctl (4),
.BR bicc_ioctl (4),
.BR cci (7),
.BR cci_bicc (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B BUA
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
.BR SIGTRAN (4)
stack.
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
bua
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
