'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: capi_ioctl.4.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:09 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:09 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: capi_ioctl.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:09  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH CAPI-IOCTL 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B capi_ioctl
\- COMMON-ISDN-API (CAPI) \- IO Controls
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/isdni_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/capi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "struct strioctl *" arg ;
.HP
.BI "int " capi_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/capi\fI ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" capi_stream ", " \fRI_STR\fI ", " arg );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B CAPI-IOCTL
supports IO controls based on the Local Management Interface IO controls,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
as used for ISDN as described in
.BR isdn_ioctl (4).
In addition.
.B CAPI-IOCTL
defines the additional managed objects, structures and constants necessary to
use the
.BR capi (4)
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.TP
.B CAPI_REGISTER
.RS
.PP
.B CAPI_REGISTER
takes as an argument a pointer to a
.B capi_register_parms
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct capi_register_params {
    uint32_t maxLogicalConnection;  /* maximum number of logical connections */
    uint32_t maxBDataBlocks;        /* maximum number of received data blocks */
    uint32_t maxBDataLength;        /* maximum size of application data block */
} capi_register_params_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B capi_resister_parms
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I maxLogicalConnection
.TP
.I maxBDataBlocks
.TP
.I maxBDataLength
.RE
.TP
.B CAPI_GET_MANUFACTURER
.TP
.B CAPI_GET_VERSION
.RS
.PP
.B CAPI_GET_VERSION
takes as an argument a pointer to a
.B capi_version
structure, formatted as follows:
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct capi_version {
	uint32_t major_version;
	uint32_t minor_version;
	uint32_t vendor_major_version;
	uint32_t vendor_minor_version;
} capi_version_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B capi_version
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I major_version
.TP
.I minor_version
.TP
.I vendor_major_version
.TP
.I vendor_minor_version
.RE
.TP
.B CAPI_GET_SERIAL_NUMBER
.TP
.B CAPI_GET_PROFILE
.RS
.PP
.B CAPI_GET_PROFILE
takes as an argument a pointer to a
.B capi_profile_parms
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef union capi_profile_params {
    struct {
        uint32_t controller_number;
    } request;
    struct {
        uint16_t num_controllers;
        uint16_t num_b_channels;
        uint32_t global_operations;
        uint32_t b1_protocol_support;
        uint32_t b2_protocol_support;
        uint32_t b3_protocol_support;
        uint8_t reserved[24];
        uint8_t vendor_specific[20];
    } result;
    capi_profile_t result;
} capi_profile_params_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B capi_profile_parms
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I request.number
.TP
.I result.num_controllers
.TP
.I result.num_b_channels
.TP
.I result.global_operations
.TP
.I result.b1_protocol_support
.TP
.I result.b2_protocol_support
.TP
.I result.b3_protocol_support
.TP
.I result.reserved
.TP
.I result.vendor_specific
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.PP
.B THIS MANPAGE IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND NEEDS TO BE COMPLETED.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B THIS MANPAGE IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND NEEDS TO BE COMPLETED.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/isdni_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/capi_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/capi .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR capi (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This is Version 2 of the CAPI Interface.
.\"
.XX
.[
capi2p1
.]
.[
capi2p2
.]
.[
capi2p3
.]
.[
capi2p4
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
