'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ch-mux.4.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:34:47 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:34:47 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ch-mux.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:34:47  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH CH-MUX 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ch-mux, ch_mux
\- Channel (CH) Media Multiplexing Driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/chi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/chi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/ch_mux.h
.HP
.BI "int " ch_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B CH-MUX
is an implementation of a local channel multiplex control for devices
conforming to the
.BR chi (7)
interface.
.B CH-MUX
provides for the control of the matrix and underlying interfaces as
communications facilities.  It provides pseudo-digital cross-connect as
well as multiplex and invert multiplex switching services to its user
and is effectively a virtual DCCS and channel bank.
.PP
.B CH-MUX
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing pseudo-device driver.
.B CH
Streams can be linked under the multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK (7)
or
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control commands of
.BR streamio (7).
.B CH
Streams can be configured using
.BR chi_ioctl (4)
input-output controls.
.\"
.SS Upper Multiplex Service Interface
.PP
.\"
.SS Lower Multiplex Service Interface
.PP
The CH-MUX driver supports driver Streams linked under the multiplexing
driver that provide channelized access to device or pseudo-device
drivers supporting the CH Interface (CHI),
.[
chi @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.BR chi (7),
raw channel interface.  Each of these Streams linked beneath the CH
multiplexing driver represents communications channels to and from a
device or pseudo-device driver.
.PP
Lower multiplex Streams are always CH Style 1 or attached CH Style 2
Streams.  That is, CH Style 2 Streams must be attached to a PPA before
being linked beneath the CH-MUX multiplexing driver.
.\"
.SS Configuration
.PP
The CH-MUX driver is configured by opening CH Streams on a real or
pseudo-device driver that provides the CH interface and then linking
these CH Streams beneath the CH-MUX multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK (7)
or
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control commands provided by
.BR streamio (7).
Once, linked, the CH Streams are not immediately available to the CH-MUX
driver: they frist must be configured using CH input-output control
management commands.  A management control command must be used to
assign a Style 1 minor device number to the lower Stream as well as a
global PPA and CLEI.  They Style 1 minor device number is used as a
minor device number when opening the CH-MUX driver using a non-clone
minor device to obtain a Style 1 CH Stream.  The global PPA or CLEI can
be used by a Style 1 clone CH-MUX driver device Stream to attach to the
associated PPA.
.PP
Lower CH Stream that are linked beneath the multiplexing driver using
the
.IR I_LINK (7)
input-output control can only be managed and connected to by control
Streams that performed the
.IR I_LINK (7)
operation.  Lower CH Streams that are linked beneath the multiplexing
driver using the
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control can be managed only by the single CH-MUX management
Stream.  Note that, to reduce complexity in the initial driver,
.IR I_LINK (7)
operations are not yet supported.
.PP
Normally the CH-MUX driver is not configured by user-supplied management
programs.  Instead, the
.BR chMIB (8)
SNMP management agent is responsible for performing, maintaining and
managing this configuration.  When the
.BR chMIB (8)
SNMP management agent starts up, it uses persistent configuration
information to open device drivers providing CH Streams and links them
beneath the CH-MUX multiplexing driver and performs minor device number
and global PPA and CLEI assignment.  The
.BR chMIB (8)
SNMP management agent is also for reporting statistics, operational
measurements, events and alarms in addition to maintaining the
configuration.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The
.B CH-MUX
driver provides one interface at the lower multiplex: the
.BR chi (7)
interface for syncrhonous communications channels.
.PP
The
.B CH-MUX
driver provides two interfaces at the upper multiplex: the
.BR chi (7)
interface for single- and multi-rate channels, and a management control
interface for controlling connections made across the multiplexing
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
Circuit addresses are 32-bit identifiers that are assigned to circuits
or circuit groups.  Each circuit (upper or lower) has a unique
identifier within the
.BR CH-MUX
driver.  One of the identifiers for a circuit within a circuit group can
be used to identify the circuit group as a whole.  Flags are used in
management primitives to indicate whether a particular identifier refers
to a circuit or a circuit group.
.PP
Assignment of circuit identifiers, asside from requirements for
uniqueness, are arbitrary.  For operation within ISUP, a good choice
would be to assign some bit range of the identifier to be identical to
the ISUP circuit identification code for the circuit and the remainder
to uniquely identify one like ISUP CIC from another.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management input-output controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.IR I_STR (7)
input-output control commands to the
.BR sreamio (7)
system calls on the
.I ch_stream
file descriptor.  These management controls are documented in
.BR ch_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Drivers providing CH Streams to this CH-MUX driver should also support
pseudo-digital or digital cross-connect directly within the driver.
Only when pseudo-digital cross-connect is needed between drivers should
this matrix be used.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.RB < ss7/chi.h >,
.RB < ss7/chi_ioctl.h >,
.RB < ss7/ch_ioctl.h >.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/streams/ch-mux/ch
The clone device for opening upper CH Style 2 Streams.
.TP
.B /dev/streams/clone/ch-mux
The clone device for opening upper CH Style 2 Streams.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B CH-MUX
driver has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mxi (7),
.BR chi (7),
.BR mx-mux (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSION
.PP
The
.B CH-MUX
interface is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
channel stack.  This is Version 1 of the interface.
.PP
CHI interfaces are consistent with CHI Revision 0.9.2,
.[
chi @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.BR chi (7).
.PP
The
.B CH-MUX
driver does not appear until
.B strchan
release 0.9.2, but was previously part of commercial
.B strss7
releases.
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
