'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man4/clnstpi.4.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CLNSTPI 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B clnstpi
\- CLNS NPI to TPI Conversion Module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int " np_stream " = open(" /dev/clns ", " oflag );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" np_stream ", " I_PUSH ", " \*(lqclnstpi\*(rq );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B clnstpi
is a
.IR STREAMS (4)
module that provides conversion between the OSI CLNS NPI interface and the TPI interface for use by
the XTI/TLI library to provide for applications that run directly over CLNP.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
At the lower service interface, the
.B clnstpi
module supports the OSI NPI
.[
npi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
service primitive interface described in
.BR npi (7).
.PP
At the upper service interface, the
.B clnstpi
module supports a modified OSI TPI
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
service primitive interface described in
.BR tpi (7),
with the following considerations:
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
TSAP addresses for use with
.B clnstpi
are described in
.BR xti_osi (3).
The TSAP address consists of an NSAP with no TSEL which is supplied to and returned from
.BR t_bind (3),
.BR t_accept (3),
and
.BR t_connect (3)
XTI/TLI library calls and
.BR T_BIND_REQ (7),
.BR T_CONN_IND (7),
.BR T_CONN_REQ (7)
service primitives.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
If it were not for options and quality of service parameter differences between TPI and NPI, it
would be possible to write a completely protocol and service interface independent implementation of
an NPI to TPI conversion module.  That is not, however, possible as option and quality of service
handling differences between NPI and TPI preclude a completely generic approach.
.PP
Most TPI QOS parameters map directly onto NPI QOS parameters: for example,
TPI protection levels map directly onto NPI protection levels;
TPI priorities map directly onto NPI priorities;
TPI throughput values map directly onto NPI throughput values;
TPI transit delay values map directoy onto TPI transit delay values.
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lblblb
lblilb.
TPI Option:NPI QoS Parameter:N-Primitive
_
T_TCO_THROUGHPUT:N_qos_co_opt_sel_t.src_throughput:N_OPTMGMT_REQ
:N_qos_co_opt_sel_t.dst_throughput:N_OPTMGMT_REQ
:N_qos_co_sel_t.src_throughput_sel:N_CONN_REQ, N_CONN_RES
:N_qos_co_sel_t.dest_throughput_sel:N_CONN_REQ, N_CONN_RES
T_TCO_TRANSDEL:N_qos_co_opt_sel_t.transit_delay:N_OPTMGMT_REQ
:N_qos_co_sel_t.transit_delay_sel:N_CONN_REQ, N_CONN_RES
T_TCO_TRANSFAILPROB:N_qos_co_opt_sel_t.xfer_fail_prob:N_OPTMGMT_REQ
T_TCO_ESTFAILPROB:N_qos_co_opt_sel_t.nc_estab_fail_prob:N_OPTMGMT_REQ
T_TCO_RELFAILPROB:N_qos_co_opt_sel_t.nc_rel_fail_prob:N_OPTMGMT_REQ
T_TCO_ESTDELAY:N_qos_co_opt_sel_t.nc_estab_delay:N_OPTMGMT_REQ
T_TCO_RELDELAY:N_qos_co_opt_sel_t.nc_rel_delay:N_OPTMGMT_REQ
T_TCO_CONNRESIL:N_qos_co_opt_sel_t.nc_resilience:N_OPTMGMT_REQ
T_TCO_PROTECTION:N_qos_co_opt_sel_t.protection_sel:N_OPTMGMT_REQ
T_TCO_PRIORITY:N_qos_co_opt_sel_t.priority_sel:N_OPTMGMT_REQ
T_TCO_EXPD:EX_DATA_OPT
T_TCO_NETEXP:EX_DATA_OPT
T_TCO_NETRECPTCF:REC_CONF_OPT
_
T_TCL_TRANSDEL:N_qos_cl_sel_t.transit_delay_max:N_UNITDATA_REQ
T_TCL_RESERRORRATE:N_qos_cl_sel_t.residual_error_rate:N_UNITDATA_REQ
T_TCL_PROTECTION:N_qos_cl_sel_t.protection_sel:N_UNITDATA_REQ
T_TCL_PRIORITY:N_qos_cl_sel_t.priority_sel:N_UNITDATA_REQ
T_TCL_CHECKSUM:\-
_
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
T-Primitives from the upper TPI service interface are mapped against N-Primitives on the lower
service interface as follows:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lbclb.
T-Primitive::N-Primitive
_
T_BIND_REQ\fR(7):->:N_BIND_REQ\fR(7)
T_BIND_ACK\fR(7):<-:N_BIND_ACK\fR(7)
T_INFO_REQ\fR(7):->:N_INFO_REQ\fR(7)
T_INFO_ACK\fR(7):<-:N_INFO_ACK\fR(7)
T_ADDR_REQ\fR(7):->:\-
T_ADDR_ACK\fR(7):<-:\-
T_CAPABILITY_REQ\fR(7):->:\-
T_CAPABILITY_REQ\fR(7):<-:\-
T_UNITDATA_REQ\fR(7):->:N_UNITDATA_REQ\fR(7)
T_UNITDATA_IND\fR(7):<-:N_UNITDATA_IND\fR(7)
T_CONN_REQ\fR(7):->:N_CONN_REQ\fR(7)
T_CONN_IND\fR(7):<-:N_CONN_IND\fR(7)
T_CONN_RES\fR(7):->:N_CONN_RES\fR(7)
T_CONN_CON\fR(7):<-:N_CONN_CON\fR(7)
T_DATA_REQ\fR(7):->:N_DATA_REQ\fR(7)
T_DATA_IND\fR(7):<-:N_DATA_IND\fR(7)
T_EXDATA_REQ\fR(7):->:N_EXDATA_REQ\fR(7)
T_EXDATA_IND\fR(7):<-:N_EXDATA_IND\fR(7)
T_OPTDATA_REQ\fR(7):->:N_OPTMGMT_REQ\fR(7)\fP, N_DATA_REQ\fR(7)
T_OPTDATA_IND\fR(7):<-:N_DATA_IND\fR(7)\fP, N_EXDATA_IND\fR(7)
T_DISCON_REQ\fR(7):->:N_DISCON_REQ\fR(7)
T_DISCON_IND\fR(7):<-:N_DISCON_IND\fR(7)
T_ORDREL_REQ\fR(7):->:\-
T_ORDREL_IND\fR(7):<-:\-
T_UNBIND_REQ\fR(7):->:N_UNBIND_REQ\fR(7)
T_OK_ACK\fR(7):<-:N_OK_ACK\fR(7)
T_ERROR_ACK\fR(7):<-:N_ERROR_ACK\fR(7)
_
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.B clnstpi
does not provide any module-specific input-output controls: all input-output controls are passed
toward the driver beneath the module.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.TP
.B clnstpi
A
.IR STREAMS (4)
module named
.RB \*(lq clnstpi \*(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/clns
The native OSI NPI interface to CLNS.
.TP
.B /dev/clnp
When the
.B /dev/clns
device is conbined with an autopush specification pushes the
.B clnsnpi
module, it results in the
.BR /dev/clnp
device.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR clns (4),
.BR npi (7).
.BR tpi (7),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_osi (3),
.BR ISO (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
Because the
.B clnstpi
module is not yet implemented, it has no bugs.  Or, all of the bugs were in the design.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH COMPATIBILITY
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
NPI,
.[
npi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
TPI,
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns98
.]
SunLink.
.[
sunlink-tli
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B clnstpi
module first appears in the
Solaris\(rg SunLink product.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
