'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DLC_QUERY_LS.4.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:08 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:08 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DLC_QUERY_LS.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:08  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DLC_QUERY_LS 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B DLC_QUERY_LS
\- add a functional address
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Generic Data Link Control (GLDC),
.IR AIX \(rg-specific.
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dlpi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" dlpi_stream ", " cmd ", " arg );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B DLC_QUERY_LS
input-output control queries statistics of a particular link station (LS).
.PP
Both service access point (SAP) and link station (LS) statistics can be queried
by a GLDC user.  Link station (LS) statistics consist of the current station
states and various reliability, availability, and servicability counters that
monitor the activity of the station fomr the time it is started.
.PP
The argument to the
.B DLC_ADDR_FUNC_ADDR
input-output control is a pointer to a
.B dlc_qls_arg
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct dlc_ls_counters {
    uint32_t test_cmds_sent;
    uint32_t test_cmds_fail;
    uint32_t test_cmds_rec;
    uint32_t data_pkt_sent;
    uint32_t data_pkt_resent;
    uint32_t max_cont_resent;
    uint32_t data_pkt_rec;
    uint32_t inv_pkt_rec;
    uint32_t adp_rec_err;
    uint32_t adp_send_err;
    uint32_t rec_inact_to;
    uint32_t cmd_polls_sent;
    uint32_t cmd_repolls_sent;
    uint32_t cmd_cont_repolls;
};

#define DLC_MAX_DIAG  16

struct dlc_qls_arg {
    uint32_t gdlc_sap_corr;
    uint32_t gdlc_ls_corr;
    uint32_t user_sap_corr;
    uint32_t user_ls_corr;
    uint8_t ls_diag[DLC_MAX_DIAG];
    uint32_t ls_state;
    uint32_t ls_sub_state;
    struct dlc_ls_counters counters;
    uint32_t protodd_len;
    /* followed by protocol-specific area */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B dlc_qls_arg
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I gdlc_sap_corr
Specifies the generic data link control (GDLC) service access point (SAP)
correlator of the target LS.
.TP
.I gdlc_ls_corr
Specifies the generic data link Control (GDLC) link station (LS) to be queried.
.TP
.I user_sap_corr
Indicates the user SAP correlator returned for routing purposes.
.TP
.I user_ls_corr
Indicates the user LS correlator, that is the user LS identifier returned for
routing purposes.
.TP
.I ls_diag
Indicates the link station (LS) diagnostic tag.  Indicates the ASCII character
string tag passed to GDLC at the
.BR DLC_START_LS (4)
input-output control operation to identify the station being queried.  For
example, SNA services puts the attachment profile name in this field.
.TP
.I ls_state
Indicates the current state of the LS.  This is one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B DLC_OPENING
Indicates the SAP or link station is in the process of opening.
.TP
.B DLC_OPENED
Indicates the SAP or link station has been opened.
.TP
.B DLC_CLOSING
Indicates the SAP or link station is in the process of closing.
.TP
.B DLC_INACTIVE
Indicates the link station is currently inactive.
.RE
.TP
.I ls_sub_state
Indicates the current substate of this LS.  Several indicators may be active
concurrently.
.RS
.TP
.B DLC_CALLING
Indicates the link station is calling.
.TP
.B DLC_LISTENING
Indicates the link station is listening.
.TP
.B DLC_CONTACTED
Indicates the link station is contacted into sequenced data mode.
.TP
.B DLC_LOCAL_BUSY
Indicates the local link station is currently busy.
.TP
.B DLC_REMOTE_BUSY
Indicates the remote link station is currently busy.
.RE
.TP
.I dlc_ls_counters 
Indictates the link station reliablity, availability, servicability counters.
These 14 reliability, availability, servicability counters are shown as an
example only.  Each GDLC device manager provides as many of these counters as
necessary to diagnose specific network problems for its protocol type.
.RS
.TP
.B test_cmds_sent
Indicates the number of test command sent.
.TP
.B test_cmds_fail
Indicates the number of test commands failed.
.TP
.B test_cmds_rec
Indicates the number of test commands received.
.TP
.B data_pkt_sent
Indicates the number of sequenced data packets sent.
.TP
.B data_pkt_resent
Indicates the number of sequenced data packets resent.
.TP
.B max_cont_resent
Indicates the maximum number of contiguous resendings.
.TP
.B data_pkt_rec
Indicates the number of data packets received.
.TP
.B inv_pkt_rec
Indicates the number of invalid packets received.
.TP
.B adp_rec_err
Indicates the number of data-detected receive errors.
.TP
.B adp_send_err
Indicates the number of data-detected transmit errors.
.TP
.B rec_inact_to
Indicates the number of received inactivity timeouts.
.TP
.B cmd_polls_sent
Indicates the number of command polls sent.
.TP
.B cmd_repolls_sent
Indicates the number of comand repolls sent.
.TP
.B cmd_cont_repolls
Indicates the maximum number of continuous repolls sent.
.RE
.TP
.I protodd_len
Indicates the length of protocol-dependent data.  This field contains the byte
length of the following area.
.PP
The protocol-dependent data contains any additional statistics that a
particular GDLC device manager might provide.  See the individual GDLC
specifications for information on the specific fields returned.  This optional
data area must directly follow (or append to) the end of the
.B dlc_qls_arg
structure.
.PP
The following protocol-specific considerations apply:
.TP
.B DLC FDDI
There is no protocol-specific data area supported by DLC FDDI for this
input-output control operation.
.TP
.B DLC TOKEN
There is no protocol-specific data area supported by DLC TOKEN for this
input-output control operation.
.TP
.B DLC 8023
There is no protocol-specific data area supported by DLC 8023 for this
input-output control operation.
.TP
.B DLC ETHER
There is no protocol-specific data area supported by DLC ETHER for this
input-output control operation.
.TP
.B DLC SDLC
There is no protocol-specific data area supported by DLC SDLC for this
input-output control operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success, the input-output control returns zero (0).  Upon failure, the
input-output control returnes minus one (-1) and sets
.BR errno (3)
to an appropriate error code.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When the input-output control fails, it returns minus one (-1) and set the
.BR errno (3)
to an appropriate error code.  In addition to the reasons given in
.BR ioctl (2s),
this input-output control can fail because of the following:
.TP \w'[\fBEDEADLK\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
A parameter of the input-output control is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ EFAULT ]
A memory extent exceeds the callers valid address space.
.TP
.RB [ EPROTO ]
A rule of the interface protocol was violated.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
The operation could not be immediately processed.
.TP
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
There were insufficient message buffers to complete the operation.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
There were insufficient STREAMS resources to complete the operation.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
There was insufficient memory to complete the operation.
.TP
.RB [ EDEADLK ]
A deadlock condition was detected and avoided.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Note that
.IR AIX \(rg
terminology for GDLC conflict with that of LLC
.[
iso/iec 8802-2 : 1998
.]
and LAPB.
.[
iso7776
.]
Under IEEE terminology, a link station is associated with the MAC entity or a
point-to-point data link endpoint, and one or more service access points (SAP)
are associated with the one link station.  LLC Type 2 supporting link stations
can have associated with them zero or more connections that represent a
connection between a local MAC address and a remote MAC address, a local SAP
and a remote SAP.  LAPB link stations can have associated with them 1
connection that represents a connection between the local and remote stations.
LAPD
.[
q921
.]
link stations can have associated with them one or more connections that
represent a connection associated with a local and remote SAP (TEI).
LAPF
.[
q922
.]
link stations can have associated with them one or more connections that
represent a connection associated with a local and remote SAP (DLCI).
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg
terminology in the GDLC documentation refers to this latter connection,
confusingly, as a link station (LS).
The
.IR AIX \(rg
GDLC service access point (SAP) is really a Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) and
DLSAP combination under the DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
and the
.IR AIX \(rg
GDLC link station (LS) is really a connection identifier.
It may be helpful to think of a GDLC link station (LS) as an identifier of a
local and remote link station combination for a given DLSAP.
.PP
.B DLC_QUERY_LS
is an
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
input-output control.
It might be necessary to define C preprocessor symbol
.B _AIX_SOURCE
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >,
.RB < sys/dlpi_ext.h >,
or
.RB < sys/dlpi_ioctl.h >
header files to expose the definitions, structures and declarations associated
with the input-output control.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
For use with
.IR AIX \(rg
compatible devices.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR DLC_QUERY_SAP (4),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B DLC_QUERY_LS
input-output control is compatible with
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
and implementations based on
.IR AIX \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B DLC_QUERY_LS
is an
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
input-output control that is not part of the DLPI standard.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
It should not be used by portable DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
.B DLC_QUERY_LS
is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for source compatibility with DLS Providers and Users written for use with
.IR AIX \(rg,
and for porting DLS Providers and Users from
.IR AIX \(rg
to
.IR Linux \(rg.
Binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced
may be removed from a future release.
.PP
See
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatiblity information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The GDLC input-output controls are specific to
.IR AIX \(rg.
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
