'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH H248 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B h248
\- MEGACO/H.248 Media Gateway Control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/mgi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mgi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/h248_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " h248_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/h248\fI ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B H248
is an implementation of the
.I Megaco Protocol Version 1.0
as described in
.B "RFC 3015"
and
.B ITU-T Reocmmendation H.248.1.
.PP
.B H248
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.PP
.BR mg (4)
stream, or streams conforming to the Media Gateway Interface (MGI),
.BR mgi (7),
can be
.IR I_LINK ed
or
.IR I_PLINK ed
under the
.IR h248_stream ,
to provide MG services to the multiplexing driver.
.BR mgi (7)
streams linked in this fashion must first be configured for use using the
.BR h248_ioctl (4)
IO controls.  This function is normally performed by the MG Configuration
Daemon,
.RB mgconfd (8).
.PP
Transport streams conforming to the Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.BR tpi (7),
such as
.BR tcp (4)
or
.BR sctp (4),
can also be
.IR I_LINK ed
or
.IR I_PLINK ed
under the
.IR h248_stream ,
to provide transport services for communicating with remote MG or MGC hosts.
.BR tpi (7)
streams linked in this fashion must first be configured for use using the
.BR h248_ioctl (4)
IO controls.  This function is normally performed by the MG Configuration
Daemon,
.RB mgconfd (8).
.PP
.B H248
provides the following devices:
.TP
.I /dev/h248
This device provide a Media Gateway Interface (MGI) as described in
.BR mgi (7),
integrated for
.B H.248
operation as described in
.BR mgi_h248 (7).
This device is suitable for use with the
.BR mgc (4)
driver, or other MG modules and drivers, or for direct use by user-level
programs such as the
.B OpenSwitch
call framework library,
.BR cframe (3).
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.B H248
provides the common set of Local Managemenet IO controls accessible using
.BR ioctl (2)
or
.I I_STR
command to the
.BR streamio (7)
system calls, as described in
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
interpreted for use by
.B H248
as described in
.BR h248_ioctl (4).
These IO controls, and the IO controls described for MGI devices in
.BR mgi_ioctl (4),
are available on the
.I h248_stream
file descriptor.
.\".SH NOTICES
.PP
.\".SH BUGS
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/mgi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mgi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mgi_h247.h> ,
.BR <ss7/h248_ioctl.h> .
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/h248 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MG (4),
.BR mgc (4),
.BR mgi (7),
.BR mgi_ioctl (4),
.BR h248_ioctl (4),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR tcp (4),
.BR sctp (4),
.BR mgconfd (8),
.BR cframe (3).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
.B H248
is peculiar to the
.B OpenSS7
Media Gateway stack and supports Version 1.0 of the MEGACO protocol.
.PP
.B H248
does not appear until
.B strss7
release 0.8.4.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
h248
.]
.[
rfc2885
.]
.[
rfc2886
.]
.[
rfc3015
.]
.[
rfc2805
.]
.[
rfc2897
.]
.[
rfc3054
.]
.[
rfc3064
.]
.[
rfc3149
.]
.[
rfc3435
.]
.[
rfc3441
.]
.[
rfc3525
.]
.[
%L IS-811
%R TIA/EIA IS-811
%T Telecommunications \(em Telephone Terminal Equipment \(em Performance and Interoperability Requirements for Voice-over-IP (VoIP) Feature Telephone
%D July 2000
%Q TIA/EIA
%I Telecommunications Industry Association
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
