'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man4/INET.4.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH INET 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B INET
\- OpenSS7 INET Devices
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int " inet_stream " = open(" inet_device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.PP
The
.B INET
related collection of drivers and modules provide INET capabilities in a
number of related forms, including TCP, UDP and IP variants.
.\"
.SS "Drivers"
.PP
.B INET
provides the following
.I STREAMS
pseudo-device drivers:
.\".TP
.\".BR socksys (4)
.\".TP
.\".BR sscop (4)
.TP
.BR sctp (4)
is a STREAMS SCTP driver providing a TPI
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
interface that uses the XOS (XTI over Sockets) approach.
This device is only provided if the system is equipped with the OpenSS7
Linux Native Sockets version of SCTP.  The OpenSS7 STREAMS SCTP is a direct
STREAMS implementation that is available in the
.B strsctp
package.
.TP
.BR tcp (4)
is a STREAMS TCP driver providing a TPI
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
interface that uses the XOS (XTI over Sockets) approach.
.TP
.BR udp (4)
is a STREAMS UDP driver providing a TPI
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
interface that uses the XOS (XTI over Sockets) approach.
.TP
.BR rawip (4)
is a STREAMS RAWIP driver providing a TPI
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
interface that uses the XOS (XTI over Sockets) approach.
.TP
.BR ticlts (4)
is a STREAMS connectionless-mode UNIX domain driver providing a TPI
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
interface that uses the XOS (XTI over Sockets) approach.
.TP
.BR ticots (4)
is a STREAMS connection-oriented UNIX domain driver providing a TPI
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
interface that uses the XOS (XTI over Sockets) approach.
.TP
.BR ticots_ord (4)
is a STREAMS connection-oriented orderly release UNIX domain driver providing a TPI
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
interface that uses the XOS (XTI over Sockets) approach.
.\".TP
.\".BR udp2 (4)
.\"is a STREAMS UDP driver providing a TPI
.\".[
.\"TPI Revision 2.0.0
.\".]
.\"interface that is directly implemented in STREAMS.
.\".TP
.\".BR rawip2 (4)
.\"is a STREAMS RAWIP driver providing a TPI
.\".[
.\"TPI Revision 2.0.0
.\".]
.\"interface that is directly implemented in STREAMS.
.\".TP
.\".BR tcp2 (4)
.\"is a STREAMS TCP driver providing a TPI
.\".[
.\"TPI Revision 2.0.0
.\".]
.\"interface that is directly implemented in STREAMS.
.\"(Right...  This driver is incomplete.)
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.\".TP
.\".B /dev/socksys
.\".TP
.\".B /dev/sscop
.TP
.B /dev/tcp
The Transmission Control Protocol device,
.BR tcp (4).
.TP
.B /dev/udp
The User Datagram Protocol device,
.BR udp (4).
.TP
.B /dev/rawip
The Raw Internet Protocol device,
.BR rawip (4).
.TP
.B /dev/sctp
The Stream Control Transmission Protocol device,
.BR sctp (4).
.\".TP
.\".B /dev/tcp2
.\".TP
.\".B /dev/udp2
.\".TP
.\".B /dev/rawip2
.PD
.PP
Additional devices that are provided are symbolic links to one of the
foregoing devices.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sctp (4),
.BR tcp (4),
.BR udp (4),
.BR rawip (4),
.BR ticlts (4),
.BR ticots (4),
.BR ticots_ord (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was updated @PACKAGE_DATE@ for
.B @PACKAGE@
release
.BR "@VERSION@" .
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Most of the devices and modules listed here did not appear until
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
