'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ioconfig.4.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 04:42:16 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 04:42:16 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ioconfig.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 04:42:16  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2011-02-07 02:14:40  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH IOCONFIG 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ioconfig
\- ioconfig entry format
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/ioparams.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B ioconfig
file is used to retain information on system's IO configuration across
reboots.  It contains two types of information:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Mappings of dynamically allocated major numbers to drivers.
.IP \(bu
Mappings of instance numbers to hardware paths.
.PP
At boot time this file is read and the information is stored in the
.B io_tree
kernel data structure.  The
.B ioconfig
file is created by
.BR insf (8)
at install time; and is modified by
.BR insf "(8), " rmsf "(8) and " ioscan (8)
when devices are added or removed.  The only purpose of the
.B ioconfig
file is to maintain configuration information when the system is not
running.  While the system is running, all accesses are made directly to the
kernel
.B io_tree
structure, although any tools that change the kernel structures must also
keep
.B ioconfig
consistent.
.PP
There will be two copies of
.B ioconfig
maintained:
.BR /etc/ioconfig " and " /stand/ioconfig .
A second copy is placed in
.B /stand
because NFS diskless clients are not guaranteed to have a reliable
.B /etc
directory at boot time.
.PP
The
.B ioconfig
file begins with the
.B ioconfig
magic number.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#define IOCONFIG_MAGIC 0x21224941 /* magic number */
.fi
.PP
Following the magic number is an array of
.B ioconfig_record
structures, which logically form a tree structure defining the connectivity
of the various levels of software modules and managers, the device class and
hardware address of each element, and the logical unit associated with each
leaf node.  The root of the tree is array element 0.
.PP
Each
.B ioconfig_record
contains the following fields as defined in
.BR <sys/ioparams.h> :
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#define IOCONFIG_FILE    "/etc/ioconfig"
#define MAX_NAME_LEN     16

union ioconfig_record {
    char rec_name[MAX_NAME_LEN]; /* record type */
    ioconfig_t ioc;
    dyn_major_t dm;
} ioconfig_record;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The definitions of each element are as follows:
.TP
.I rec_name
Each record must have a character string as its first entry that is used to
identify the record type.  The default record is the
.B ioconfig_t .
When the string begins with an underscore
.RB ( _ )
character then it is one of the variants.
.TP
.I ioc
This is the default record entry for the
.B ioconfig
file.  The
.I rec_name
must not begin with underscore
.RB ( _ )
character to distinguish the record from other record types.
.RS
.PP
The
.B ioconfig_t
contains the following elements:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ioconfig {
    char name[MAX_NAME_LEN];  /* Node name: disc4, scsi_disk */
    char class[MAX_NAME_LEN]; /* Node class: disk, tape, etc */
    hw_path_t hw_path;        /* Path to this node */
    int instance;             /* Instance number within class */
} ioconfig_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.TP
.I dm
This record stores information about major numbers dynamically assigned to
drivers.  It is used to allow major number assignments to persist across
boots.  The
.I rec_name
must begin with an underscore
.RB ( _ )
character to distinguish the record from other record types.
.RS
.PP
The
.B dyn_major_t
contains the following elements:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct dyn_major {
    char rec_name[MAX_NAME_LEN]; /* Must be _DYN_MAJOR" */
    char name[MAX_NAME_LEN];     /* Driver name */
    int c_major;
    int b_major;
    int reserved;
} dyn_major_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/ioconfig
.TP
.B /stand/ioconfig
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ioscan (8),
.BR ioinit (8),
.BR insf (8),
.BR rmsf (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B ioconfig
file format is provided for compatibility with the
.IR HP-UX \(rg
file of the same name,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B ioconfig
is provided only for compatibility with
.IR HP-UX \(rg
for
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
devices.
The file will not function with regular
.B Linux
devices.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR HP-UX \(rg
documentation.
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B ioconfig
was developed by HP.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
