'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man4/ip.4.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH IP 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ip, ip2
\- Internet Protocol
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netinet/ip.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/tpi_ip.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/xti_ip.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int " ip_stream " = open(" ip_device ", " oflags );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int " ip_xtistr " = t_open(" ip_device ", " oflags );
.HP
.BI "int " ip_socket " = socket(" \fRPF_INET\fP ", " \fRSOCK_RAW\fP ", " \fRIPPROTO_IP\fP );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B IP
is an implementation of the Internet Protocol
.RB ( IP )
defined in RFC XXXX.
It implements a datagrams, best effort packet service.  Packets may be
reordered or duplicated in the network before they arrive.
.B IP
generates and checks checksums to catch transmission errors.
.PP
.B IP
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
pseudo-device driver using the
.BR INET (4)
.B strinet
packet for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
The
.B strinet
packet translates Linux native
.BR ip (7)
sockets into TPI
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
transport provider streams suitable for use with XTI,
.[
xti
.]
.[
xns98
.]
(see
.BR xti (3)).
.PP
.B IP
provides one connectionless TPI stream type.  To select the stream,
.I ip_device
can be one of the following:
.TP
.IR /dev/ip " or " /dev/inet/ip
This device provides access to the
.B IP
protocol service interface using the T-primitives of the Transport Provider
Interface,
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR tpi (7),
used for the Internet Protocol as described in
.BR tpi_ip (7).
The
.BR tpi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR xnet (3)
or
.BR xti (3)
library and provides
.B IP
interface using XTI
.[
xti
.]
.[
xns98
.]
as described in
.BR xti_ip (3).
.PP
.B IP
provides one socket type for use by the
.BR sockets (3)
library
.BR socket (7)
calls.
.B IP
provides sockets in the protocol family
.BR PF_INET " and " PF_INET6
using the protocol number
.BR IPPROTO_IP .
The
.I socket_type
argument can be one of the following:
.TP
.B SOCK_RAW
A standard
.I SOCK_RAW
socket that provides direct access to IP packets.  This socket uses the
underlying
.I /dev/rawip
transport service provider.
.TP
.B SOCK_PACKET
A standard
.I SOCK_PACKET
socket that preserves message boundaries, does not Nagle, and provides only
best effort unreliable delivery in a connectionless association.  This socket
uses the underlying
.IR Linux \(rg
.B IP
socket implementation,
.BR ip (7),
directly.  See
.BR packet (7)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The following entries in
.B /etc/sock2path
provides the information necessary for
.BR socksys (4)
to use these devices:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lllllll.
PF_INET:SOCK_PACKET:IPPROTO_IP:/dev/ip:tpi:clts
PF_INET6:SOCK_PACKET:IPPROTO_IP:/dev/ip:tpi:clts
.TE
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR socksys "(4) and " sock2path (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2s)
and
.BR streamio (7)
.I I_STR
system calls on the
.IR ip_stream ", " ip_xtistr " or " ip_socket .
These management controls are described in
.BR timod (4),
.BR sockmod (4)
and
.BR socksys (4).
See also
.BR ip (7)
for sockets.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B IP
has several implementations.  This manpage is for the
.IR STREAMS (4)
implementation.  There is also an
.BR INET (4)
implementation that provides
.BR tpi (7)
access to the
.IR Linux \(rg
NET4 version of
.BR IP .
For more information on the
.IR Linux \(rg
NET4 version, see
.BR ip (7).
.PP
Note that using
.BR sockets (3)
over
.I STREAMS
for the
.B IP
driver might be rather inefficient: unless you need to push modules, use a
direct Linux native socket instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The current
.B IP
pseudo-device driver hook directly into the Linux kernel IP subsystem.
Previous approaches used a STREAMS over Sockets method that was inefficient
and inflexible.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <sys/socket.h> ,
.BR <netinet/ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/xti.h> ,
.BR <sys/xti_ip.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.BR /dev/ip ,
.BR /dev/inet/ip .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR INET (4),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR ip (7),
.BR ip (8),
.BR npi (7),
.BR npi_ip (7),
.BR sock2path (5),
.BR socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR sockmod (4),
.BR socksys (4),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR STREAMS (4),
.BR timod (4),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR tpi_ip (7),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_ip (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.B IP
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.I /dev/rawip
device providing a Transport Provider Interface
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
is roughly compatible with the raw ip TPI streams provided by
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and other
.IR UNIX \(rg
implementations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The TPI and NPI interfaces to IP services are implementation dependent and
are not subject to standardization.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.I STREAMS
access to IP services was originally performed using an STREAMS over Socket
approach using the
.BR INET (4)
pseudo-device driver from the
.I strinet
package.  A more flexible direct implementation was performed using a separate
driver that hooks directly into the Linux IP subsystem.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
