'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: isot.4.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:34:49 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:34:49 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: isot.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:34:49  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH ISOT 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B isot
\- STD 35 (RFC 1006) ISO Transport over TCP (ISOT)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP
.IB tcp_stream " = open(" \(lq/dev/tcp\(rq ", O_RDWR);
.PD 0
.HP
.BI ioctl( tcp_stream ", I_PUSH, " \(lqisot\(rq );
.PD
.HP
.IB udp_stream " = open(" \(lq/dev/udp\(rq ", O_RDWR);
.PD 0
.HP
.BI ioctl( udp_stream ", I_PUSH, " \(lqisot\(rq );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ISOT
is an implementation of ISO Transport over TCP (ISOT) as described in RFC 983,
.[
rfc983
.]
superseded by RFC 1006.
.[
rfc1006
.]
This RFC describes the use of IS 8073
.[
ISO/IEC 8073 X.224
.]
ISO Transport Class 0 over TCP/IP (ISOT) by using TCP/IP as a
Connection-oriented Network Service Provider instead of ISO CONS.
.[
ISO/IEC 8878 X.223
.]
It describes an adaptation of TCP to an ISO CONS
.[
ISO/IEC 8878 X.223
.]
network service provider through the use of a 4 byte header used to delimit
NPDUs insed of the TCP stream.
.PP
RFC 983
.[
rfc983
.]
and RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
provided for ISO Transport Class 0 over TCP (or UDP under
protest) (ISOT) on port number 102.
RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
is a standard (STD 35).
RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
has been updated by RFC 2126
.[
rfc2126
.]
but they both use the same port number 102 and are compatible in approach.
Both RFC 2126
.[
rfc2126
.]
and RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
place their TP0 based service on TCP and UDP port
number 102, and, therefore, RFC 2126
.[
rfc2126
.]
is necessarily backward compatible with
RFC 1006.
.[
rfc1006
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
Unfortunately, RFC 1006 (STD 35)
.[
rfc1006
.]
saw fit to also modify the ISO Transport Class
0 protocol to adapt it to TCP/IP.  In doing so, it became possible that an
compliant ISO Transport Protocol Class 0 implementation would not necessarily
interoperate (well) with a RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
implementation.
Nevertheless, it is possible, using the
.BR xti_osi (3)
interface from
.BR xti (3),
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.[
xns 5.2
.]
to affect the operation of an ISO 8073
.[
ISO 8073 X.224
.]
conforming Transport implementation so that it may run directly over the ISO
8878
.[
ISO 8878 X.223
.]
based network services emulation of RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
or RFC 2126.
.[
rfc2126
.]
.PP
Therefore, it is possible to implement
.B isot
as a pushable module over a TCP or UDP Stream that converts the Stream to
emulate a ISO 8878 (CONS)
.[
iso 8878 x.223
.]
network connection, and then push a
.B tp0
module over that Stream where the
.B tp0
module simply implements the ISO Transport Protocol Class 0 operation per ISO
8073.
.[
iso 8073 x.224
.]
The
.B isot
module accepts a Transport Provider Interface (TPI) Revsion 2.0.0,
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
service interface at its lower service boundary, where the semantics of the TPI
inteface are those of UDP or TCP as described in
.BR xti_inet (3).
The
.B isot
module provides a Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
service interface at its upper service boundary, where the semantics of the NPI
interface are those of OSI CONS.
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.SS Unsupported Primitives
.PP
The following primitives are not supported by the NS-Provider:
.\"
.TP
.BR N_UNITDATA_REQ "(7), " N_UNITDATA_IND "(7), " N_UDERROR_IND (7)
These primitives are not supported as this is a CONS provider.  If the NS-User
issues a
.BR N_UNITDATA_REQ (7)
primitive, the NS-Provider will respond with an
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with the NPI error code
.RB [ NNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.TP
.BR N_EXDATA_REQ "(7), " N_EXDATA_IND "(7), " N_DATACK_REQ "(7), " N_DATACK_IND "(7)
These primitives are not supported by the NS-Provider as the NS-Provider does not
support expedited data or receipt confirmation.  If the NS-User issues the
.BR N_EXDATA_REQ "(7) or " N_DATACK_REQ (7)
primitives the NS-Provider will respond with an
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with the
.RB [ NNOTSUPPORT ]
NPI error code.
.\"
.TP
.BR N_RESET_REQ "(7), " N_RESET_RES "(7), " N_RESET_IND "(7), " N_RESET_CON "(7)
The NS-Provider does not support the reset service.  If the NS-Provider
receives the
.BR N_RESET_REQ (7)
primitive, it will treat it the same as an
.BR N_DISCON_REQ (7).
.BR N_RESET_RES (7)
primitive is not used as a
.BR N_RESET_IND (7)
will not be issued by the NS-Provider.
The
.BR N_RESET_IND "(7) and " N_RESET_CON (7)
primitives will not be issued by the NS-Provider.
.\"
.SS Unchanged Primitives
.PP
The following primitives function unalatered:
.\"
.TP
.BR N_OK_ACK "(7), " N_ERROR_ACK "(7), " N_UNBIND_REQ "(7), " N_INFO_REQ "(7), " N_DATA_REQ "(7), " N_DATA_IND "(7)
These primitives are interpreted the same as for OSI NS-Providers.
.\"
.SS Modified Primitives
.PP
The following primitives are modified from their OSI NS-Provider behavior:
.\"
.TP
.BR N_INFO_ACK "(7)
This primitive is interpreted the same as for OSI NS-Providers with the
following exceptions:
.RS
.TP
.I NSDU_size
Always returns
.BR 65536 .
.TP
.I ENSDU_size
Always returns zero
.RB ( 0 ).
Expedited data is not supported.
.TP
.I CDATA_size
Always returns zero
.RB ( 0 ).
Transfer of user data with the N-CONNECT is not supported.
.TP
.I DDATA_size
Always returns zero
.RB ( 0 ).
Transfer of user data with the N-DISCONNECT is not supported.
.TP
.I ADDR_size
Always returns the maximum size of an OSI NSAP address
.RB ( 20 ).
.TP
.IR ADDR_length ", " ADDR_offset
Returns the local (bound) address or null.  This address will have an AFI of
35 and a ICP of 1.
.TP
.IR QOS_length ", " QOS_offset
Returns a
.B N_qos_co_opt_sel_t
structure with settings appropriate for TCP, or a
.B N_qos_cl_sel_t
structure with settings appropriate for UDP.
.TP
.IR QOS_range_length ", " QOS_range_offset
Returns a
.B N_qos_co_opt_range_t
structure with settings appropriate for TCP, or a
.B N_qos_cl_range_t
structure with settings appropriate for UDP.
.TP
.I OPTIONS_flags
Always set to zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.BR REC_CONF_OPT " and " DEFAULT_RC_SEL
will not be set as receipt confirmation is not supported by RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
or RFC 2126.
.[
rfc2126
.]
.B EX_DATA_OPT
will not be set as expedited data is not supported by RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
nor RFC 2126
.[
rfc2126
.]
TP0 operation.
.TP
.I NIDU_size
Always set to
.BR 4096 .
.TP
.I SERV_type
Set to
.B N_CONS
for TCP and
.B N_CLNS
for UDP.
.TP
.I CURRENT_state
Set to the current state of the interface.
.TP
.I PROVIDER_type
Always set to
.BR N_SNICFP .
.TP
.I NODU_size
Always set to
.BR 4096 .
.TP
.IR PROTOID_length ", " PROTOID_offset
Always null.  The only protocol supported is the null protocol (i.e\&., OSI
Transport protocol).
.TP
.I NPI_version
Always set to
.BR N_VERSION_2 .
.RE
.\"
.TP
.BR N_BIND_REQ "(7)
This primitive is interpreted the same as for OSI NS-Providers with the
following exceptions:
.RS
.TP
.IR ADDR_length ", " ADDR_offset
The address must be an AFI 35 ICP 1 address as specified in RFC 4548.
.[
rfc4548
.]
It will be converted directly into an IP address and optional port number.  If
a port number is not specified and the number of connection indications is
greater than zero, port 102 will be used as specified in RFC 1006 and RFC 2126.
If the number of connection indications is zero, the underlying TCP or UDP
transport provider will select a port number.
.RS
.PP
Otherwise, these fields are interpreted as per an OSI NS-Provider.  In
particular, the NS-User may not provide an address and the NS-Provider will
select one.
.RE
.TP
.I CONIND_number
Interpreted the same as an OSI NS-Provider.
.TP
.I BIND_flags
Only the
.B TOKEN_REQUEST
flag is valid.
.TP
.IR PROTOID_length ", " PROTOID_offset
This must be null.  Only OSI Transport protocol is supported.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.BR N_BIND_ACK "(7)
This primitive is interpreted the same as for OSI NS-Providers with the
following exceptions:
.RS
.TP
.IR ADDR_length ", " ADDR_offset
Interpreted as an OSI NS-Provider.
.TP
.I CONIND_number
Interpreted as an OSI NS-Provider.
.TP
.I TOKEN_value
Interpreted as an OSI NS-Provider.  The token value is the same as the TCP
token value and is passed through from TPI.
.TP
.IR PROTOID_length ", " PROTOID_offset
Interpreted as an OSI NS-Provider.  This will always be null.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.BR N_CONN_REQ "(7)
This primitive is interpreted the same as for OSI NS-Providers with the
following exceptions:
.RS
.TP
.IR DEST_length ", " DEST_offset
Only OSI NSAP addresses that identify an IP address and port number are
applicable here: that is, the generic string addresses of RFC 1278,
.[
rfc1278
.]
the IPv4
address of RFC 1277
.[
rfc1277
.]
and RFC 4548,
.[
rfc4548
.]
and the IPv6 address of RFC 1888
.[
rfc1888
.]
and RFC 4548.
.[
rfc4548
.]
.TP
.I CONN_flags
The \fICONN_flags\fP field cannot contain any flags.  That is, the
\fBREC_CONF_OPT\fP and \fBEX_DATA_OPT\fP options are not permitted.  TCP cannot
support the concept of receipt confirmation, neither can UDP.  Also, expedited
data transfer is not supported by UDP and is insufficient in TCP.  Neither
option is supported or expected by RFC 1006,
.[
rfc1006
.]
nor RFC 2126.
.[
rfc2126
.]
If requested, the [\fBNBADFLAG\fP] error will be returned in an
\fBN_ERROR_ACK\fP(7) primitive.
.TP
.IR QOS_length ", " QOS_offset
Quality of Service parameters can be specified but will be translated to TCP/IP
TOS values and other IP parameters.  Other QOS parameters will be ignored.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.BR N_CONN_RES "(7)
This primitive is interpreted the same as for OSI NS-Providers with the
following exceptions:
.RS
.TP
.I TOKEN_value
The token value will be passed through to TCP and must be the same as one
passed from TCP.
.TP
.IR RES_length ", " RES_offset
The responding address cannot be different from the
.IR DEST_length ", " DEST_offset
that was passed on the connection indication.  Otherwise, a
.RB [ NBADADDR ]
error will be returned in
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7).
.TP
.I SEQ_number
The sequence number will be passed through to TCP and must be the same as one
passed from TCP in the \fBN_CONN_IND\fP(7).
.TP
.I CONN_flags
The \fICONN_flags\fP field cannot contain any flags.  That is, the
\fBREC_CONF_OPT\fP and \fBEX_DATA_OPT\fP options are not permitted.  TCP cannot
support the concept of receipt confirmation, neither can UDP.  Also, expedited
data transfer is not supported by UDP and is insufficient in TCP.  Neither
option is supported or expected by RFC 1006,
.[
rfc1006
.]
nor RFC 2126.
.[
rfc2126
.]
If requested, the [\fBNBADFLAG\fP] error will be returned in an
\fBN_ERROR_ACK\fP(7) primitive.
.TP
.IR QOS_length ", " QOS_offset
Quality of Service parameters can be specified but will be translated to TCP/IP
TOS values and other IP parameters.  Other QOS parameters will be ignored.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.BR N_CONN_IND "(7)
This primitive is interpreted the same as for OSI NS-Providers with the
following exceptions:
.RS
.TP
.IR DEST_length ", " DEST_offset
This will always be the same as the bound address (i.e\&., the address returned
by
.BR N_INFO_ACK (7)
and
.BR N_BIND_ACK (7).
.TP
.IR SRC_length ", " SRC_offset
This is the AFI 35, ICP 1, OSI NSAP address corresponding to the connecting TCP
peer.  The address includes the TCP port number.
.TP
.I SEQ_number
This value is passed through from the TCP TPI interface.
.TP
.I CONN_flags
This value will always be zero and will not contain
.BR REC_CONF_OPT " or " EX_DATA_OPT
flags as the NS-Provider neither supports receipt confirmation nor expedited
data.
.TP
.IR QOS_length ", " QOS_offset
This may contain a
.B N_qos_co_sel_t
structure containing the QOS parameters suitable for TCP.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.BR N_CONN_CON "(7)
This primitive is interpreted the same as for OSI NS-Providers with the
following exceptions:
.RS
.TP
.IR RES_length ", " RES_offset
Where a port number was not specified in the AFI 35, ICP 1 OSI NSAP on the
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive, this address may be present and may also contain the TCP port number
of the peer to which the NS-User has connected.
.TP
.I CONN_flags
.TP
This value will always be zero and will not contain
.BR REC_CONF_OPT " or " EX_DATA_OPT
flags as the NS-Provider neither supports receipt confirmation nor expedited
data.
.TP
.IR QOS_length ", " QOS_offset
This may contain a
.B N_qos_co_sel_t
structure containing the QOS parameters suitable for TCP.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.BR N_DISCON_REQ "(7)
This primitive is interpreted the same as for OSI NS-Providers with the
following exceptions:
.RS
.TP
.I DISCON_reason
When this field value is
.BR N_DISC_NORMAL ,
and the connection has been formed,
an orderly release will be initiated with TCP.  When this field value is other
than
.BR N_DISC_NORMAL ,
or when the connection has not yet been formed, an abortive release will be
initiated with TCP.
.TP
.IR RES_length ", " RES_offset
These fields must specify a null address.
.TP
.I SEQ_number
Interpreted as per a normal OSI NS-Provider.  This value is passed through from
TCP.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.BR N_DISCON_IND "(7)
This primitive is interpreted the same as for OSI NS-Providers with the
following exceptions:
.RS
.TP
.IR DISCON_orig ", " DISCON_reason
In general, TCP has no idea of the reason for disconnect.  If TCP disconnected
with an orderly release, we assume that the origin is the
.B N_USER
and the reason is
.BR N_DISC_NORMAL .
If TCP disconnected with an abortive disconnect, we assume that the origin is
the
.B N_PROVIDER
and the reason is selected from those availble for the NS-Provider based on the
disconnect reason given by TCP.
.TP
.IR RES_length ", " RES_offset
These will always be null.
.TP
.I SEQ_number
This is zero, or the sequence number of a previous
.BR N_CONN_IND (7).
The value is passed through from TCP.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
ISOT does not support any input-output controls of its own.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
This module is not implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
This module is not implemented.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.TP
.B isot
the ISOT module is a
.I STREAMS
module named
.RI \(lq isot \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/tcp
The
.B tcp (4)
device opened onto which ISOT is pushed.
.TP
.B /dev/udp
The
.B udp (4)
device opened onto which ISOT is pushed.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR itot (4),
.IR ISO (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
This module is not implemented and so cannot have any bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation of ISOT is specific to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
ISOT conforms to RFC 1006.
.[
rfc1006
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ISOT
is new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
