'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: itos.4.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:10 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:10 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: itos.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:10  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH ITOS 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B isos, itos
\- ISO Transport over SCTP (ISOS/ITOS)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP
.IB sctp_stream " = open( /dev/sctp_t ", O_RDWR);
.HP
.BI ioctl( sctp_stream ", I_PUSH, " \(lqisos\(rq );
.sp
.HP
.IB sctp_stream " = open( /dev/sctp_t ", O_RDWR);
.HP
.BI ioctl( sctp_stream ", I_PUSH, " \(lqitos\(rq );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ISOS
is an implementation of ISO Transport over SCTP (ISOS) similar to that
described for TCP in RFC 983,
.[
rfc983
.]
and superseded by RFC 1006.
.[
rfc1006
.]
.B ITOS 
is an implementation of ISO Transport over SCTP (ITOS) similar to that
described for TCP in RFC 2126.
.[
rfc2126
.]
In accordance with the naming convention for the TCP versions of the
protocols, the SCTP version
.I ISOS
refers to the RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
flavor for carrying TP0 only, and the
.I ITOS
refers to the RFC 2126
.[
rfc2126
.]
flavor for carrying TP2 as well.
.PP
Regardless of the naming differences, these RFCs describe the use of IS 8073
.[
ISO/IEC 8073
.]
ISO Transport Class 0 over TCP/IP (ISOT/ITOT) by using TCP/IP as a
Connection-oriented Network service Provider instead of ISO CONS.
.[
x213
.]
They describe the adaptation of TCP to an ISO CONS
.[
x213
.]
network service provider through the use of a 4 byte header used to delimit
NPDUs inside of the TCP stream.
RFC 983
.[
rfc983
.]
and RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
provided for ISO Transport Class 0 over TCP (or UDP under
protest) (ISOT) on port number 102.
RFC 1006
is a standard (STD 35).
.PP
RFC 2126
.[
rfc2126
.]
also provides for ISO Transport Class 0 over TCP (or UDP under protest) (ISOT)
on port number 102.  But, in addition to these services provided by RFC
1006/STD 35, RFC 2126 also provides for ISO Transport Class 2 over TCP (or UDP
under protest) (ITOT), using independent TCP/IP connections to port number
399, and also supports both IPv4 and IPv6.
.PP
In a similar way
.BR ISOS / ITOT
provide a mechanism for SCTP (Stream Control Transmission Protocol, RFC 2960
.[[
rfc2960
.]]).
Under SCTP, however, the use of the 4-byte header to delimit NPDUs is no
longer necesary, as SCTP preserves record boundaries.  Also, the TCP flavor
must open a separate TCP stream for each ISO CONS VC, whereas SCTP can support
multiple VCs on a single association.
Also, there is no reason why SCTP cannot suport the other transport protocol
classes such as TP1 TP3 and TP4.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Not impelmented, but here is a stab at explaining the design:
.PP
The following steps will be taken:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
A TP connection manager opens a connection management Stream on the TP
multiplexing driver and listens for requests for the establishment of network
connections.
.IP 2.
A TP user opens an upper Stream for ISO Transport Class 0 or ISO Transport
Class 2.  The TP user then attempts t listen on the transport endpoint or
connect the transport endpoint.  If a suitable (determined by address format,
TSAP, and ownership) network connection is not available, it requests a
network connection from the connection manager. (TP2 performs multiplexing, so
it is possible that many TP2 Streams could be opened and served by the same
network connection.)
.IP 3.
When the connection manager receives the request, it uses the address format,
TSAP and qos parameters to determin if an ISOS or ITOS network connection is
requested.
.IP 4.
If an ISOS or ITOS network connection is requested, the connection manager
opens an
.BR sctp (4),
.BR tcp (4),
or
.BR udp (4)
Stream to the requested address and connects the Stream to the appropriate
port number (102 for ISOS TP0 and 399 for ITOS TP2).
.IP 5.
The connection manager then pushes the ISOS or ITOS moudl on the Stream.  This
transforms the Stream into an ISO CONS
.[
x213
.]
provider and presents the
.BR npi (7)
service interface at the upper boundary.
.IP 6.
The connection manager then links the ISOS or ITOS Stream under the TP
multiplexing driver and configures the Stream with the TP driver in response
to the network connection request.
.IP 7.
TP then proceeds as normal, unaware that SCTP is providing the ISO CONS
.[
x213
.]
service.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The service interface for the ISOS and ITOS modules at the upper boundary
(write queue) is the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR npi (7).
The service interace for the ISOS and ITOS modules at the lower boundary (read
queue) is the Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR tpi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
Generic string addresses for ISOS and ITOS are described in RFC 1278.
.[
rfc1278
.]
.PP
OSI NSAP addresses for ISOS and ITOS are described for IPv4 in RFC 1277,
.[
rfc1277
.]
for IPv6 in RFC 1888
.[
rfc1888
.]
superseded by IPv4 and IPv6 in RFC 4548.
.[
rfc4548
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B ISOS
and
.B ITOS
modules support the ISO CONS
options described in X.213
.[
x213
.]
and X.223.
.[
x223
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
The
ISOS and ITOS modules interwork
.BR npi (7)
primitives from its upper interface (write queue) to 
.BR tpi (7)
primitives at its lower interface (read queue).
This section describes only the upper interface.  For a description of the
lower interface, see
.BR sctp (4).
.SS N_BIND_REQ\fR(7), \fPN_BIND_ACK\fR(7)
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
ISOS and ITOS do not support any input-output controls of their own.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
These modules are not implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
These modules are not implemented.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.TP
.B isos
the ISOS module is a
.I STREAMS
module named
.RI \(lq isos \(rq.
.TP
.B itos
the ITOS module is a
.I STREAMS
module named
.RI \(lq itos \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/sctp_t
The
.B sctp (4)
device opened onto which ISOS or ITOS is pushed.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.IR ISO (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
These modules are not implemented and so cannot have any bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation of ISOS and ITOS is specific to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
but is compatible with the comparable
.BR isot (4)
and
.BR itot (4)
implementations for TCP/IP.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
ISOS and ITOS have not yet been subsjected to standardization.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ISOS " and " ITOS
are new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
