'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: loop.4.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:10 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:10 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: loop.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:10  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH LOOP 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B loop
\- \fISTREAMS\fP loop-around pseudo-device driver
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B loop
psuedo-device multiplexing driver is an implementation of the loop-around driver described in the
.RI \(lq "UNIX\(rg System V Release 4 \- STREAMS Programmer's Guide" ,\(rq
.[
svr4spg
.]
with a number of exceptions and enhancments.  The primary purposes of the
.B loop
pseudo-device driver are: to provide a capability to the
.BR test-streams (8)
conformance and verification test program, for testing passing of STREAMS file descriptors across a
pipe-like driver;
and to provide an example of a pipe-like driver for the STREAM programmer.
To avoid complications for testing, and to serve as a basic example, the driver is as simplistic as
possible.
.PP
The
.B loop
pseudo-device driver has the following behaviour:
.TP 3n
.B "open\fR(2s)"
When a
.B loop
STREAM is opened using
.BR open (2s)
a new
.B loop
STREAM is created.  The newly created STREAM is not associated with any other STREAM.
Issuing the
.B LOOP_SET
input-output control is necessary, to associate the loop STREAM with another one,
before data can be written to or read from the STREAM.  Any attempt to send data on the STREAM
before it is associated with another will result in an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message being sent upstream causing all further read, write or control operations on the stream to
fail with error
.RB [ ENXIO ].
.TP
.B LOOP_SET
The
.BR LOOP_SET
input-output control described under
.RI \(lq IOCTLS ,\(rq
below, is used to connect the upstream and downstream flow between the requesting STREAM and a
specified STREAM.  Once connected in this fashion, data can be passed in either direction.
.TP
.B "putpmsg\fR(2s), \fPgetpmsg\fR(2s)"
Data is passed in either direction using the
.BR putpmsg (2s)
or
.BR getpmsg (2s)
calls as normal.  The
.B loop
driver coordinates
.I STREAMS
flow control across the driver by explicitly enabling service procedures of the feeding side when
the accepting side is back-enabled.
.TP
.B "close\fR(2s)"
When an STREAM is closed using the
.BR close (2s)
system call, the STREAM is dismantled.
If the upper STREAM remains connected to another STREAM (due to a previous call to
.BR LOOP_SET ),
the connection will be broken and a
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message will be sent to the other STREAM.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B loop
pseudo-device loop-around driver is an implementation of the loop-around driver described in the
.RI \(lq "UNIX\(rg System V Release 4 \- STREAMS Programmer's Guide" ,\(rq
.[
svr4spg
.]
with a number of considerations as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
The
.I SVR4
driver does not implement input-output controls other than
.BR LOOP_SET .
In contrast,
.B loop
implements a set of input-output controls compatible with the
loop-around driver for use in testing.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.TP
.B LOOP_SET
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B loop
driver is used by the
.BR test-streams (8)
conformance and verification test program to test passing of file descriptors across a
pipe-like driver.  Much of its behaviour is specific to testing and cannot be altered without
impacting the ability of the
.BR test-streams (8)
conformance and verification test program results.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B loop
is implemented as described in the
.IR "SVR4 SPG" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/sloop
The external filesystem
.I STREAMS
loop device.
.TP
.BR /dev/streams/loop ", " /devices/loop
The
.BR specfs (5)
shadow special filesystem
.I STREAMS
loop device.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mux (4),
.BR nullmod (4),
.BR test-streams (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B loop
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
provides the
.B loop
pseudo-device driver for testing
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Although this driver is described in the
.IR "SVR4 SPG"
.[
svr4spg
.]
as a driver example, most
.I STREAMS
implementations do not actually provide such a driver.
.IP \(em
.B loop
is provided primarily for use by the
.BR test-streams (8)
conformance and verification test program, and as an example of a pipe-like driver with flow
control supported across the driver.  It should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
modules, driver or applications programs.
.PP
See
.IR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR4.
.[
svr4spg
.]
Conformance is verified using the
.BR test-loop (8)
verification test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B loop
is described as an example loop-around driver in the
.IR "SVR4 SPG" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

