'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: matrix.4.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:34:51 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:34:51 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: matrix.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:34:51  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MATRIX 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B matrix
\- Switching Matrix Multiplexing Driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/chi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/chi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mxi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mxi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " ch_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " mx_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B MATRIX
is an implementation of a local channel and multiplex control as well a
a pseudo-digital cross-connect and software switching matrix component
of the OpenSS7 channel media stack.  It provides system centralized
switching and local access to and control of devices conforming to the
.BR mxi (7)
and
.BR chi (7)
interfaces.
.B MATRIX
provides for the control of the software switching matrix and underlying
interfaces and comunications facilities.  It provides pseudo-digital
cross-connect as well as multiplex and invert multiplex switching
services to its users and is effectively a virtual switching matrix,
DCCS and channel bank.
.PP
.B MATRIX
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing pseudo-device driver.
.BR MX " and " CH
Streams can be linked under the multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK (7)
or
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control commands of
.BR streamio (7).
.B MX
Streams can be configured using
.BR mxi_ioctl (4)
input-output control commands and
.B CH
Streams using
.BR chi_ioctl (4)
input-output control commands.
.\"
.SS "Upper Multiplex Service Interface"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Lower Multiplex Service Interface"
.PP
The
.B MATRIX
driver supports driver Streams linked under the multiplexing driver that
provide channelized access to device or pseudo-device drivers supporting
the
.IR "MX Interface (MXI)" ,
.[
mxi @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.BR mxi (7)
raw multiplex interface or the
.IR "CH Interface (CHI)" ,
.[
chi @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.BR chi (7)
media channel interface.
Each of these Streams linked beneath the
.BR MATRIX
driver represents communications channels to and from a device or
pseudo-device driver.  Some may be read hardware device drivers and
other may be virtual multiplexes or channel implemented as abstractions
over ATM or IP.
.PP
Lower multiplex Streams are always
.I Style 1
or attached
.I Style 2
MX or CH Streams.  That is,
.I Style 2
Streams must be attached to a PPA before being linked beneath the
.B MATRIX
multiplexing driver.
.\"
.SS Configuration
.PP
The
.B MATRIX
driver is configured by opening
.BR MX " or " CH
Streams on a real or pseudo-device driver that provides the MXI or CHI
interface and then linking these MX or CH Streams beneath the
.B MATRIX
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK (7)
or
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control commands provided by
.BR streamio (7).
Once linked, the MX or CH Streams are not immediately available to the
.B MATRIX
driver: they first must be configured using MX or CH input-output
control management commands.  A management control command must be used
to assign a
.I Style 1
minor device number to the lower Stream as well as a global PPA and
CLEI.  They
.I Style 1
minor device number is used as a minor device number when opening the
.B MATRIX
driver using a non-clone minor device to obtain a
.I Style 1
MX or CH Stream.  The global PPA or CLEI can be used by a
.I Style 1
clone
.B MATRIX
driver device Stream to attach to the associated PPA.
.PP
Lower MX or CH Streams that are linked beneath the multiplexing driver
using the
.IR I_LINK (7)
input-output control command can only be managed and connected to by
control Streams that performed the
.IR I_LINK (7)
operation.  Lower MX or CH Streams that are linked beneath the
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control can be managed only by the single MX or CH
management Stream.  Note that, to reduce complexity in the initial
driver,
.IR I_LINK (7)
operations are not yet supported.
.PP
Normally the
.B MATRIX
driver is not configured by user-supplied management programs.  Instead,
the
.BR swMIB (8)
SNMP management agent is responsible for performing, maintaining and
managing this configuration.  When the
.BR swMIB (8)
SNMP management agent starts up, it uses persistent configuration
information to open device drivers providing MX and CH Streams and links
then beneath the
.B MATRIX
multiplexing driver and performs minor device number and global PPA and
CLEI assignment.  The
.BR swMIB (8)
SNMP management agent is also for reporting statistics, operational
measurements, events and alarms in addition to maintaining the
configuration.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B MATRIX
driver is the software switching matrix workhorse of the
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
package.  Both CHI and MXI Streams can be opened on the upper multiplex.
Both CHI and MXI Streams can be linked on the lower multiplex.  Any
channel of any Stream, whether upper or lower, can be connected through
the multiplex to any other channel.
.PP
The
.B MATRIX
driver can perform simple isochronous conversion functions (e.g. mu-law
to a-law), digital padding, echo cancellation,
compression/decompression, minor rate adaption (e.g., 8-bit A-law into
5-bit GSM), that do not cause flow control considerations as it peforms
simple matrix operations.  Preestablished or canned tones and
announcements can be supported by the driver.  Dynamic announcements
need to be provided by an external module or in hardware.  Complex
operations such as HDLC conversion need to be provided upstream or in
hardware.
.PP
The
.B MATRIX
driver is intended to support single-rate and multi-rate channels;
however, single-rate and multi-rate connections must match and no
multi-rate conversion will be performed.  The purpose of the
.B MATRIX
driver is to perform simple circuit switching, pseudo-digital
cross-connect and channel back operations, and do them very fast.
.PP
The
.B MATRIX
driver can be modelled as a hardware Time-Space-Time switch, hoewever,
switching is performed primarily in software.  (When the driver connects
two channels from the lower multiplex, the data path may be through
hardware instead of software.)
.PP
The
.B MATRIX
driver, however, may be able to perform channel insertion and deletion
from a span.  For example, an entire E1 or T1 span can be can be
connected, channel for channel, to another E1 or T1 span.  The driver
has the ability to remove or insert one or more channels on either side
of the span connection.  The purpose of channel insertion and deletion
is to pull signalling channels out of span, particularly for ISDN
primary rate connections and SS7 signalling.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPERATION
.PP
At boot time, or when a new span or circuit is brought into service, a
management program opens a device or pseudo-device driver to obtain a
Stream representing the new channel (CHI) or span (MXI) and links the
Stream beneath the MATRIX multiplexing driver.  Input-output controls
are then used to assign the channel or span (and timeslots within the
span) to circuit identification numbers within the matrix.  These
channel identification numbers and the mapping to specific hardware
should be maintained in configuration files.
.PP
For example, when a T1 span is put into service on a V401p card, the
management program opens a Stream on the V401P MX device that represents
a T1 span, attaches the Stream to the T1 span, and then links the Stream
beneath the
.B MATRIX
driver.  A configuration table is used to determine the circuit number
assignments for the card and T1 span selected.  An input-output control
is issued to the
.B MATRIX
driver with the multiplex index of the linked span, and the circuit
number assignments for the span.  This input-output control also
identifies other particulars about the span (number of channels, DS0 or
DS0A, etc).  The
.B MATRIX
driver provides the ability for management programs to determine the
lower multiplex identifier that is associated with any circuit or
circuit group.  This allows the management program to perform an
.IR I_PLINK (7)
operation and close the Stream.  It can later discover the multiplex ID
from the circuit assignment (contained in the configuration table) with
an input-output control to the
.B MATRIX
driver, tso that it knows the multiplex ID to use to remove the circuit
or span from service with an
.IR I_PUNLINK (7)
operation.
.PP
As another example, an Ephemeral connection manager process that is
listening for Ephemeral connection requests on the connection management
Stream of the
.BR mg (4)
driver, receives a request to establish an RTP Stream to a remote host.
The Ephemeral connection manager opens a
.BR rawip (4)
device, and pushes the
.BR rtp (4)
module over the device.  The
.BR rtp (4)
module is set to convert the media Stream to that appropriate for the
channel to which the Ephemeral connection will ultimately occur, and the
Stream, which provides a CHI interface, is linked under the
.B MATRIX
driver.  It assigns a circuit identification number with an input-output
control.  The Ephemeral connection manager then requests that the
.B MATRIX
driver connect the Ephemeral connection to a Gateway circuit (one that
is already available for switching connection) through the matrix.
.PP
While CHI and MXI Streams on the lower multiplex are attached to their
circuits or connections for the full time that they are linked, CHI and
MXI Streams on the upper multiplex are not so.  When a user-level
program opens a Stream on the upper multiplex, it remains unattached to
any particular channel.  CHI or MIX primitives are used to connect the
upper multiplex Stream to either a lower or another upper multiplex
Stream.
.PP
Upper multiplex Streams provide the ability to terminate circuit
connections within another
.I STREAMS
module or driver above the
.B MATRIX
driver.  For example, a number of CHI Streams can be opened on the upper
multiplex and are identified by their device numbers and any assigned
termination identifiers.  These Streams, which represent unconnected
circuits, can then be linked under a tones or announcements dirver.
When a switching process such as the
.BR mg (4)
driver wishes to provide a tone or announcement to a circuit or an
ephemeral connection, it requests that the
.B MATRIX
driver connect the circuit or ephemeral connection to one on the upper
multiplex that terminates at the tones and announcements driver.  By
sending control messages to the tones and announcements driver, the
.BR mg (4)
driver can then play progress tones or announcements to the user at the
other end of the locally terminated connection.
.PP
As a final example, CH Streams can be opened on the upper multiplex and
connected to a media channel on the lower multiplex for the purpose of
monitoring both the receive and transmit directions of communications on
another connection.  This permits wiretapping applications.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The
.B MATRIX
driver provides two interfaces at the lower multiplex: the
.BR mxi (7)
interface for time-division multiplexed channel groups (i.e. spans or
VT), and the
.BR chi (7)
interface for discrete single- or multi-rate channels.
.PP
The
.B MX-MUX
driver provides four interfaces at the upper multiplex: the
.BR chi (7)
interface for single- and multi-rate channels, the
.BR mxi (7)
interface for time-division multiplexed channel groups (i.e. spans or
VT); and two management control interfaces (one for CH and one for MX)
for controlling lower multiplex Streams and connections made across the
matrix.
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
Multiplex and circuit addresses are 32-bit identifiers that are assigned
to circuits or circuit groups.  Each circuit (upper or lower) has a
unique identifier within the
.B MATRIX
driver.  One of the identifiers for a circuit within a circuit group can
be used to identify the circuit group as a whole.  Flags are used in
management primitives to indicate whether a particular identifier refers
to a circuit or a circuit group.
.PP
Assignment of circuit identifiers, asside from requirements for
uniqueness, are arbitrary.  For operation with ISUP, a good choice would
be to assign some bit range of the identifier to be identical to the
ISUP circuit identification code for the circuit and the remainder to
uniquely identify one otherwise identical ISUP CIC from another.
.PP
For PDH device and pseudo-device drivers, the following is recommended:
the most significant component identifies the device driver; the next
most significant component, the device (card); then next, the span; then
next, the channel group; the least significant, the primary channel.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management input-output controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.IR I_STR (7)
input-output control commands to the
.BR streamio (7)
system calls on the
.I ch_stream
or
.I mx_stream
file descriptors.  These management controls are documented in
.BR ch_ioctl (4)
and
.BR mx_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Unlike other OpenSS7 protocol modules and drivers providing transport
communications services,
.B MATRIX
does not provide a data communications protocol, per se, and therefore
does not provide a
.BR sockets (3)
interface.  This is because the special needs of switch multiplex
control are divorced from the sockets paradigm.  (On the other hand,
they are quite compatable with the
.IR STREAMS (4)
framework.)
.PP
For performance reasons, SS7 and ISDN primary rate signalling channels
were not passed through the software switch matrix.  This permitted
signalling channels to be subject to a different set of flow control
rules and priorities.  SS7 and ISDN primary rate signalling channels
could be dropped and inserted into a channel group directly from the
hardware driver (e.g., V401P driver).  However, the high performance of
Linux Fast-STREAMS has permitted SS7 and ISDN signalling links to be
passed through the switch matrix without performance penalty.
.PP
Drivers providing MX Streams to this MATRIX driver should also support
pseudo-digital or digital cross-connect directly within the driver.
Only when pseudo-digital cross-connect is needed between driver should
this soft switching matrix be used.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.RB < ss7/chi.h >,
.RB < ss7/chi_ioctl.h >,
.RB < ss7/ch_ioctl.h >,
.RB < ss7/mxi.h >,
.RB < ss7/mxi_ioctl.h >,
.RB < ss7/mx_ioctl.h >.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/streams/clone/ch
The clone device for opening upper CH Style 2 Streams.
.TP
.B /dev/streams/ch/ch
The non-clone device for opening upper CH management Streams.
.TP
.B /dev/streams/clone/mx
The clone device for opening upper MX Style 2 Streams.
.TP
.B /dev/streams/mx/mx
The non-clone device for opening upper MX management Streams.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B MATRIX
driver has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mxi (7),
.BR chi (7),
.BR ch (4),
.BR ch-mux (4),
.BR mx (4),
.BR mx-mux (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSION
.PP
The
.B MATRIX
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
channel stack.  This is Version 1 of the driver.
.PP
.B CHI
interfaces are consistent with
.IR "CHI Revision 0.9.2" ,
.[
chi @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.BR chi (7).
.B MXI
interfaces are consistent with
.IR "MXI Revision 0.9.2" ,
.[
mxi @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.BR mxi (7).
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
