'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mfe.4.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:10 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:10 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mfe.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:10  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MFE 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B mfe
\- Multi-Protocol over Frame Relay Encapsulation (MFE) Driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
\fBint\fP \fIifr_stream\fP = \fBopen\fP(\fIifr_device\fP, \fIflags\fP);
.HP
\fBint\fP \fImfe_stream\fP = \fBopen\fP(\fImfe_device\fP, \fIflags\fP);
.HP
\fBint\fP \fIretval\fP = \fBioctl\fP(\fImfe_device\fP, \fRI_LINK\fP, \fIifr_stream\fP);
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Multi-Protocol over Frame Relay Encapsulation, \fBMFE\fP, is a \fISTREAMS\fP
multiplexing driver that provides support for multiple protocols over Frame
Relay WAN connections, in accordance with X.36,
.[
x36
.]
RFC 2427,
.[
rfc2427
.]
and
FRF 3.2.
.[
frf3_2
.]
.PP
The MFE driver may also utility the services of the Frame Relay IMLI.
.PP
\fBMFE\fP is a multiplexing driver.  The upper multiplex service interface is
the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) Revision 2.0.0.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
The MAC Type for this upper multiplex service interface is
.BR DL_MPFRAME .
The lower multiplex service interface is also a DLPI Revision 2.0.0 interface
with MAC Type
.BR DL_FRAME .
Although any DLPI 2 \fBDL_FRAME\fP driver Stream may be linked beneath the
\fBMFE\fP driver, it is expected that
.BR ifr (4)
driver Streams will be used.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
During system initialization, an MFE daemon agent opens the \fBMFE\fP driver
and links a number of Frame Relay LAPF Streams,
.BR ifr (4),
beneath the multiplexing driver using the
.BR I_LINK (7)
.I STREAMS
input-output controls from
.BR streamio (7).
Linking Frame Relay Streams in this fashion associates FR VC or PVC Stream for
use by the \fBMFE\fP driver Stream.
.PP
The linked FR Streams are then configured using the \fBIFR_SNREG\fP input-output
control, described below under \*(lq\fIIOCTLS\fP.\*(rq
.PP
The agent then pushes the
.BR mpfr (4)
module on the open
.B DL_FRAME
DLPI Streams.
.PP
Each Stream configured in this fashion provides an additional Network
interface (virtual NIC) in the native \fBLinux\fP networking subsystem.
.PP
Subsequent actions and use of the Stream are then placed under the control of
native \fBLinux\fP networking.  When the interface is moved to the UP state,
FR VC or PVC will be connected or attached, and protocol packets will begin to
flow across the interface.  When the interface is moved to the DOWN state, FR
VC or PVC will be disconnected or detached, and protocol packets will cease to
flow across the interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B MFE
.I STREAMS
driver was created from publicly available documentation of the driver's
operation, primarily under
.IR IRIS \(rg.
This driver may not function identical to that actually present in any given
Spider Frame Relay or
.IR IRIS \(rg
release.  Because this driver is not normally accessed by user-level programs
and is primarily only involved in lower level system configuration, this should
not be an issue when porting application-level programs from these
environments to \fBLinux\fP.  See \*(lq\fICOMPATIBILITY\fP,\*(rq below, for
specific compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The \fBMFE\fP multiplexing driver defines the input-output controls detailed
in the subsections that follow.
.\"
.SS MFE_SNREG
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/streams/clone/mfe
The \fBMFE\fP driver clone device.
.TP
.BI /dev/streams/mfe/ n
The n'th \fBMFE\fP device protocol.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ifr (4),
.BR ifrdlci (8),
.BR ifrdlciconf (5),
.BR ifrtune (8),
.BR ifrtemplate (5),
.BR mfeproto (8),
.BR mfeprotoconf (5),
.BR mfevc (8),
.BR mfetemplate (5),
.BR pvcmap (8),
.BR lltune (8),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The \fBMFE\fP multiplexing driver is compatible with DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
and implementations based on Spider Frame Relay, such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR Solstice \(rg,
and others, with the following portability considrations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Because this driver is not intended to be accessed by user-level programs and
is primarily involved in lower level system configuration, portable
applications will not access specific input-output controls or other
facilities provided by this driver.  Input-output controls compatibile with
Spider Frame Relay have been provided only to assist in porting applications,
drivers and modules to \fBLinux\fP.  Nevertheless, binary compatibility is not
attempted and input-output controls may function differently under
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
in subtle ways.
.IP \(em
Because system configuration is not standardized, configuration programs tend
to be system-specific.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
attempts to be compatible to the level of the system configuration file and
utilities.
.IP \(em
Under
.IR Solaris \(rg,
the configuration agent daemon is called
.BR x25netd (8).
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
calls this agent
.BR xnetd (8).
.IP \(em
Under
.IR IRIX \(rg,
the configuration agents are called
.BR mfeproto (8)
and
.BR mfevc (8),
as they are int
.BR @PACKAGE_TITLE@ .
.IP \(em
It appears that fields specifying time durations were specified using system
clock ticks by the original Spider Frame Relay.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
uses the system clock agnostic value of milliseconds for these fields instead.
Management software, such as
.BR mfevc (8),
specify these values in seconds or deciseconds.
.IP \(em
The
.BR MFE
driver is provided for compatibility when porting from Spider Frame Relay
based systems to \fBLinux\fP.  Binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any
binary compatibility experienced will likely be changed in the next release.
.PP
For additional compatibility information, see
.BR ifr (4),
.BR ifrdlci (8),
.BR ifrtune (8),
.BR mfeproto (8),
.BR mfevc (8),
.BR pvcmap (8),
.BR lltune (8),
and
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B MFE
driver first appeared in Spider Frame Relay.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package
.RB ( "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" ).
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
