'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man4/mg.4.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH MG 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mg, MG
\- Media Gateway (MG)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/mgi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mgi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " mg_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B MG
is an implementation of a local switching matrix control for devices
conforming to the
.BR mxi (7)
and
.BR chi (7)
interfaces.
.B MG
provides for the control of the switch matrix.
.PP
.B MG
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR mx (4)
or
.BR ch (4)
Streams are linked under the
.B MG
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide multiplex or channel services to
.BR MG .
Once linked, the Streams must be configured using
.BR mgi_ioctl (4).
.PP
.B MG
provides the following Stream types that are directly compatible with the
Stream types provided by other
.BR MG (4)
drivers.  To select one of these Stream types, the
.I device
argument to the
.BR open (2s)
call can be one of the following:
.TP
.I /dev/mg
This device provides the
.B MG
protocol service interface using the MG-primitives of the Media Gateway
Interface descrined in
.BR mgi (7),
as interpreted for use with local switching drivers as descibed in
.BR mgi_mg (7).
This interface is suitable both for use with other SS7 modules and drivers, as
well as with the
.BR cframe (3)
library using the
.B OpenSwitch
call framework.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B MG
driver is the switching workhorse of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package.
.BR mgi (7)
Streams can be opened on the upper multiplex.  Both
.BR mxi (7)
and
.BR chi (7)
Streams can be linked on the lower multiplex.  Any channel of any Stream,
whether upper or lower, can be connected through the matrix to any other
channel.
.PP
The
.B MG
driver can perform simple or complex conversion functions (e.g. mu-law to
a-law), digital padding, echo cancellation, compression/decompression, rate
adaption (e.g., 8-bit A-law to 5-bit GSM), that do or do not cause flow
control considerations.  Preestablished or canned tones and announcments are
supported by the driver.  Dynamic announcements need to be provided by an
external module (using a Stream on the upper or lower multiplex) or in
hardware.
.PP
The
.B MG
driver supports single-rate and multi-rate channels.  It also supports
multi-rate conversion and multiple audio channels per connection leg.  The
purpose of the
.B MG
driver is to perform both simple circuit switching and do it very fast, or to
provide complex conversion and conferencing as efficiently as possible.
.PP
For simply matrix connections, the
.B MG
driver can be modelled as a hardware Time-Space-Time switch, only switching is
performed primarily in software.  Other, more specialized,
.BR mgi (7)
drivers, such as
.BR mgcp (4),
are intended on providing device control.  The
.B MG
driver is a pseudo-device driver and performs switching functions in software.
.\"
.SS Configuration
.PP
At boot time, or when a new span or circuit is brough into service and is to
be switched through the
.B MG
software switching matrix, a management program opens a device or
pseudo-device driver to obtain a Stream representing the new channel or span
and links the Stream beneath the
.B MG
multiplexing driver.  Input-output controls are then used to assign the
channel or span (and timeslots within the span) to channel identification
numbers within the switching matrix.  These channel identification numbers
and the mapping to specific hardware should be maintained in configuration
files.
.PP
For example, when a T1 span is put into service on a
.BR v401p (4)
card, the management program opens a Stream on the
.BR v401p (4)
.BR mxi (7)
device that represents a T1 span, attaches the Stream to the T1 span, and then
links the Stream beneath the
.B MG
driver.  During linking, the
.B MG
driver issues a
.BR MX_INFO_REQ (7)
or
.BR CH_INFO_REQ (7)
primitive downstream to interrogate the Stream as to channel characteristics.
After linking, the management program uses a configuration table to determine
the channel number assignments for the card an T1 span selected.  An
input-output control is issued to the
.B MG
driver with the multiplex index of the linked span, and the channel number
assignments for the span.
The
.B MG
driver provides the ability for management programs to determine the lower
multiplex identifier that is associated with any channel or channel group.
This allows the management program to perform a
.IR I_PLINK (7)
operation and close the Stream: it can then later discover the multiplex
identifier from the channel assignment (contained in the configuration file)
with an input-output control to the
.B MG
driver, so that it knows the multiplex identifier to use to remove the channel
or channel group from service with a
.IR I_PUNLINK (7)
operation.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Unlike other OpenSS7 protocol modules and drivers providing transport
communications services,
.B MG
does not provide a
.BR sockets (3)
interface.  This is because the special needs of switch matrix control are
divorced from the sockets paradigm.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2s)
and
.I I_STR
commands to the
.BR streamio (7)
system calls on the
.I mg_stream
file descriptor.  These management controls are documented in
.BR mg_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/mgi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mgi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mg_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/mg .
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B MG
drivers have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MG (4),
.BR mgconfd (8),
.BR mgi (7),
.BR cframe (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B MG
interface is specific to the
.BR OpenSS7
MG stack.  This is Version 1 of the interface.
.PP
MGI interfaces are consistent with MGI Revision 0.8.2.
.PP
The
.B MG
driver does not appear until
.B strss7
release 0.8.4.
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
