'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MG.4.man,v 1.1.2.3 2011-02-07 02:18:08 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:08 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MG.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.3  2011-02-07 02:18:08  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MG 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B MG
\- OpenSS7 Media Gateway Devices
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int " mg_stream " = open(" mg_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" mg_stream ", " \fRI_PUSH\fI ", " mg_module );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.I OpenSS7
call framework,
.BR cframe (3),
approach to call processing is to separate service logic, call control and
media control into separate interfaces.  This permits service logic, call
control and media control components to be mixed and matched in support of
local and remote nodes.
.PP
The
.IR "Media Gateway" ,
.BR MG ,
components of this model are described here.
The
.B MG
components are responsible for the media control of the triple-headed call
processing model.  To accomodate media control, the
.B OpenSwitch
framework describes interfaces at three levels as follows (beginning from the
uppermost level):
.TP
.BR mgi (7)
.I Media Gateway Interface
is an interface peculiar to the
.B OpenSS7
stack that provides control over Media Gateways using a number of protocols as
provided by some of the drivers listed below.
.TP
.BR mxi (7)
.I Multiplex Interface
is an interface peculiar to the
.B OpenSS7
stack
that provides access to channel multiplexers for use by media gateway
control above.
.TP
.BR chi (7)
.I Channel Interface
is an interface peculiar to the
.B OpenSS7
stack
that provides access to channels for use by channel multiplexers and the
media gateway control above.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.B MG
related collection of drivers and modules provide the Media Gateway control
capabilities in a number of related forms, including local switching, MGCP,
H.248, H.245 and GSM-A variants.
.\"
.\"
.SS DRIVERS
.PP
.B MG
provides the following
.IR STREAMS (4)
pseudo-device drivers:
.TP
.BR mgc (4)
is a pseudo-device driver that provides distributed switching access to other
media gateway devices supporting the Media Gateway Interface,
.BR mxi (7).
This includes both local switching control using the
.BR mg (4)
driver, as well as remote switching control using the
.BR mgcp (4)
and
.BR h248 (4)
drivers.
This driver also provides the cornerstone of redundant media gateway control
in that it permits both local and remote control of media gateways.
.TP
.BR mg (4)
.I Local switching
is a local switching driver that provides media gateway control of local
switching matrices.  This provides
.BR mgi (7)
control of local interface devices.
This supports the linking of streams supporting the
Multiplex Interface,
.BR mxi (7),
and Channel Interface,
.BR chi (7),
such as local device drivers and RTP multiplexes.
.TP
.BR mgcp (4)
.I Media Gateway Control Protocol (MGCP)
is a pseudo-device driver that provides an
.BR mgi (7)
interface for both MG- and MGC-mode nodes, providing media gateway control of
both local and remote media gateways using the MGCP protocol
.TP
.BR h248 (4)
.I MEGACO/H.248
is a pseudo-device driver that provides an
.BR mgi (7)
interface for both MG- and MGC-mode nodes, providing media gateway control of
both local and remote media gateways using the MEGACO protocol.
.TP
.BR mx (4)
.I Local Multiplex
is a local multiplex driver that provides
a Multiplex Interface (MXI),
.BR mxi (7),
adding multiplex support to local channel devices conforming to the Channel
Interface (CHI),
.BR chi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS MODULES
.PP
.B MG
provides the following
.IR STREAMS (4)
pushable modules:
.TP
.BR rtp (4)
.I Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP)
is a pushable module that provides Channel Interface,
.BR chi (7),
interface to RTP streams providing for switching of RTP streams using the
local switching model of the
.BR mg (4)
driver.
.SS DEVICES
.PP
.B MG
provides the following
.IR STREAMS (4)
device drivers:
.TP
.BR x100p (4)
.TP
.BR x400p (4)
.TP
.BR pca200e (4)
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The devices, drivers and modules associated with the MG subsystem change
rapidly and have not yet finalized.  The list presented in this manual page
may be out of date.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/mg .
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
This manual page is incomplete and does not yet contain finalized information.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mg (4).
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
