'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: momod.4.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:34:51 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:34:51 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: momod.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:34:51  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MOMOD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B momod
\- Minimal OSI to ASCE/Presentation Module.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int open(" xti_device ", " o_flags );
.HP
.BI "int ioctl(" xti_stream ", " I_PUSH ", " \*(lqmomod\*(rq );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B momod
is a service interface conversion module that converts betweent the Minimal OSI XTI interface
.[
xns 5.2
.]
described in
.BR xti_mosi (3),
and the ACSE/Presentation Library Interface service primitive interface described in
.BR apli (7).
The purpose of this module is to autopush the module over drivers implementing the
.BR xti_mosi (3)
interface for direct use by the
.BR ap_open (3)
function of the
.BR libapli (3)
or
.BR libxap (3)
libraries.
.PP
In particular, the
.BR lpp (4)
driver implements the Lightweight Presentation Protocol
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B momod
STREAMS module is not normally pushed directly by an XTI-mOSI
client programs, but is either pushed or autopushed as
necessary, either by the OSI network configuration daemon,
.BR osinetd (8),
or the autopush facility,
.BR autopush (8).
Nevertheless, the module may be pushed by clients of sufficient
privilege to acheive specific effects, such as for testing.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The upper service interface for the module is
the Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
as interpreted for XTI-mOSI
.[
xns 5.2
.]
operation,
.BR xti_mosi (3).
The lower service interface for the module is
the Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
as interpreted for OSI
.[
xns 5.2
.]
operation,
.BR xti_osi (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
Addresses consist of an AP-Title,
AE-Qualifier, and Presentation address.  The
Presentation Address (PSAP) consists of a
P-Selector and a TSAP.  The TSAP, in turn,
consists of a T-Selector and an NSAP.  The
NSAP is an OSI network address.
.PP
Addresses are formated as described in
.BR xti_mosi (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Options and option lists are internally
formated as described for XTI in
.BR t_optmgmt (3).
Option name and values are as described in
.BR xti_mosi (3).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH PRIMITIVES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.B momod
does not implement any input-output controls
of its own an passes all received
input-output controls downstream.
.B momod
is intended on being used with the
.BR timod (4)
module when used with the XTI Library,
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.BR xti (3).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH RETURN
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH ERRORS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /lib/modules/striso/streams-momod.ko
provides the
.B momod
STREAMS pushable module named
.RI \(lq momod \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.RB \(lq momod \(rq
.I STREAMS
module.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR apli (7),
.BR ap_open (3),
.BR autopush (8).
.BR libapli (3),
.BR libxap (3),
.BR lpp (4),
.BR osinetd (8),
.BR test-mosi (8),
.BR timod (4),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_mosi (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B xapmod
will be tested with the
.BR test-mosi (8)
test case executable and autotest conformance test suite.
.B momod
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B momod
is compatible with
XTI-mOSI,
.[
xns 5.2
.]
APLI,
.[
apli unix international
.]
XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
and descriptions for
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Other implementations do not document any cooperating module nor
input-output controls.  Portable applications should never use
input-output controls directly.
.IP \(em
Other implementations do not document primitive format between
the library and any cooperating module.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted.  Binary compatibility is
not possible due to the lack of standardized symbolic
constants.  Any binary compatibility experienced is a bug and
is scheduled to be removed on the next release.
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR xti_mosi "(3),
.BR apli "(3),
.BR xap "(3),
.BR oopi "(4),
.BR apmod "(4),
.BR xapmod "(4) and
.BR STREAMS (4)
for additional compatibility information.
.PP
Compatibility will be tested using the
.BR test-mosi (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.PP
Conformance will be tested using the
.BR test-mosi (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B momod
module is new for OpenSS7
.BR "striso version 0.9.2.4" .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 \fBmomod\fP(4) module.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
