'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: np_ip.4.man,v 1.1.2.2 2010-12-02 22:22:43 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2010  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2010-12-02 22:22:43 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: np_ip.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2010-12-02 22:22:43  brian
.\" - regression fix and np_udp driver
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:34:53  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH NP-IP 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B np_ip
\- STREAMS Internet Protocol (IP) Driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netinet/ip.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_ip.h>
.HP 12
.BI "int " ip_stream " = open(" ip_device ", " oflag );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B NPI-IP
pseudo-device
driver provides an interface between
.I STREAMS
drivers and the Linux IP subsystem.  It presents an
.BR npi (7)
Network Provider Interface 
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
to
.I STREAMS
drivers and provides access to the native Linux IP subsystem.
.PP
.B NPI-IP
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
pseudo-device driver and provides the following devices:
.TP
.IR /dev/np_ip ", " /dev/streams/np_ip ", " /dev/streams/clone/np_ip
This devices provides access to the
.B NPI-IP
protocol service interface using the N-primitives of the Network Provider Interface,
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
used for the Internet Protocol as described in
.BR npi_ip (7).
The
.BR npi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR sockets (3)
library and provides the
.B NPI-IP
interface using sockets as described in
.BR npi_ip (7).
This stream provides connectionless, connection-oriented and multiplexed NPI services.
.TP
.IR /dev/ipcl ", " /dev/streams/np_ip/ipcl
This named minor device provides access to the
.B NPI-IP
protocol service interface using the N-primitives of the Network Provider
Interface,
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
used for the Internet Protocol as described in
.BR npi_ip (7).
The
.BR npi (7)
service interface provided on a Stream opening this device uses, by default,
a connectionless protocol.  This is the typical and default service interface
for
.B NPI-IP
Streams.
.TP
.IR /dev/ipco ", " /dev/streams/np_ip/ipco
This device provides access to the
.B NPI-IP
protocol service interface using the N-primitives of the Network Provider
Interface,
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
used for the Internet Protocol as described in
.BR npi_ip (7).
The
.BR npi (7)
service interface provided on a Stream opening this device uses, by default,
a connection-oriented protocol.  This is an atypical service interface for
.B NPI-IP
Streams, but has some specific use for symmetric IP applications.
.RS
.PP
A pseudo-connection-oriented service interface is particularly useful for
symmetric, bidirectional IP applications.  Symmetric, bidirectional IP
applications are those that send from the same transport address for which
they receive and do not wish to receive packets from any remote transport
address other than the one to which they are connected.
.PP
A multi-homed pseudo-connection-oriented service interface is particularly
useful for multi-homed symmetric, bidirectional IP applications.  Multi-homed
applications are those that form connections between a local set of IP
addresses and a remote set of IP addresses, instead of simply between two IP
addresses, as in the single-homed case.
An example of an application that can utilize multi-homed
pseudo-connection-oriented service from IP is the Stream Control Transport
Protocol (SCTP).
.[
rfc4960
.]
.BR sctp (4),
when run over IP.
.RE
.TP
.IR /dev/ipmux ", " /dev/streams/np_ip/ipmux
This device provides access to the
.B NPI-IP
protocol service interface using modified N-primitives of the Network
Provider Interface,
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
used for the User Datagram Protocol as described in
.BR npi_udp (7).
The
.BR npi (7)
service interface provided on a Stream opening this device uses, by default,
a multiplexed protocol.  This is a specialized service interface that
provides for many IP connectionless or connection-oriented instances on the
same Stream.  Each
.BR npi (7)
primitive is tagged with a connection identifier in a word prepended to the
primitive.
.RS
.PP
This device has particular use for large-scale access to the IP subsystem,
where a multiplexing driver does not wish to link an individual IP Stream for
each connection.  Instead, the device may link one NPI-IP multiplexed Stream
and form as many individual and independent connections as desired.  The
device supports both connectionless and pseudo-connection-oriented operation,
as well as multi-homing.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The following entries in
.B /etc/protosw
provides the information necessary for
.BR socksys (4)
to use these devices:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
PF_INET     SOCK_RAW      IPPROTO_IP    /dev/rawip   tpi   clts
PF_INET     SOCK_RAW      IPPROTO_IP    /dev/np_ip   npi   clts
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR socksys (4)
and
.BR protosw (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.BR streamio (7)
.I I_STR
system calls on the
.IR ip_stream ", " ip_xtistr " or " ip_socket .
These management controls are described in
.BR ip_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B NPI-IP
has several implementations.  This manpage is for the
.IR STREAMS (4)
implementation.  There is also an
.BR INET (4)
implementation which provides
.BR tpi (7)
access to the Linux NET4 version of
.BR NPI-IP .
For more information, see
.BR ip (7).
.PP
Note that using
.BR sockets (3)
over
.I STREAMS
for the
.B NPI-IP
driver might be rather inefficient: unless you need to push modules, use a
direct Linux native socket instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The current
.B NPI-IP
pseudo-device driver hook directly into the Linux kernel IP subsystem.
Previous approaches used a STREAMS over Sockets method that was inefficient
and inflexible.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <sys/socket.h> ,
.BR <netinet/ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/xti.h> ,
.BR <sys/xti_ip.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/ip ,
.IR /dev/rawip .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR npi (7),
.BR npi_ip (7),
.BR protosw (5),
.BR ip (7),
.BR ip (8),
.BR ip_ioctl (4),
.BR socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR socksys (4),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR STREAMS (4),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR tpi_ip (7),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_ip (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
The
.B NPI-IP
driver should be merged with the
.BR ip2 (4)
driver so that only one IP hook per protocol id is installed in the Linux IP
subsystem.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.I /dev/rawip
device providing a Transport Provider Interface
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
is roughly compatible with the raw ip TPI streams provided by
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and other
.IR UNIX \(rg
implementations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
While as consistent with the Network Provider Interface as possible, NPI
interfaces to IP services are implementation dependent and are not subject to
standardization.
In particular, the multiplexed NPI interface is non-standard as is only
intended to solve problems associated with internal STREAMS interfaces
between modules and the Linux IP subsystem.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.I STREAMS
access to IP services was originally performed using an STREAMS over Socket
approach using the
.BR INET (4)
pseudo-device driver from the
.I strinet
package.  A more flexible direct implementation was performed using a separate
driver that hooked directly into the Linux IP subsystem, but initially only
provided the user-based Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
interface.  This
Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
interface was provided to
better support stacking protocol modules on top of the IP driver.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T4
