'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: np_rtp.4.man,v 1.1.2.1 2011-01-11 23:40:09 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2010  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-01-11 23:40:09 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: np_rtp.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2011-01-11 23:40:09  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2010-12-02 22:22:44  brian
.\" - regression fix and np_udp driver
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH NP-RTP 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B np_rtp
\- STREAMS Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP) Driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netinet/ip.h>
.br
.B #include <netinet/udp.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_ip.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_udp.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_rtp.h>
.HP 12
.BI "int " rtp_stream " = open(" rtp_device ", " oflag );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B NPI-RTP
pseudo-device
driver provides an interface between
.I STREAMS
drivers and the Linux UDP subsystem in support of Real-Time Transport
Protocol (RTP).
.[
rfc3550
.]
It presents an
.BR npi (7)
Network Provider Interface 
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
to
.I STREAMS
drivers and provides access to the native Linux UDP subsystem for RTP.
.PP
.B NPI-RTP
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
pseudo-device driver and provides the following devices:
.TP
.IR /dev/np_rtp ", " /dev/streams/np_rtp ", " /dev/streams/clone/np_rtp
This device provides access to the
.B NPI-RTP
protocol service interface using the N-primitives of the Network Provider Interface,
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
used for the Real-Time Transport Protocol as described in
.BR npi_rtp (7).
This stream provides connectionless, connection-oriented and multiplexed NPI services.
.TP
.IR /dev/rtpcl ", " /dev/streams/np_rtp/rtpcl
This named minor device provides access to the
.B NPI-RTP
protocol service interface using the N-primitives of the Network Provider
Interface,
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
used for the User Datagram Protocol as described in
.BR npi_rtp (7).
The
.BR npi (7)
service interface provided on a Stream opening this device uses, by default,
a connectionless protocol, but also provides multiplexed NPI services.  This
is the typical and default service interface for
.B NPI-RTP
Streams where early media is required and authorized.
.TP
.IR /dev/rtpco ", " /dev/streams/np_rtp/rtpco
This device provides access to the
.B NPI-RTP
protocol service interface using the N-primitives of the Network Provider
Interface,
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
used for the User Datagram Protocol as described in
.BR npi_rtp (7).
The
.BR npi (7)
service interface provided on a Stream opening this device uses, by default,
a connection-oriented protocol, but also provides multiplexed NPI services.
This is the typical and default service interface for
.B NPI-RTP
Streams where early media is either not required or not authorized.
.PP
A pseudo-connection-oriented service interface is particularly useful for
symmetric, bidirectional UDP applications such as RTP.
.[
bcp131
.]
Symmetric, bidirectional UDP applications are those that send from the same
transport address for which they receive and do not wish to receive packets
from any remote transport address other than the one to which they are
connected.  The best example of an application that can utilize
pseudo-connection-oriented service from UDP is the Real-Time Transport
Protocol (RTP),
.[
rfc3550
.]
where it is being used in symmetric, bidirectional mode.
.[
bcp131
.]
.\"
.PP
The
.B NPI-RTP
driver was developed primarily in support of the
.B "Optranex 10G"
Carrier IP platform.  It was intended to support a large scale deployment of
media forwarding and transcoding at the scale of between 128,000 and 1,024,000
channels on a single server.
.\"
.PP
In addition to the service interface, the
.B NPI-RTP
driver generates an
.BR M_SIG (9)
message and sends it upstream every millisecond as a high-resolution timing
pulse.  This signal can be used by other modules or the application (via the
Stream head) to invoke isosynchronous processing events.  This timing pulse
can be enabled or disabled using an input-output control.  See
.BR rtp_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "INTER-MODULE INTERFACE"
.PP
The
.B NPI-RTP
pseudo-device driver also supports an internal inter-module interface based
on the
.BR M_CTL "(9) and " M_PCCTL (9)
messages, as described in
.BR npi_rtp (7)
under
.I \(lq\)MULTIPLEXED CONNECTIONS.\(rq\)
This inter-module interface provides for large scale implementation of
RTP/RTCP pin-hole gateways and transcoders.
.PP
The
.BR mstr (4)
module can use used to convert between the this internal inter-module
interface and the normal NPI interface based on the
.BR M_PROTO "(9) and " M_PCPROTO (9)
messages.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.BR streamio (7)
.I I_STR
system calls on the
.IR rtp_stream .
These management controls are described in
.BR rtp_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The current
.B NPI-RTP
pseudo-device driver hook directly into the Linux kernel UDP subsystem.
Previous approaches used a STREAMS over Sockets method that was inefficient
and inflexible.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <sys/socket.h> ,
.BR <netinet/ip.h> ,
.BR <netinet/udp.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_udp.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_rtp.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/np_rtp ", " /dev/streams/np_rtp ", " /dev/streams/clone/np_rtp ,
.IR /dev/rtpcl ", " /dev/streams/np_rtp/rtlcl ,
.IR /dev/rtpco ", " /dev/streams/np_rtp/rtpco .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR npi (7),
.BR npi_ip (7),
.BR npi_udp (7),
.BR npi_rtp (7),
.BR ip (7),
.BR ip (8),
.BR ip_ioctl (4),
.BR udp (7),
.BR udp (8),
.BR rtp_ioctl (4),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
The
.B NPI-RTP
driver should be merged with the
.BR udp2 (4)
driver so that only one UDP hook is installed in the Linux IP system.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
While as consistent with the Network Provider Interface as possible, NPI
interfaces to RTP/RTCP services are implementation dependent and are not
subject to standardization.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
While as consistent with the Network Provider Interface as possible, NPI
interfaces to RTP/RTCP services are implementation dependent and are not
subject to standardization.
In particular, the multiplexed NPI interface is non-standard as is only
intended to solve problems associated with internal STREAMS interfaces
between modules and the RTP/RTCP subsystem.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.I STREAMS
access to UDP services was originally performed using an STREAMS over Socket
approach using the
.BR INET (4)
pseudo-device driver from the
.I strinet
package.  A more flexible direct implementation was performed using a separate
driver that hooked directly into the Linux UDP subsystem, but initially only
provided the user-based Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
interface.  The
Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
interface was provided in the
.B NPI-UDP
driver,
.BR np_udp (4),
to better support stacking protocol modules on top of the UDP driver.  The
.B NPI-UDP
driver was modified, made scalable and optimized for large scale RTP
implementation in this
.B NPI-RTP
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
.PP
It might be advantageous to reintegrate this
.B NPI-RTP
driver with the
.BR np_udp (4)
driver.  It would also be advantageous to integrate the
.BR np_udp (4)
driver with the
.BR udp2 (4)
driver.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T4
