'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: otk6.4.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:10 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:10 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: otk6.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:10  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.TH OTK6 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B otk6
\- ISO Transport Protocol RFC 1006
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
STREAMS,
TPI.
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netiso/osi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/xti.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/xti_osi.h>
.HP
.BI "int " rk6_stream " = open(" tp_device ", " oflag );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int " rk6_xtistr " = t_open(" tp_device ", " oflag );
.HP
.BI "int " rk6_socket " = socket(" \fRPF_ISO\fP ", " socket_type ", " \fRISOPROTO_RK6\fP );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B OTK6
is an implementation of ISO over TCP defined in RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
and RFC 2126.
.[
rfc2126
.]
It provides reliable, packet oriented, full duplex connection between two
transport endpoints on top of
.BR tcp (7).
.B OTK6
guarantees that the data arrives in order and retransmits lost packets.  It
generates and checks a per-packet checksum to catch transmission errors.  It
preserves record boundaries.
.PP
.B OTK6
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver using the
.BR ISO (4)
.B striso
package for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
lfs
.]
The
.B striso
package translates the
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR tcp (4)
provided by the
.BR INET (4)
.B strinet
package into TPI
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
streams suitable for use with XTI,
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.[
xns98
.]
see
.BR xti "(3) and " xti_osi (3).
.PP
.B OTK6
provides one TPI connection-oriented ISO Transport Protocol Class 0 or Class 2
stream type with abortive release and optional expedited data.  To select the
stream,
.I rk6_device
can be one of the following:
.TP
.IR /dev/otk6 " or " /dev/streams/otk6
This device provides the ISO Transport Protocol
.[
x225
.]
services using the T-primitives of the Transport Provider Interface,
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR tpi (7),
used for ISO Transport, as described in
.BR tpi_osi (7).
The
.BR tpi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR xnet (3)
or
.BR xti (3)
library and provides ISO Transport using XTI
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.[
xns98
.]
as described in
.BR xti_osi (3).
.PP
.B OTK6
provides one socket type for use by the
.BR sockets (3)
library
.BR socket (7)
calls.
.B OTK6
provides sockets in the protocol family
.BR PF_ISO
using the protocol number
.BR IPPROTO_OSI .
The
.I socket_type
argument can be one of the following:
.TP
.B SOCK_SEQPACKET
.PP
The following entries in /etc/sock2path provides the information for
.BR socksys (4)
to use the device:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
PF_ISO       SOCK_SEQPACKET     ISOPROTO_RK6   /dev/otk6   tpi   cots
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR socksys (4)
and
.BR sock2path (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The primary use for this devices is a functional replacement for the
.IR "Solaris Solstice OSI 9.2" \(rg,
OSI Transport API.
.[
sunlink-tli
.]
This interface is used specifically by ISODE and some other upper-level OSI
applications when running on
.IR Solaris \(rg.
This interface extends the same capabilities to Linux.
.\"
.\"
.SH SERVICE INTERFACE
.PP
The
.B otpi
service interface on the upper multiplex is the Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR tpi (7),
supporting the ISO Transport Service Interface
.[
x214
.]
for the ISOT.
.[
rfc1006
.]
.PP
The
.B opti
service interface on the lower multiplex is the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR npi (7),
supporting the ISO Network Service Inteface.
.[
x213
.]
for ISOT,
.[
rfc1006
.]
but, in general, can be any provider supporting the ISO Network Service Interface.
.[
x213
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
OSI Transport addresses for RFC1006 are in an array of octets where the first
octet is the length,
.IR tsaplen ,
of the TSAP, followed by
.I tsaplen
octets of TSAP, followed by an octet that is the length,
.IR nsaplen ,
of the NSAP, followed by
.I nsaplen
octets of NSAP.
.PP
The TSAP is coded according to OSI Transport conventions and is simply the
T-Selector.  The NSAP is coded according to OSI NSAP conventions for IP
addresses as described in RFC 1277, RFC 1888 and RFC 4548.
.[
rfc1277
.]
.[
rfc1888
.]
.[
rfc4548
.]
The NSAP, according to these documents, consists of an AFI of 34 or 35.  For
AFI 35, the IDI is an ICP (Internet Code Point) which has the value 0000 for
IPv6 or 0001 for IPv4.  The ICP is coded as 4 BCD digits in two octets.  For
IPv5, the ICP is followed by 4 octets representing the binary IPv4 IP address,
and optionally 2 further octets representing the binary port number.
.PP
When the
.I tsaplen
is encoded as zero (0), a null T-Selector is used.  When the
.I nsaplen
is encoded as zero (0), the underlying NS-Provider is to assign an NSAP.  For
responders, the port number will be 102 or 399 depending on whether ISO
Transport Class 0 (TP0) or ISO Transport Class 2 (TP2) operation was requested.
For initiators, the remove port number will be 102 or 399 depending upon
whether ISO Transport Class 0 (TP0) or ISO Transport Class 2 (TP2) operation
was requested.
.PP
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-tli
.]
specifies that the NSAP address passed to
.BR t_bind (3)
is
.RI \(lq rk6 \(rq,
and the NSAP address passed to
.BR t_connect (3)
is a four-byte IP address (in network byte order).
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Although the
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-tli
.]
documentation indicates that there are no XTI/TLI options for the
.B otk6
driver,
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implements both the full set of OSI XTI/TPI options as described in
.BR xti_osi (3)
as well as the full set of TCP and IP options as described in
.BR xti_ip (3)
and
.BR xti_tcp (3).
.PP
When IP and TCP options are used, they are used to control the underlying
TCP/IP network connection used by the
.B otk6
OSI Transport provider.  This allows the user the ability to control some of
the more esoteric recommendations from RFC 1006 and RFC 2126, such as the
setting of keep-alive on the TCP connection.
.PP
When OSI QoS options are used, they are used to negotiate QoS requirements
with the remote OSI Transport provider and user in the same fashion as normal
OSI Transport (e.g. over CONS or CLNS); when OSI management options are used,
they are used to negotiate functional units and protocol options in the same
fashion as described for normal OSI Transport (e.g. over CONS or CLNS): both as
described in
.BR xti_osi (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
.B otk6
does not implement any specialized primitives and implements the Transport
Provider Interface (TPI) Revision 2.0.0
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
at both its upper and lower service interfaces.  At the upper service
interface, the TPI is implemented as required for OSI Transport as described in
.BR tpi_osi (7).
At the lower service interface, the TPI is implemented as required for TCP/IP
Transport as described in
.BR tpi_tcp (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B otk6
driver does not yet support any input-output controls of its own.  The
standards STREAMS input-output controls,
.BR I_LINK "(7), " I_PLINK "(7), " I_UNLINK "(7), " I_PUNLINK (7)
are used by management programs to provision and supply TCP/IP Streams to the
lower multiplex of the driver.  This is accomplished using a control Stream, or
any Stream on the upper multiplex provided that the user has sufficient
privilege.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
This driver does not support RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
operation over UDP.
.PP
This driver does not yet support RFC 2126
.[
rfc2126
.]
ISO Transport Class 2 operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B otk6
provides an auxilliary
.BR M_CTL "(9) and " M_PCCTL (9)
interface at both the upper multiplex and the lower multiplex service
interfaces.  The purpose of these messages is functionally the same as the
.BR M_PROTO "(9) and " M_PCPROTO (9)
messages, and they contain the same TPI service primitives.  The only
difference is that, because the Stream head cannot directly generate a
.BR M_CTL "(9) or " M_PCCTL (9)
message, the receiver of the message is assured that the contents have been
supplied or verified by the sending module.  This permits many checks that are
required for user-supplied information (for security purposes) can bs skipped
for these inter-module messages.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH MODULES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/otk6
This device represents the traditional
.IR SunLink \(rg
.[
sunlink-tli
.]
RFC 1006 OSI Transport device driver.  This device may be directly opened using
.BR t_open (3).
.TP
.B /dev/streams/otk6
When the shadow special file system,
.BR specfs (5),
is mounted, this is the point within the filesystem at which the
.B otk6
device appears.
.TP
.B /dev/streams/clone/otk6
When the shadow special file system,
.BR specfs (5),
is mounted, this is the clone device for opening clone device Streams.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR INET (4),
.BR I_LINK (7),
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR I_PUNLINK (7),
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
.BR M_CTL (9),
.BR M_PCCTL (9),
.BR M_PCPROTO (9),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR npi (7),
.BR ISO (4),
.BR sock2path (5),
.BR socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR socksys (4),
.BR specfs (5),
.BR t_bind (3),
.BR t_connect (3),
.BR tcp (4),
.BR tcp (7),
.BR t_open (3),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR tpi_osi (7),
.BR tpi_tcp (7),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_ip (3),
.BR xti_osi (3),
.BR xti_tcp (3),
.IR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B otk6
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B otk6
is compatible with
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg
.[
sunlink-tli
.]
and implementations based on 
.IR "Solaris SunLink" \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR SunLink \(rg
documents that there are no options associated with the
.B otk6
OSI Transport provider.
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
.B otk6
supports both the TCP/IP options to control the underlying TCP/IP network
connection provider (CONS equivalent) as described in
.BR xti_tcp (3)
and
.BR xti_ip (3),
as well as OSI transport options to
control both ISO Transport QoS and management options associated with OSI
transport described in
.BR xti_osi (3).
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted: only source compatibility.  Any binary
compatibility contained in the package is a bug and is scheduled to be removed
on the next release.  If you want binary compatibility, go buy the
\fISolaris Solstice\fP\(rg product!
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
RFC 983,
.[
rfc983
.]
RFC 1006,
.[
rfc1006
.]
RFC 2126,
.[
rfc2126
.]
RFC 1277,
.[
rfc1277
.]
RFC 1888,
.[
rfc1888
.]
RFC 4548.
.[
rfc4548
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Historically, RFC 1006 and other non-OSI transport drivers were provided
separate from OSI transport drivers.  This was true for both the USL ONP and
BSD ISODE approaches.  However, that separation made it difficult to provide
initiators and responders that provided for both traditional OSI CONS and CLNS
networks as well as RFC 1006 networks.  Therefore, both the USL ONP and BSD
ISODE approaches integrated all networks into the same transport provider.
.PP
.B otk6
for Linux Fast-STREAMS was first released publicly in
.B @PACKAGE@
release 0.9.2.4.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
OSI Stack.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
