'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: pipemod.4.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:34:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:34:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: pipemod.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:34:53  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH PIPEMOD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Modules"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B pipemod
\- \fISTREAMS\fR-based pipe module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 8
.BI "int " pfds[2] ;
.HP 8
.BI "int pipe(" pfds );
.HP 8
.BI "int ioctl(" pfds[0] ", " I_PUSH ", " \*(lqpipemod\*(rq );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B pipemod
is a
.I STREAMS
module that is pushed over one end of a
.IR STREAMS -based
bidirectional
.BR pipe (4)
to reverse the sense of the
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
command.  (See the
.IR I_FLUSH (7)
command to
.BR ioctl (2s)
as described in
.BR streamio (7)).
.PP
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes have a twist in the STREAM at their midpoints.  At their midpoints, the read-side STREAM
becomes the write-side STREAM and visa versa.
As an
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
message traverses the twist, the sense of read-side and write-side must be
reversed within the message (as indicated by the
.BR FLUSHW
and
.BR FLUSHR
flags).
.PP
The reversal of flush flag sense across the twist is not so problematic for the pipe ends (STREAM
heads), as described under
.RI \(lq USAGE ,\(rq
below; however, when modules are pushed on either pipe end, all
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
messages received on the module read-queue will have a flag reversal, causing the module to flush
the wrong side of the STREAM if only
.BR FLUSHR " or only " FLUSHW
are specified.
.PP
.B pipemod
corrects this problem for pushed modules by swapping the read and write side flush flags across the
module.
.B pipemod
should be pushed over one end of the pipe before any other modules are pushed so that the reversal
is performed accross the twist at the midpoint in a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B pipemod
should be pushed over one end of a newly created
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4),
before any other modules are pushed on either end
of the pipe.  This ensures that
.B pipemod
sits at the midpoint of the pipe, the necessary position for reversing the
sense of the
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
message flags.
.PP
On a bare
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4),
with no modules pushed, issuing the
.IR I_FLUSH (7)
command to
.BR ioctl (2s)
with the
.BR FLUSHR
flag will flush the read-side queues at both STREAM heads (pipe ends);
.BR FLUSHW ,
the write-side queues.  Because the STREAM head does not queue on the write-side queue,
.B FLUSHR
has the same effect as
.BR FLUSHRW ,
and
.B FLUSHW
has no effect.
When
.B pipemod
is pushed on a bare pipe,
.B FLUSHR
flushes only the near read-side queue and
.B FLUSHW
flushes only the far read-side queue.  Due to this difference in the STREAM head flushing behaviour
when
.BR pipemod (4)
is pushed or not, it is good practice to always flush pipes with
.BR FLUSHRW .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
It is not necessary to use
.B pipemod
if all flushes flush both read and write queues at the same time, or if the
.I I_FLUSH
command is never issued on the pipe for one side of the STREAM, or the
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
command is never send by a pushed module for one side of the STREAM.
.PP
Note that the STREAM head normally flushes the STREAM on final close of the STREAM.  This flush is
performed on both the read and write side of the STREAM at the same time, so the STREAM head does
not require
.BR pipemod .
.PP
Note that proper canonical
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
processing must be performed by all modules and drivers.
See
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
for details.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following is an example of the
.B s_pipe
function which generates a
.IR STREAMS -based
software pipe and pushes the
.B pipemod
module on one end:
.nf
\fC\s-2
int s_pipe(int fds[2])
{
        int err;
        if ((err = pipe(fds)) != 0)
                return (err);
        if ((err = ioctl(fds[0], I_PUSH, "pipemod")) < 0) {
                close(fds[0]);
                close(fds[1]);
                return (err);
        }
        return (0);
}
\s+2\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.B pipemod
is a
.I STREAMS
module named
.IR \*(lqpipemod\*(rq .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR pipe (2s),
.BR spx (4),
.BR pipe (4),
.BR sfx (4),
.BR fifo (4),
.BR I_FLUSH (7),
.BR M_FLUSH (9),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR streamio (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B pipemod
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B pipemod
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR MacOT \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Not all implementations of
.I SVR 4.2 STREAMS
support
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes.  Those that do, provide the
.BR pipemod (4)
module.
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR 4.2,
.[
svr42
.]
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3.
.[
susv3
.]
Conformance is verified using the
.BR test-pipemod (8)
verification test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B pipemod
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
