'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: s_cdi.4.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:34:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:34:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: s_cdi.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:34:53  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH S_CDI 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B s_cdi
\- SpiderWAN to CDI Conversion Module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <uinstd.h>
.br
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP 12
\fIwan_stream\fP = \fBopen\fP(\fIwan_driver\fP, O_RDWR);
.HP
\fIretval\fP = \fBioctl\fP(\fIwan_stream\fP, I_PUSH, \*(lq\fBs_cdi\fP\*(rq);
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
and most OpenSS7 packages, utilize the Communications Device Interface (CDI),
.[
cdi revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.BR cdi (7),
as an interface to WAN devices.  However, due to the widespread use in the
1990's of systems deploying SpiderWAN, SpiderX.25
.[
spiderx25wan
.]
and SpiderISDN
.[
spiderisdnwan
.]
a number of applications programs, as well as \fISTREAMS\fP(9) drivers and
modules may have been written to provide these interfaces.  Therefore, to
provide compatibility between the OpenSS7 CDI implementations of applications
and user modules or drivers expecting a CDI interface, the \fBS_CDI\fP module
was developed to provide source compatibility with these modules or drivers.
.PP
The \fBS_CDI\fP module is a pushable \fISTREAMS\fP(9) module that performs
conversion between the Spider
.IR "Wide Area Network (WAN)" ,
.[
spiderx25wan
.]
interface at the lower service interface, and the
.IR "Communications Device Interface (CDI)" ,
.[
cdi revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.BR cdi (7),
at the upper service interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B S_CDI
is not normally pushed by user applications.  Rather, it is pushed as necessary
by OpenSS7 stack configuration programs or as part of an extended interface for
a WAN device driver using an
.BR autopush (8)
specification in configuration files, or an
.BR autopush (9)
specification within the device driver itself.
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
.B S_CDI
accepts and issues Communications Device Interface (CDI),
.[
cdi revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.BR cdi (7),
service primitives at its upper service interface boundary.
.B S_CDI
accepts and issues Wide Area Network (WAN) Interface,
.[
wan @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.BR wan (7),
services primitives at its lower service interface boundary.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
While the underlying driver should support the WAN input-output controls
described under
.BR wan (7),
the
.B S_CDI
module also supports CDI input-output controls described for the OpenSS7
Project drivers under
.BR cdi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The Spider Wide Area Network (WAN) interface is a proprietary interface without
a \fIformal\fP standard (although its widespread use makes it an \fIipso
facto\fP standard).  Either the Communications Device Interface (CDI),
.[
cdi revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.BR cdi (7),
or the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
should be used in its stead.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.TP
.B s_cdi
The pushable
.IR STREAMS (9)
module named \*(lq\fBs_cdi\fP\*(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B S_CDI
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR cdi (7),
.BR autopush (8),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B S_CDI
is compatible with the Spider WAN interface,
.[
wan @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
and implementations based on 
.IR SpiderWAN ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.IR "HP-UX X.25" ,
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.IR "PT X.25" , 
.IR "SBE X.25" , 
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
and others,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Although the
.BR wan (7)
interface is an \fiipso facto\fP standard, it should not be used by portable
programs.  The Open Group Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
should be used in its stead.
.IP \(em
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
attempts to maintain
.I source compatibility
with the core features provided by most implementations, but compatibility with
all features of all implementations is not possible.  Your mileage may vary.
.RS
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides a core
.I source compatible
implementation of the Spider WAN interface as described in OpenSS7 project
documentation,
.[
wan @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
for the purpose of porting legacy WAN applications, drivers and modules to
.B Linux
with a minimal porting effort.  While
.I source compatibility
with core features is attempted,
.I binary compatibility
is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced could be broken in a
subsequent release.
.PP
New applications should use the Communications Device Interface (CDI),
.[
cdi revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.BR cdi (7),
instead.
.RE
.PP
For additional compatibility information, see
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR cdi (7),
.BR wan (7),
.BR cdi (4),
.BR wan (4),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
CDI,
.[
cdi revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
WAN.
.[
wan @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B S_CDI
module first appears in OpenSS7
.BR strx25-0.9.2.1 .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package
.RB ( "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" ).
.PP
This version of the
.B S_CDI
module was developed for the OpenSS7 Project, and included in the
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
