'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: s_dlpi.4.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: s_dlpi.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:11  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH S_DLPI 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B s_dlpi
\- SpiderWAN to DLPI Conversion Module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <uinstd.h>
.br
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP 12
\fIlli_stream\fP = \fBopen\fP(\fIlli_driver\fP, O_RDWR);
.HP
\fIretval\fP = \fBioctl\fP(\fIlli_stream\fP, I_PUSH, \*(lq\fBs_dlpi\fP\*(rq);
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
and most OpenSS7 packages, utilize the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
as an interface to LLI devices.  However, due to the widespread use in the 1990's of systems
deploying SpiderWAN, SpiderX.25
.[
spiderx25
.]
and SpiderISDN
.[
spiderisdn
.]
a number of applications programs, as well as \fISTREAMS\fP(9) drivers and modules may have been
written to provide these interfaces.  Therefore, to provide compatibility between the OpenSS7 DLPI
implementations of applications and user modules or drivers expecting a DLPI interface, the
\fBS_DLPI\fP module was developed to provide source compatibility with these modules or drivers.
.PP
The \fBS_DLPI\fP module is a pushable \fISTREAMS\fP(9) module that performs
conversion between the Spider
.IR "Link Layer Interface (LLI)" ,
.[
lli @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
interface at the lower service interface, and the
.IR "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)" ,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
at the upper service interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
This is a pushable module that converts between the Link Layer Interface
(LLI),
.[
lli @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.BR lli (7),
and the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR dlpi (7).
It is typically pushed over a device or pseudo-device
.I STREAMS
driver that implements the
.BR lli (7)
interface at its upper service interface.  An example of such a driver is the
.BR x25-lapb (4)
device driver.
.PP
The
.B S_DLPI
module is not normally pushed by the user, but is configured using the
.BR autopush (8)
mechanism, or is pushed by a configuration deamon during the process of
linking a protocol stack (such as the OSI DL).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The Spider Link Layer Interface (LLI) is, to some degree, a proprietary
interface without a \fIformal\fP standard (although its widespread use makes
it an \fIipso facto\fP standard).
The Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
should be used in its stead.
This module provides the conversion necessary to accomplish that.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.B S_DLPI
is a
.I STREAMS
module named
.RI \*(lq s_dlpi \*(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B S_DLPI
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR lli (7),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR X25 (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B S_DLPI
is compatible with
.IR AIXlink/X.25 ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX X.25/9000" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "SunLink X.25" ,
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25dg
.]
and systems based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Not all implementations specify or utilize this module.
.IP \(em
Some implementations bundle this module in with the OSI protocol suite rather
than the X.25 protocol suite.
.IP \(em
For portability, this module should always be used instead of using the NLI
interface directly.
.PP
See
.BR X25 (4)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR DLPI ,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.IR LLI .
.[
lli @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR S_DLPI
first appeared in
.IR "SpiderX25" .
Its use, however, was only evident in the
.IR AIXlink/X25
.[
aixx25
.]
product from IBM.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package
.RB ( "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" ).
.PP
The upper service interface conforms to Revision 2.0.0 of the
.IR "Data Link Provider Interface " ( DLPI ),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR dlpi (7).
The lower service interface conforms to Version 3 of the
.IR "Link Layer Interface " ( LLI ),
.[
lli @PACKAGE_VERSION@
.]
.BR lli (7).
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
