'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: s_wan.4.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: s_wan.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:11  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH S_WAN 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B s_wan
\- SpiderWAN compatibility \fISTREAMS\fP(9) module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP 12
\fIcdi_stream\fP = \fBopen\fP(\fIcdi_device\fP, O_RDWR);
.HP
\fIretval\fP = \fBioctl\fP(\fIcdi_stream\fP, I_PUSH, \*(lq\fBs_wan\fP\*(rq);
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
and most OpenSS7 packages, utilize the Communications Device Interface (CDI),
.[
cdi revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR cdi (7),
or Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
as an interface to WAN devices.  However, due to the widespread use in the 1990's of systems
deploying SpiderWAN, SpiderX.25
.[
spiderx25wan
.]
and SpiderISDN,
.[
spiderisdnwan
.]
a number of applications programs, as well as \fISTREAMS\fP(9) drivers and modules may
have been written to these interfaces.  Therefore, to provide compatibility
between the OpenSS7 CDI and DLPI implementations of WAN devices and applications,
modules or drivers expecting a SpiderWAN interface, the \fBS_WAN\fP module was
developed to provide source compatibility with these programs.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
This module is not normaly used directly by user applications: it is normally
used by agents or daemons responsible for configuring the X.25 protocol
suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
When the \fBs_wan\fP module is pushed, the
.BR cdi (7)
service interface is converted to be (source) compatible with the Spider WAN
service interface, see \*(lq\fICOMPATIBILITY\fP,\*(rq below.
Declarations of structures and symbolic constants necessary for this service
interface are contained in the
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/sys/wan_proto.h
header file.
The SpiderWAN (source) compatible service primitive interface is as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct WAN_primitives {
    uint8_t wan_type;
    struct wan_sid wsid;
    struct wan_reg wreg;
    struct wan_ctl wctl;
    struct wan_msg wmsg;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS WAN_SID
.PP
Requests that the WAN driver assign the specified subnetwork identifier to the
Stream and associate the Stream with the underlying device identified by the
subnetwork identifier.
This primitive is equivalent to the
.BR CD_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive of the
.BR cdi (7),
and the
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive of the
.BR dlpi (7).
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct wan_sid {
    uint8_t wan_type;
    uint8_t wan_spare[3];
    uint32_t wan_snid;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIwan_remaddr\fP\(em'u
.I wan_type
Always \fBWAN_SID\fP.
.TP
.I wan_spare
Spare bytes for alignment, ignored by responder and set to zero by initiator.
.TP
.I wan_snid
Conveys the subnetwork identifier.
Equivalent to the Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) of the WAN interface.
.PP
Should an error condition occur, an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message is sent upstream with an appropriate error code, resulting in the
failure of all system calls on the Stream until closed.
The \fBWAN_SID\fP primitive may fail when:
.TP \w'[\fBENODEV\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ ENODEV ]
The \fIwan_snid\fP member is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The \fBM_PROTO\fP(9) message block is of an incorrect length for the
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ EEXIST ]
The \fIwan_snid\fP specified is in use by another Stream.
.TP
.RB [ ERANGE ]
The \fIwan_snid\fP member contains invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
The a physical channel referenced by the \fIwan_snid\fP is in use by another
Stream.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
The \fBs_wan\fP module, or underlying CDI or DLPI driver lacks the STREAMS resources
necessary to satisfy the request.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
The \fBWAN_SID\fP primitive was issued from an incorrect state.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
The underlying device driver has encountered a fatal error.
.\"
.SS WAN_REG
.PP
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct wan_reg {
    uint8_t wan_type;
    uint8_t wan_spare[3];
    uint32_t wan_snid;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIwan_remaddr\fP\(em'u
.I wan_type
Always \fBWAN_REG\fP.
.TP
.I wan_spare
Spare bytes for alignment, ignored by responder and set to zero by initiator.
.TP
.I wan_snid
Conveys the subnetwork identifier.
.\"
.SS WAN_CTL
.PP
The primitive class consists of four primitives used to enable or disable the
WAN interface.  These primitives are equivalent to the
.BR CD_ENABLE_REQ (7),
.BR CD_ENABLE_CON (7),
.BR CD_DISABLE_REQ (7),
.BR CD_DISABLE_CON (7)
and
.BR CD_ERROR_IND (7)
primitives of the
.BR cdi (7),
and the
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ (7),
.BR DL_CONNECT_CON (7),
.BR DL_CONNECT_RES (7),
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7),
.BR DL_DISCONNECT_REQ (7),
and
.BR DL_DISCONNECT_IND (7),
primitives of the
.BR dlpi (7).
.PP
The
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is structured as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct wan_ctl {
    uint8_t wan_type;
    uint8_t wan_command;
    uint8_t wan_remtype;
    uint8_t wan_remsize;
    uint8_t wan_remaddr[20];
    uint8_t wan_status;
    uint8_t wan_diag;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIwan_remaddr\fP\(em'u
.I wan_type
Always \fBWAN_CTL\fP.
.TP
.I wan_command
Conveys the WAN command.  This may be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBWC_CONNECT\fP\(em'u
.B WC_CONNECT
This command is valid when sent from the WAN user to the WAN provider; or from
the WAN provider to the WAN user.
.RS
.PP
When sent from the WAN user, the primitive corresponds to the
.BR CD_ENABLE_REQ (7)
primitive of the
.BR cdi (7),
and the
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ (7)
primitive of the
.BR dlpi (7).
.PP
When sent from the WAN provider, the primitive
has no corresponding primitive in the
.BR cdi (7),
and corresponds to the
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7)
primitive of the
.BR dlpi (7).
.PP
Fields \fIwan_remtype\fP, \fIwan_remsize\fP and \fIwan_remaddr\fP are
significant, \fIwan_status\fP and \fIwan_diag\fP are ignored.
.RE
.TP
.B WC_CONCNF
This command is valid when sent from the WAN provider to the WAN user; or from
the WAN user to the WAN provider.
.RS
.PP
When sent from the WAN provider, the primitive corresponds to the
.BR CD_ENABLE_CON (7)
primitive of the
.BR cdi (7),
and the
.BR DL_CONNECT_CON (7)
primitive of the
.BR dlpi (7).
.PP
When sent from the WAN user, the primitive has no corresponding primitive in
the
.BR cdi (7),
and corresponds to the
.BR DL_CONNECT_RES (7)
pirmitive of the
.BR dlpi (7).
.PP
Fields \fIwan_status\fP and \fIwan_diag\fP are significant, \fIwan_remtype\fP,
\fIwan_remsize\fP and \fIwan_remaddr\fP are ignored.
.RE
.TP
.B WC_DISC
This command is valid when sent from the WAN user to the WAN provider; or from
the WAN provider to the WAN user.
.RS
.PP
When sent from the WAN user to the WAN provider, the primitive corresponds to
the
.BR CD_DISABLE_REQ (7)
primtiive of the
.BR cdi (7),
and the
.BR DL_DISCONNECT_REQ (7)
primitive of the
.BR dlpi (7).
.PP
When sent from the WAN provider to the WAN user, the primitive corresponds to
the
.BR CD_ERROR_IND (7)
primitive of the
.BR cdi (7),
and the
.BR DL_DISCONNECT_IND (7)
primitive of the
.BR dlpi (7).
.PP
All fields are ignored.
.RE
.TP
.B WC_DISCCNF
This command is valid when sent from the WAN provider to the WAN user; or from
the WAN user to the WAN provider.
.RS
.PP
When sent from the WAN provider to the WAN user, this primitive corresponds to
the
.BR CD_DISABLE_CON (7)
primitive of the
.BR cdi (7),
and has no corresponding primitive in the
.BR dlpi (7).
.PP
When sent from the WAN user to the WAN provider, this primitive has no
corresponding primitive in the
.BR cdi (7),
and corresponds to the
.BR DL_DISCONNECT_REQ (7)
primitive of the
.BR dlpi (7).
.PP
Fields \fIwan_status\fP and \fIwan_diag\fP are significant, \fIwan_remtype\fP,
\fIwan_remsize\fP and \fIwan_remaddr\fP are ignored.
.RE
.RE
.TP
.I wan_remtype
When significant, conveys the type of the remote address.  This field may have
one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBWAN_TYPE_ASC\fP\(em'u
.B WAN_TYPE_ASC
The remote address contained in the \fIwan_remaddr\fP field consists of ASCII
characters and the length field, \fIwan_remsize\fP, conveys the length of the
ASCII address in characters (octets).
.TP
.B WAN_TYPE_BCD
The remote address contained in the \fIwan_remaddr\fP field consists of BCD
encoded digits and the length field, \fIwan_remsize\fP, conveys the length of
the BCD address in digits (semi-octets).
.PP
This field is only significant in the \fBWAN_CONNECT\fP primitive.
.RE
.TP
.I wan_remsize
When significant, conveys the size of the remote address field,
\fIwan_remaddr\fP, in digits.  Depending on the value of the \fIwan_remtype\fP
field, this may either be octets or semi-octets.
This field is only significant in the \fBWAN_CONNECT\fP primitive.
.TP
.I wan_remaddr
When significant, conveys the remote address.  The address contained in this
field is either represented as ASCII digits or BCD encoded digits, depending on
the value of the \fIwan_remtype\fP field.
This field is only significant in the \fBWAN_CONNECT\fP primitive.
.TP
.I wan_status
When significant, provides the status for the \fBWC_CONCNF\fP or
\fBWC_DISCCNF\fP command.  This field can have one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBWAN_SUCCESS\fP\(em'u
.B WAN_FAIL
The preceding \fBWC_CONNECT\fP or \fBWC_DISC\fP command was unsuccessful.  The
link remains disconnected or connected as the case may be.
.TP
.B WAN_SUCCESS
The preceding \fBWC_CONNECT\fP or \fBWC_DISC\fP command was successful.  The
link moves to the connected or disconnected state as the case may be.
.PP
This field is only significant in the \fBWC_CONCNF\fP and \fBWC_DISCCNF\fP
primitives.
.RE
.TP
.I wan_diag
When significant and the status field is \fBWAN_FAIL\fP, provides diagnostic
information concerning the failure.
This field is only significant in the \fBWC_CONCNF\fP and \fBWC_DISCCNF\fP
primitives when failure is indicated.
.\"
.SS WAN_DAT
.PP
This primitive class provides two primitives for the transfer of data across
the service interface.  Attached
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks contain user data.
These primitives are equivalent to the
.BR CD_UNITDATA_REQ "(7) and " CD_UNITDATA_IND (7)
primitives of the
.BR cdi (7).
.PP
The
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is structured as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct wan_msg {
    uint8_t wan_type;
    uint8_t wan_command;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIwan_remaddr\fP\(em'u
.I wan_type
Always \fBWAN_DAT\fP.
.TP
.I wan_command
Conveys the WAN command.  This may be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B WC_TX
Specifies that the user data in the associated
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block consists of data for transmission.
This primitive is equivalent to the
.BR CD_UNITDATA_REQ (7)
primitive of the
.BR cdi (7),
and the
.BR DL_UNITDATA_REQ (7)
primitive of the
.BR dlpi (7).
This primitive is issued by the WAN interface user.
.TP
.B WC_RX
Indicates that the user data in the associated
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block consists of received data.
This primitive is equivalent to the
.BR CD_UNITDATA_IND (7)
primitive of the
.BR cdi (7),
and the
.BR DL_UNITDATA_IND (7)
primitive of the
.BR dlpi (7).
This primitive is issued by the WAN interface provider.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IOCTLS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The Spider Wide Area Network (WAN) interface is a proprietary interface without
a \fIformal\fP standard (although its widespread use makes it an \fIipso
facto\fP standard).  Either the Communications Device Interface (CDI),
.[
cdi revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR cdi (7),
or the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
should be used in its stead.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.B S_WAN
is a
.I STREAMS
module named
.RI \*(lq s_wan \*(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B S_WAN
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR wantune (8),
.BR wanmap (8),
.BR wantemplate (5),
.BR wanmapconf (5),
.BR wan (4),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B S_WAN
is compatible with
CDI,
.[
cdi revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
SpiderWAN,
.[
spiderx25wan
.]
.[
spiderisdnwan
.]
and implementations based on SpiderWAN, such as
.IR AIXlink/X.25 \(rg,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX X.25/9000" \(rg,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" \(rg,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT WAN" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "SunLink X.25" \(rg,
.[
solx25dg
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" \(rg,
.[
solx25pg
.]
and others, with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Not all implementations specify or utilize this module.
.IP \(em
Only source compatibility with SpiderWAN is attempted.  Binary compatibility
is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced may change in a future
release.
.IP \(em
For portability, this module should always be used instead of using the WAN
interface directly.
.PP
See
.BR X25 (4)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR "CDI Revision 0.9.2" ,
.[
cdi revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR "DLPI Revision 2.0.0" ,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.IR AIXlink/X.25 \(rg,
.[
aixlink
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" \(rg,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" \(rg,
.[
solx25pg
.]
.IR "PT WAN" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B s_wan
module first appeared in page
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ", version " "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" .
The interface to which it is compatible first appeared in SpiderWAN releases as early as 1993.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package
.RB ( "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" ).
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
