'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man4/sdl_udp.4.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.TH SDL_UDP 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH "NAME"
sdl_udp \- SDL emulation using User Datagram Protocol (UDP)
.\"
.\"
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.B #include <sys/streams.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdli.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " fd " = open(" /dev/ss7-sdl-udp0 ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " ret " = ioctl(" fd ", " cmd ", ... /* " arg " */ );"
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
SDL_UDP emulates a Signalling Data Link using a Linux kernel UDP socket to
emulate the physical communications channel.  Because a UDP communications
channel does not exhibit the lower level characteristics of a real
communications data link, and because certain line conditions (such as loss of
sychronization with flags) are not applicable to the emulation, the emulation
is not complete.
.PP
The purpose of the SDL_UDP is to provide sufficient simulation of a real
signalling link to permit testing and experimentation with the \fIOpenSS7\fR
protocol stack.  SDL_UDP permits quick and easy configuration of simulated
signalling links between multiple hosts and permits the formation of
complicated networks over an Ethernet LAN.
.PP
In every other respect, SDL_UDP is equivalent to a real Signalling Data Link
device driver and can be configured and used in conjunction with the other
modules and protocol layers within the \fIOpenSS7\fR stack just as any other
SDLI driver.
.\"
.SS "STREAMS Interfaces"
.PP
The STREAMS interface provided by the SDL_UDP driver conforms to the
Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI) as detailed in \fBsdli\fR(7), the
Local Management Interface (LMI) as detailed in \fBlmi\fR(7) and the Device
Control Interface (DEVI) as detail in \fBdevi\fR(7).
.\"
.SS "Module"
.PP
SDL_UDP is provided by the \fIstreams-sdl-udp\fR kernel module.
This module and modules upon which it depends is automatically loaded when
the \fI/dev/ss7-sdl-udp0\fR device is opened in a properly configured system.
There should be an entry in the \fI/etc/conf.modules\fR or
\fI/etc/modules.conf\fR file such as:
.sp
.RS
.nf
alias char-major-252 streams-sdl-udp # driver ss7 sdl udp
.fi
.RE
.PP
Where \fI252\fR is the character device major number of the
\fI/dev/ss7-sdl-udp0\fR device special file.
.PP
The \fIstreams-sdl-udp\fR module is compatible with \fIOpenSS7\fR upper layer
modules and can push the \fIstreams-sdt\fR and \fIstreams-sl\fR modules.
.\"
.SS "Operation"
.PP
SDL_UDP is a Signalling Data Link Interface \fBsdli\fR(7) compliant driver
which emulates an SS7 signalling link using Linux UDP sockets.  It includes
traffic shaping algorithms which limit the effective ABR to a user-specified
rate.  Because the driver is unable to detect frame errors, signal unit and
framing errors will never be reported to the SUERM/AERM or EIM.  Recommended
traffic shaping rates are 56 kbps, 64 kbps, 1.544 Mbps and 2.0 Mbps.  The
driver uses FISU/LSSU compression schemes on both sides of the connection to
avoid sending duplicate FISU/LSSUs except in two cases: LSSU SIB are always
sent when requested, and the first two LSSU SINs or SIEs are sent to trigger
movement of the L2 state machines from proving to alignment.
.\"
.\"
.SH "PROTOCOL INTERFACE"
.PP
SDL_UDP supports the Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI) as detailed in
\fBsdli\fR(7).
SDL_UDP supports both \fBM_PROTO\fR and \fBM_PCPROTO\fR requests and
indications using the \fBputmsg\fR(2s) and \fBgetmsg\fR(2s) system calls.
.\"
.SS "Configuration"
.PP
SDL_UDP supports all protocol variants and options.  Line based errors case
will not be reported (because they are not reported to the UDP socket unless
it represents socket failure).  Level 2 state machines are left repsonsible to
determine whether packets have been mis-sequenced or lost.
.PP
Because SDL_UDP does not perform line synchronization, the setting of \fIN\fR
(the number of octets per SU during octet-counting mode) has no effect on
state machine operation.  The setting of \fIm\fR (the maximum SIF size) is
respected as long as it is less than the MTU of the UDP socket.
.\"
.SS "State"
.PP
As it does not monitor line sychnronization, SDL_UDP will never enter
octet-counting mode.
.\"
.SS "Statistics"
.PP
Because SDL_UDP only emulates the line, some statistics with respect to line
synchronization and errors will not be pegged.
.\"
.SS "Primitives"
.PP
SDL_UDP supports the complete set of Protocol Service Primitives which are
described in detail in \fBsdli\fR(7).
.\"
.\"
.SH "LOCAL MANAGEMENT INTERFACE"
.PP
SDL_UDP supports the Local Management Interface (LMI) as detailed in
\fBlmi\fR(7).  SDL_UDP supports both \fBM_PROTO\fR and \fBM_PCPROTO\fR requests
and indications using the \fBputmsg\fR(2s) and \fBgetmsg\fR(2s) system calls.
.\"
.SS "PPA Addressing"
.PP
SDL_UDP is a \fIStyle 2\fR driver which must be attached to a
communications channel before it is enabled.
The format of the Point of Physical Appearance (PPA) address is a pair of IP
addresses and port numbers which form a local and a remote UDP address in a
structure such as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
typedef struct ppa {
    struct sockaddr_in loc;
    struct sockaddr_in rem;
} ppa_t;
.fi
.RE
.PP
Local and remote addresses are established by using this PPA address in the
\fBLMI_ATTACH_REQ\fR for a \fIStyle 2\fR driver as documented in \fBlmi\fR(7).
This PPA address will also be returned in response to a \fBLMI_INFO_REQ\fR
request.
.PP
The local address and port and the remote address and port must be agreed upon
by both sides of the connection through some other mechanism (i.e, static
configuration, management system).  The local side of the connection will be
prepared to both transmit and recieve packets starting after the
\fBLMI_ENABLE_REQ\fR has been confirmed.
.\"
.SS "Errors"
.PP
The only Local Management Interface errors which are reported by SDL_UDP are
as follows:
.TP
.B LMI_BADPPA
.TP
.B LMI_INITFAILED
.\"
.\"
.SH "DEVICE CONTROL INTERFACE"
.PP
SDL_UDP supports the Device Control Interface (DEVI) as detail in
\fBdevi\fR(7).  SDL_UDP only supports \fBI_STR\fR IOCTLs as
described in \fBstreamio\fR(7) and does not support transparent IOCTLs.
.\"
.SS "IOCTLS"
.PP
The
following DEVI IOCTLs are applicable to SDL_UDP:
.TP
.BR DEV_IOCGIFTYPE ", " DEV_IOCSIFTYPE
Gets or sets the interface type.  Only the \fBDEV_TYPE_PACKET\fR interface
type is valid for SDL_UDP.
.TP
.BR DEV_IOCGGRPTYPE ", " DEV_IOCSGRPTYPE
Gets or sets the interface group type.  Only the \fBDEV_GTYPE_UDP\fR interface
group type is valid for SDL_UDP.
.TP
.BR DEV_IOCGIFMODE ", " DEV_IOCSIFMODE
Gets or sets the interface mode.  Only the \fBDEV_GTYPE_PEER\fR interface mode
is valid for SDL_UDP.
.TP
.BR DEV_IOCGIFRATE ", " DEV_IOCSIFRATE
Gets or sets the interface rate.  SDL_UDP accepts bit rates in the
range from \fI800\fR bps to \fI10\fR Mbps.  The default rate is \fI1.544\fR
Mbps.  Changing the interface rate changes traffic shaper parameters to effect
the new shaped effective bit rate.
.TP
.BR DEV_IOCGIFCLOCK ", " DEV_IOCSIFCLOCK
Gets or sets the interface clocking.  Only the \fBDEV_CLOCK_SHAPER\fR
interface clocking is valid for SDL_UDP.
.TP
.BR DEV_IOCGIFCODING ", " DEV_IOCSIFCODING
Gets or sets the interface bit coding.  Only the \fBDEV_CODING_NONE\fR
interface bit coding is valid for SDL_UDP.
.TP
.BR DEV_IOCGIFLEADS ", " DEV_IOCSIFLEADS ", " DEV_IOCCIFLEADS
Gets or sets the interface leads.  These controls have no effect on SDL_UDP.
.TP
.BR DEV_IOCCDISCTX ", " DEV_IOCCCONNTX
Disconnects or connects the transmit path.  For SDL_UDP this merely
suppresses and reestablishes the delivery of packets and does not perform a
shutdown on the write side of the Linux UDP socket.
.TP
.B DEV_PRIVATE
There are no device private IOCTLs for SDL_UDP.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH "ERROR HANDLING"
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "CAVEATS"
.PP
SDL_UDP was never intended to be used as, or in conjunction with, a real SS7
signalling network.  It is intended for laboratory use and experimentation
only.  SDL_UDP makes no attempt to perform all of the Level 2 functions of
SS7.  It is mostly intended as a simple way of providing a large number of
L2 links for testing upper level protocol modules (such as MTP).
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/sdl-udp .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR devi (7),
.BR getmsg (2s),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR lmi (7),
.BR mtpi (7),
.BR putmsg (2s),
.BR read (2s),
.BR sdti (7),
.BR sl (8),
.BR sl (8),
.BR sli (7),
.BR slsi (7),
.BR ss7d (8),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR write (2s)
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
No known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
Brian F. G. Bidulock, <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\"
.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
This STREAMS interface for SS7 is an original part of the \fIOpenSS7\fR package.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q702
.]
.[
q703
.]
.[
q704
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
