'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sdl_ioctl.4.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sdl_ioctl.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:11  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH SDL-IOCTL 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sdl_ioctl
\- common IO controls for SDL devices
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/lmi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdli.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "struct strioctl *" arg ;
.HP
.BI "int " sdl_stream " = open(" \fR\*(lq/dev/sdl\*(rq\fI ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" sdl_stream ", " \fRI_STR\fP ", " arg );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
All devices that support the Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI),
.[
sdli
.]
.BR sdli (7),
provide the set of Local Management Interface (LMI),
.[
lmi
.]
.BR lmi (7),
input-output controls, as described generally in
.BR lmi_ioctl (4).
These input-output controls are tailored for use with the SDLI and use the
.BR ioctl (2s)
and
.B I_STR
command to the
.BR streamio (7)
system call on a file descriptor corresponding to the local management
interface of the managed device.
.SS Configuration
.PP
Configuration management input-output controls use the
.B sdl_config
structure defined in
.IR <ss7/sdl_ioctl.h> .
The
.B sdl_config
structure contains the following members:
.TP \w'\fIifblksize\(em\(em'u
.I ifname
interface name
.TP
.I ifflags
interface flags
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_IF_TX_RUNNING\(em'u
.B SDL_IF_UP
up.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_IF_RX_RUNNING
actively receiving messages.
.TP
.B SDL_IF_TX_RUNNING
actively transmitting messages.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I iftype
interface type
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_IF_TX_RUNNING\(em'u
.B SDL_TYPE_NONE
unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_TYPE_V35
V.35 interface.
.TP
.B SDL_TYPE_DS0
DS0 interface.
.TP
.B SDL_TYPE_DS0A
DS0a interface.
.TP
.B SDL_TYPE_E1
E1 interface.
.TP
.B SDL_TYPE_T1
T1 interface.
.TP
.B SDL_TYPE_J1
J1 interface.
.TP
.B SDL_TYPE_ATM
ATM SAL interface.
.TP
.B SDL_TYPE_PACKET
packet-based interface.
.PD
.PP
It might not be possible for the manager to change this value.  For some
devices, such as some chipsets supported by the X400P driver, it might be
possible to change this value amoungst
.BR SDL_TYPE_E1 ", " SDL_TYPE_T1 " and " SDL_TYPE_J1 .
.RE
.TP
.I ifrate
interface rate
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_IF_TX_RUNNING\(em'u
.B SDL_RATE_NONE
unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_RATE_DS0A
56 kbps.
.TP
.B SDL_RATE_DS0
64 kbps.
.TP
.B SDL_RATE_T1
1.544 Mbps.
.TP
.B SDL_RATE_J1
1.544 Mbps.
.TP
.B SDL_RATE_E1
2.048 Mbps.
.TP
.B SDL_RATE_T2
6.312 Mbps.
.TP
.B SDL_RATE_E2
8.488 Mbps.
.TP
.B SDL_RATE_E3
34.368 Mbps.
.TP
.B SDL_RATE_T3
44.736 Mbps.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ifgtype
group type
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_IF_TX_RUNNING\(em'u
.B SDL_GTYPE_NONE
unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_T1
T1 carrier.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_E1
E1 carrier.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_J1
J1 carrier.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_ATM
ATM SAL.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_ETH
Ethernet.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_IP
Internet Protocol.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_UDP
User Datagram Protocol.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_TCP
Transmission Control Protocol.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_RTP
Real-Time Transport Protocol.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_SCTP
Stream Control Transmission Protocol.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_T2
T2 carrier.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_E2
E2 carrier.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_E3
E3 carrier.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_T3
T3 carrier.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_OC3
OC3 optical carrier.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_OC12
OC12 optical carrier.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_OC48
OC48 optical carrier.
.TP
.B SDL_GTYPE_OC192
OC192 optical carrier.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ifgrate
group rate
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_IF_TX_RUNNING\(em'u
.B SDL_GRATE_NONE
unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_GRATE_T1
1.544 Mbps.
.TP
.B SDL_GRATE_J1
1.544 Mbps.
.TP
.B SDL_GRATE_E1
2.048 Mbps.
.TP
.B SDL_GRATE_T2
6.312 Mbps.
.TP
.B SDL_GRATE_E2
8.488 Mbps.
.TP
.B SDL_GRATE_E3
34.368 Mbps.
.TP
.B SDL_GRATE_T3
44.736 Mbps.
.TP
.B SDL_GRATE_OC3
155.52 Mbps.
.TP
.B SDL_GRATE_OC12
622.08 Mbps.
.TP
.B SDL_GRATE_OC48
2.48832 Gbps.
.TP
.B SDL_GRATE_OC192
9.95328 Gbps.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ifmode
interface mode
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_IF_TX_RUNNING\(em'u
.B SDL_MODE_NONE
unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_MODE_DSU
Data Service Unit.
.TP
.B SDL_MODE_CSU
Channel Service Unit.
.TP
.B SDL_MODE_DTE
Data Terminating Equipment.
.TP
.B SDL_MODE_DCE
Data Control Equipment.
.TP
.B SDL_MODE_CLIENT
client.
.TP
.B SDL_MODE_SERVER
server.
.TP
.B SDL_MODE_PEER
peer.
.TP
.B SDL_MODE_ECHO
echo.
.TP
.B SDL_MODE_REM_LB
remote loop-back.
.TP
.B SDL_MODE_LOC_LB
local loop-back.
.TP
.B SDL_MODE_LB_ECHO
local loop-back and echo.
.TP
.B SDL_MODE_TEST
test.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ifgmode
group mode
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_IF_TX_RUNNING\(em'u
.B SDL_GMODE_NONE
unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_GMODE_LOC_LB
local loop-back.
.TP
.B SDL_GMODE_REM_LB
remote loop-back.
.TP
.B SDL_GMODE_BOTH_LB
local and remote loop-back.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ifgcrc
group crc type
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_IF_TX_RUNNING\(em'u
.B SDL_GCRC_NONE
unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_GCRC_CRC4
CRC4.
.TP
.B SDL_GCRC_CRC5
CRC5.
.TP
.B SDL_GCRC_CRC6
CRC6.
.TP
.B SDL_GCRC_CRC6J
CRC6J.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ifclock
interface clock
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_IF_TX_RUNNING\(em'u
.B SDL_CLOCK_NONE
unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_CLOCK_INT
internal.
.TP
.B SDL_CLOCK_EXT
external.
.TP
.B SDL_CLOCK_LOOP
loop (Tx clock derived from recovered Rx clock).
.TP
.B SDL_CLOCK_MASTER
master.
.TP
.B SDL_CLOCK_SLAVE
slave.
.TP
.B SDL_CLOCK_DPLL
digital phase-locked loop.
.TP
.B SDL_CLOCK_ABR
average bit-rate.
.TP
.B SDL_CLOCK_SHAPER
clock shaper algorithm.
.TP
.B SDL_CLOCK_TICK
adaptive (system bus or tick clock).
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ifcoding
interface coding
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_IF_TX_RUNNING\(em'u
.B SDL_CODING_NONE
unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_CODING_NRZ
non-return to zero.
.TP
.B SDL_CODING_NRZI
non-return to zero inverted.
.TP
.B SDL_CODING_AMI
alternate mark-space inversion.
.TP
.B SDL_CODING_B6ZS
B6ZS.
.TP
.B SDL_CODING_B8ZS
B8ZS.
.TP
.B SDL_CODING_HDB3
HDB3.
.TP
.B SDL_CODING_AAL1
ATM Adaption Layer 1.
.TP
.B SDL_CODING_AAL2
ATM Adaption Layer 2.
.TP
.B SDL_CODING_AAL5
ATM Adaption Layer 5.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ifframing
interface framing
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_IF_TX_RUNNING\(em'u
.B SDL_FRAMING_NONE
unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_FRAMING_CCS
common channel signalling (E1 only).
.TP
.B SDL_FRAMING_CAS
channel associated signalling (E1 only).
.TP
.B SDL_FRAMING_SF
super-frame (T1/J1 only).
.TP
.B SDL_FRAMING_ESF
extended super-frame (T1/J1 only).
.TP
.B SDL_FRAMING_D4
D4 framing (T1/J1 only).
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ifblksize
interface block size
.TP
.I ifleads
interface leads
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_IF_TX_RUNNING\(em'u
.B SDL_LEAD_DTR
the data terminal ready lead.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_LEAD_RTS
the request to send lead.
.TP
.B SDL_LEAD_DCD
the data carrier detect lead.
.TP
.B SDL_LEAD_CTS
the clear to send lead.
.TP
.B SDL_LEAD_DSR
the data set ready lead.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ifbpv
bipolar violations (E1/T1/J1)
.TP
.I ifalarms
interface alarms (E1/T1/J1)
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_IF_TX_RUNNING\(em'u
.B SDL_ALARM_RED
the span is experiencing a red alarm (loss of syncrhonization at the local
end).
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_ALARM_BLU
the span is experiencing a blu alarm (crc error or span out of service).
.TP
.B SDL_ALARM_YEL
the span is experiencing a yellow alarm (loss of synchronization at the
remote end).
.TP
.B SDL_ALARM_REC
the span is in alarm recovery.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ifrxlevel
interface receive level
.TP
.I iftxlevel
interface transmit level
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_TXLEVEL_120OHM_HRL\ \(em'u
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_NONE
unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_DSX_133FT
line build-out of 0 to 133 feet.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_DSX_266FT
line build-out of 133 to 266 feet.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_DSX_399FT
line build-out of 266 to 399 feet.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_DSX_533FT
line build-out of 399 to 533 feet.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_DSX_666FT
line build-out of 533 to 666 feet.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_CSU_0DB
0 dBrm.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_CSU_8DB
8 dBrm.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_CSU_15DB
15 dBrm.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_CSU_23DB
23 dBrm.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_75OHM_NM
balanced 75 Ohm.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_120OHM_NM
balanced 120 Ohm.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_75OHM_PR
balanced 75 Ohm.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_120OHM_PR
balanced 120 Ohm.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_75OHM_HRL
balanced 75 Ohm (high return loss).
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_120OHM_HRL
balanced 120 Ohm (high return loss).
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_MON_0DB
monitoring with 0 dB gain.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_MON_12DB
monitoring with 12 dB gain.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_MON_20DB
monitoring with 20 dB gain.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_MON_26DB
monitoring with 26 dB gain.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_MON_30DB
monitoring with 30 dB gain.
.TP
.B SDL_TXLEVEL_MON_32DB
monitoring with 32 dB gain.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I ifsync
interface synchronization source (E1/T1/J1)
.TP
.I ifsyncsrc[SDL_SYNCS]
interace synchronization sources (E1/T1/J1)
.\"
.SS State
.PP
.TP \w'\fIifblksize\(em'u
.I tx_state
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_STATE_IN_SERVICE\ \(em'u
.B SDL_STATE_IDLE
idle.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_STATE_IN_SERVICE
in-service.
.TP
.B SDL_STATE_CONGESTED
in-service congested.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I rx_state
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_STATE_IN_SERVICE\ \(em'u
.B SDL_STATE_IDLE
idle.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_STATE_IN_SERVICE
in-service.
.TP
.B SDL_STATE_CONGESTED
in-service congested.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.SS Statistics
.PP
Statistics management input-output controls use the
.B sdl_stats
structure defined in
.IR <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h> .
The
.B sdl_stats
structure contains the following members:
.TP \w'\fIifblksize\(em'u
.I header
contains a Local Management Interface (LMI),
.[
lmi
.]
.BR lmi (7),
common header.
.RS
.TP \w'\fItimestamp\(em'u
.I object_id
object identifier for the statistics that follow.
This OID identifies the Signalling Data Link to which the statistics apply.
.TP
.I colperiod
collection period.  The collection period is typically 5-minutes or
15-minutes, but may be set to tighter values for special studies.
.TP
.I timestamp
timestamp at end of collection period.  The time at which the statistics were
collected.
.RE
.TP
.I rx_octets
the number of octets received from the line.  This is (more accurately) the
number of octets read from the RX FIFO.  When there are no overruns of the
RX FIFO, this represents the line octet time.
.TP
.I tx_octets
the number of octets sent on the line.  This is (more accurately) the number
of octets written to the TX FIFO.  When there are no underruns of the TX
FIFO, this represents the line octet time.
.TP
.I rx_overruns
the number of receiver FIFO overruns.
.IP ""
The receiver is implemented as a FIFO between device firmware and driver
software.  The device writes received octets to the FIFO at the line rate,
and the software driver reads octets from the FIFO.  Should the hardware need
to write octets to the FIFO when the FIFO is full, a receiver FIFO overrun
condition occurs.  Only one octet is lost on each overrun.
.IP ""
For OpenSS7 drivers, this value is always zero (0) under normal operating
conditions.  Any non-zero value indicates a software or performance problem.
.TP
.I tx_underruns
the number of transmitter FIFO underruns.
.IP ""
The transmitter is implemented as a FIFO between driver software and device
firmware.  The driver software write octets for transmission to the FIFO and
the device firmware reads octets from the FIFO at the line rate.  Should the
hardware need to read octets from the FIFO when the FIFO is empty, a transmit
FIFO underrun condition occurs.  Typically, hardware will insert an 'one
zero, seven ones' or 'all ones' octet which serves to abort any HDLC frame in
progress.
.IP ""
For OpenSS7 drivers, this value is always zero (0) under normal operating
conditions.  Any non-zero value indicates a software or performance problem.
.TP
.I rx_buffer_overflows
the number of receive buffer overflows.
.IP ""
The device driver implements a receive buffer between the device and the
application using the device driver.  This is similar to a FIFO but is much
larger and is not necessarily read or written at a syncrhonous rate on either
end.  Also, it is not necessarily fixed in size.  If the application does not
read data from the buffer fast enough, it will overflow.  This statistic
counts the number of overflow conditions.  Each overflow condition will
destroy the number of octets indicated by the
.I ifblksize
field in the configuration structure.
.IP ""
For OpenSS7 drivers, this value is always zero (0) under normal operating
conditions.  Any non-zero value indicates a software or performance problem.
.TP
.I tx_buffer_overflows
the number of transmit buffer overflows.
.IP ""
The device driver implements a transmit buffer between the application using
the device driver and the device.  This is similar to a FIFO but is much
larger and is not necessarily read or written at a synchronous rate on either
end.  Also, it is not necessarily fixed in size.  If the application writes
data to the buffer too fast, it will overflow.  This statistic counts the
number of overflow conditions.  Each overflow condition will destroy the
number of octets indicated by the
.I ifblksize
field in the configuration structure.
.IP ""
For OpenSS7 drivers, this value is always zero (0) under normal operating
conditions.  Any non-zero value indicates a software or performance problem.
.TP
.I lead_cts_lost
the number of CTS lost conditions.
Indicates the number of times that the clear-to-send (CTS) lead transitioned
from the asserted to deasserted states.  This statistic is applicable only to
V.35 interfaces.
.TP
.I lead_dcd_lost
the number of DCD lost conditions.
Indicates the number of times that the data-carrier-detect (DCD) lead
transitioned from the asserted to deasserted states.  This statistic is
applicable only to V.35 interfaces.
.TP
.I carrier_lost
the number of carrier-lost conditions.
Indicates the number of red alarm or loss of carrier conditions.  This
statistic is applicable only to E1/T1/J1 interfaces.
.\"
.SS Events
.PP
.TP \w'\fIifblksize\(em'u
.I events
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSDL_EVT_LOST_SYNC\ \(em'u
.B SDL_EVT_LOST_SYNC
the receiver lost synchronization.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SDL_EVT_SU_ERROR
a signal unit was received in error.
.TP
.B SDL_EVT_TX_FAIL
the transmitter has failed.
.TP
.B SDL_EVT_RX_FAIL
the receiver has failed.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
Input output control have not been described yet.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B THIS MANUAL PAGE IS INCOMPLETE AND MUST BE COMPLETED.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
None.
.\"
.XX
.[
q702
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
