'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sdt-pmod.4.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:34:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:34:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sdt-pmod.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:34:55  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SDT-PMOD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sdt-pmod
\- SS7 Q.702 Signalling Data Terminal module for STREAMS-basd Pipes
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdti.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = pipe(" streams "[], " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" streams "[0], " \fRI_PUSH\fI ", " \fR\*(lqsdt-pmod\*(rq\fI );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B SDT-PMOD
is an implementation of the Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) Signalling Terminal
(SDT) as specified in ITU-T Recommendation Q.702,
.[
q702
.]
but for STREAMS-based pipes instead of a syncrhonous communications channel.
.PP
.B SDT-PMOD
is implemented as a pushable
.IR STREAMS (4)
module.  The
.B SDT-PMOD
module can be pushed over a STREAMS-based
.BR pipe (4).
The
.B SDT-PMOD
module provides data terminal access to the byte stream from the STREAMS-based
pipe provided by the
.BR pipe (4)
stream below it.
The
.B SDT-PMOD
also provides AERM, SUERM and EIM functions directly.
.PP
The upper service interface
provided by the
.B SDT-PMOD
module, to both sides of the pipe, is the Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI)
.[
sdti
.]
as decribed in
.BR sdti (7).
That is, regardless of the fact that the
.B SDT-PMOD
module is only pushed on one side of the pipe, both sides of the pipe exhibt the SDTI service
interface to a connected pair of SDTS users, one user at each end of the pipe.
.PP
.B SDT-PMOD
streams can have
.BR sl (4)
modules pushed (on
.I both
sides of the pipe) to provide a complete SS7 Signalling Link, each side of the pipe which can then
be linked under an
.BR mtp (4)
or
.BR m2ua (4)
driver using the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide signalling link services to the Level 3 protocol.
.PP
In this way, entire signalling networks can be emulated internal to a single host.
Quite complex configurations are possible.
(Complex configuraion is normally performed, as required, by the SS7 Configuration Daemon,
.BR ss7confd (8).)
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR sdt "(4) and " sl (4)
have been implemented as pushable modules to ease the development fo SS7 Signalling Link drivers for
various cards. All that is required is transparent access to a channel and the implementation of the
simplistic Channel Interface (CHI) or Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI) and it is possble to
push the 
.BR sdt "(4) and " sl (4)
modules over the data link to result in a fully conformant SS7 Signalling Link.  To facilitate
testing of the
.BR sdt "(4) and " sl (4)
pushable modules, both the
.BR sdl-pmod (4)
and
.B SDT-PMOD
modules were developed to permit transforming a STREAMS-based pipe into a connected signalling data
link or signalling data terminal.  This permits controlled testing of the pushable modules that make
up the remainder of the SS7 Signalling Link without using a real driver.
.PP
Therefore, one of the primary purposes of this module was for using STREAMS-based pipes to test the
other modules
.RB ( sl "(4) and " sdt (4))
pushed on the Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B SDT-PMOD
is implemented internally as a wrapper around a STREAMS=based pipe.
.PP
.B SDT-PMOD
does not perform HDLC framing on a bit-oriented protocol in the same manner as
the pushable
.BR sdt (4)
module:
.B SDT-PMOD
simply takes SDUs and transfers them across the STREAMS-based pipe using
M_PROTO and M_DATA message blocks.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B SDT-PMOD
modules are not normally pushed or accessed directly by user-level programs.
The
.B SDT-PMOD
module is used directly by some test and monitoring programs.
The following steps are taken to establish this pseudo-data terminal facility:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
Open a STREAMS-based pipe using the
.BR pipe (2s)
STREAMS library call.
.IP 2.
Push the
.B sdt-pmod
module on one side of the pipe.  It is not necessary to push
.BR pipemod (4)
as the
.B SDT-PMOD
module performs the necessary flush bit reversal.
.IP 3.
Configure the signalling data terminal on both ends of the link using the
.B SDT_IOCSCONFIG
input-output controls.
.IP 4.
Push modules as necessary on both ends of the pipe.
.IP ""
For example, the Q.781 conformance test program
will push an
.BR sl (4)
module on the implementation under test side of the pipe.  The Q.781
conformance test porgram then uses the SDTI interface on the PT side to test
the SLI interface and implementation on the IUT side.
.IP ""
For an emulated singalling link, the
.BR sl (4)
module is pushed on both sides of the pipe.  Each end of the signalilng link
could then be linked under a separate
.BR mtp (4)
signalling point.  This approach is used by the Q.782 test program for testing
.BR mtp (4)
in complex configurations.
.PP
All-in-all, for virtual signalling link configurations, the
.B SDT-PMOD
module is a better choice than the
.BR sdl-pmod (4)
module, because the
.B SDT-PMOD
module does not need to throttle the link.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B SDT-PMOD
module responds to Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
IO controls as interpreted for
.B SDT-PMOD
operation as described in
.BR sdti_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.RB <ss7/lmi.h> ,
.RB <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h> ,
.RB <ss7/sdli.h> ,
.RB <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h> ,
.RB <ss7/sdti.h> ,
.RB <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.TP
.B streams-sdt_pmod.o
Implements the
.B SDT-PMOD
module named
.RI \(lq sdt-pmod \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR pipe (4),
.BR sl (4),
.BR sdti (7),
.BR sdti_ioctl (4),
.BR ss7confd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B SDT-PMOD
module conforms to the SDTI Specification, Revsion 0.8.2.
.PP
The
.B SDT-PMOD
module first appeared in
.B strss7
release 0.7.8.
.PP
In earlier releases of
.BR strss7 ,
the
.B SDT
module only provided AERM, SUERM and EIM functions over an
.B SDL
module that conformed roughly to the CDI sepcification (see
.BR cdi (7)).
Earlier release specifications and approaches are incompatible with the
current
.BR strss7
release 0.8.4 approach.  This only impacts driver development.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q702
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
