'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sdt_ioctl.4.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sdt_ioctl.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:11  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SDT-IOCTL 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B sdt_ioctl
\- Signalling Data Terminal (SDT) 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/lmi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdli.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdti.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " acb56_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/acb56\fI ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ACB56
is a
Signalling Data Terminal Interface,
.BR sdti (7),
device driver for the SeaLevel Systems, Inc., ACB56 card.
.PP
.B ACB56
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
device driver that provides the
Signalling Data Terminal Interface,
.BR sdti (7).
.PP
.B ACB56
provides the following devices that are directly compatible with the stream
types provided by pushing the
.BR sdt (4)
module:
.TP
.I /dev/acb56
This device provides an
.B SDT
protocol service interface using the SDT-primitives of the Signalling Data
Terminal Interface described in
.BR sdti (7).
This interface is suitable for use with the
.BR sl (4)
module for use with the
.BR mtp (4)
or
.BR m2ua (4)
multiplexors.
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of Local Management Interface IO controls,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
using the
.BR ioctl (2s)
and
.I I_STR
command to the
.BR streamio (7)
system call on the
.I acb56_stream
file descriptor.
See
.BR sdt_ioctl (4)
for a complete description of SDT management controls, and
below for a description of SDT management controls particular to the
.B ACB56
driver.
.SS Configuration
.PP
Configuration management input-output controls use the
.B sdt_config
structure.
The
.B sdt_config
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I t8
T8 timeout.
.TP
.I Tin
AERM normal proving threshold.
.TP
.I Tie
AERM emergency proving threshold.
.TP
.I T
SUERM error threshold.
.TP
.I D
SUERM error rate parameter.
.TP
.I Te
EIM error threshold.
.TP
.I De
EIM correct decrement.
.TP
.I Ue
EIM error increment.
.TP
.I N
Octets per su in octet-counting mode.
.TP
.I m
Maximum SIF size.
.TP
.I b
Transmit block size.
.TP
.I f
Number of flags between frames
.RS
.TP
.B SDT_FLAGS_ONE
.TP
.B SDT_FLAGS_SHARED
.TP
.B SDT_FLAGS_TWO
.TP
.B SDT_FLAGS_THREE
.RE
.IP \(em 4
.B ACB56
does not support the flags,
.IR f ,
field of the
.B sdt_config
structure.  The number of flags between frames is under the control of the SCC
chip on the card.
.IP \(em
.B ACB56
does not support the transmit block size,
.IR b ,
field of the
.B sdt_config
structure.
.IP \(em
.B ACB56
does not support the following fields
of the
.B sdt_config
structure:
.IR t8 ,
.IR Te ,
.IR De " and "
.IR Ue ,
as it does not support high speed links.

.SS Options
.PP
Options management IO controls use the
.B sdt_opt_conf
structure described in
.BR sdt_ioctl (4).
The
.B sdt_opt_conf
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I pvar
Protocol variant.
.RS
.PP
.B SS7_PVAR_ITUT_88
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ITUT_93
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ITUT_96
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ITUT_00
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ETSI_88
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ETSI_93
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ETSI_96
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ETSI_00
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ANSI_88
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ANSI_92
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ANSI_96
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ANSI_00
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_JTTC_94
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_CHIN_00
.RE
.TP
.I popt
Protocol options.
.RS
.TP
.B SS7_POPT_MPLEV
Multiple priority/congestion levels.
.TP
.B SS7_POPT_PCR
Preventative cyclic retranlmission.
.TP
.B SS7_POPT_HSL
High speed links.
.TP
.B SS7_POPT_XSN
Extended sequence numbers.
.TP
.B SS7_POPT_ALL
All options.
.RE
.IP \(em 4
.B ACB56
does not support the protocol options
.BR SS7_POPT_HSL ,
.BR SS7_POPT_XSN  " and "
.BR SS7_POPT_ALL ,
values in the
.I popt
field of the
.B sdt_opt_conf
structure, as it does not support high speed links.
.SS State
.PP
State management IO controls use the
.B sdt_statem
structure described in
.BR sdt_ioctl (4).
The
.B sdt_statem
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I aerm_state
AERM state variable
.TP
.I aborted_proving
AERM aborted proving
.TP
.I Ca
AERM error counter
.TP
.I Ti
AERM threshold
.TP
.I suerm_state
SUERM state variable
.TP
.I Cs
SUERM error counter
.TP
.I Ns
SUERM su counter
.TP
.I eim_state
EIM state variable
.TP
.I Ce
EIM counter
.TP
.I su_received
EIM su received flag
.TP
.I interval_error
EIM interval error flag
.TP
.I daedt_state
DAEDT state variable
.RS
.TP
.B SDT_STATE_IDLE
.TP
.B SDT_STATE_IN_SERVICE
.TP
.B SDT_STATE_MONITORING
.TP
.B SDT_STATE_CONGESTED
.RE
.TP
.I daedr_state
DAEDR state variable
.TP
.I octet_counting_mode
Receivers freewheeling.
.IP \(em 4
.B ACB56
does not support the
.IR eim_state ,
.IR Ce ,
.IR su_received " or "
.IR interval_error ,
fields of the
.B sdt_statem
structure, as it does not support high speed links.
.SS Statistics
.PP
Statistics management IO controls use the
.B sdt_stats
structure described in
.BR sdt_ioctl (4).
The
.B sdt_stats
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I header
.TP
.I tx_bytes
.TP
.I tx_sus
.TP
.I tx_sus_repeated
.TP
.I tx_underruns
.TP
.I tx_aborts
.TP
.I tx_buffer_overflows
.TP
.I tx_sus_in_error
.TP
.I rx_bytes
.TP
.I rx_sus
.TP
.I rx_sus_compressed
.TP
.I rx_overruns
.TP
.I rx_aborts
.TP
.I rx_buffer_overflows
.TP
.I rx_sus_in_error
.TP
.I rx_sync_transitions
.TP
.I rx_bits_octet_counted
.TP
.I rx_crc_errors
.TP
.I rx_frame_errors
.TP
.I rx_frame_overflows
.TP
.I rx_frame_too_long
.TP
.I rx_frame_too_short
.TP
.I rx_residue_errors
.TP
.I rx_length_error
.TP
.I carrier_cts_lost
.TP
.I carrier_dcd_lost
.TP
.I carrier_lost
.IP \(em 4
.B ACB56
does not support the
.I carrier_lost
field of the
.B sdt_stats
structure, as it does not support common carrier modes.
.SS Events
.PP
Event management IO controls use the
.B sdt_notify
structure described in
.BR sdt_ioctl (4).
The
.B sdt_notify
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I events
.RS
.TP
.B SDT_EVT_LOST_SYNC
The link has lost synchronization with flags.
.TP
.B SDT_EVT_SU_ERROR
The link has received an SU in error.
.TP
.B SDT_EVT_TX_FAIL
Tx failure has been detected.
.TP
.B SDT_EVT_RX_FAIL
Rx failure has been detected.
.TP
.B SDT_EVT_CARRIER
Carrier failure has been detected.
.RE
.SS Commands
.PP
Command management IO controls use the
.B sdt_mgmt
structure described in
.BR sdt_ioctl (4).
The
.B sdt_mgmt
structure contains the following members:
.PP
There are no commands for
.BR sdt_ioctl (4).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR sdti (7),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4)
.BR sdt_ioctl (4),
.BR sl (4).
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sdti.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h> .
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was updated @PACKAGE_DATE@ for
.B @PACKAGE@
release
.BR "@VERSION@" .
.PP
The
.B ACB56
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
stack.
.PP
The
.B ACB56
driver first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.7.2 .
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q701
.]
.[
q702
.]
.[
q703
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
