'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sl-min.4.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sl-min.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:11  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SL-MIN 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sl-min
\- Signalling Link (SL) Mimimal Multiplexer
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sli.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sli_ioctl.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B SL-MIN
is a minimal Signalling Link (SL) multiplexer.  Its purpose is to handle signalling link functions
that are normally performed at the MTP level so that a signalling link link can be used directly by
user level test programs without the need for an MTP.  The primary function of the multiplexer is as
follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
To hold the signalling link active between opens and closes of applications programs.  This is
accomplished by permanently linking a Signalling Link Stream beneath the multiplexing driver using
the
.BR I_PLINK (7)
STREAMS input-output control.
.IP \(bu
Maintain activity of the signalling link without user-level program intervention.  This is
accomplished by responding internally to SLTM request messages with SLTA messages.  Otherwise, the
remote MTP layer would not place the link into service and might take the link out of service after
a period of time.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B SL-MIN
multiplexing driver is not intended for use with more than one signalling link at a time.  Also, the
.B SL-MIN
multiplexing driver is only intended for performing Signalling Link interoperability testing with a
remote implemetnation containing a full MTP protocol layer: it is not intended for production use.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B SL-MIN
is implemented as a very simple STREAMS multiplexing driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
To user the multiplexer, the application opens the device, opens the Signalling Link stream that is
to be kept available, and the Signalling Link stream is linked beneath the driver using the
.BR I_PLINK (7)
STREAMS input-output control.  A sample program that does this is the
.BR src/test/sl/test-sl-start.c
program in the distribution directory.
A sample program that stops the link is in the
.BR src/test/sl/test-sl-stop.c
program in the distribution directory.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.B SL-MIN
does not accept any input-output controls of its own but passes all input-output controls to the
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.RB < ss7/sli.h >,
.RB < ss7/sli_ioctl.h >,
.RB < ss7/sdti.h >,
.RB < ss7/sdti_ioctl.h >,
.RB < ss7/sdli.h >,
.RB < ss7/sdli_ioctl.h >.
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.TP
.TP
.B streams-sl_min.o
Implements the
.B SL-MIN
multiplexing driver named
.RI \(lq sl-min \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/sl-min
This device provides access to the
.B SL-MIN
multiplexing driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR sl (4),
.BR mtp (4),
.BR mtpi (7),
.BR mtp_ioctl (4),
.BR npi_mtp (7),
.BR tpi_mtp (7),
.BR xti_mtp (3),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR ss7confd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B SL-MIN
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
SS7 application programming interfaces have not been subject to
standardization; however, where the OSI APIs are direclty
applicable to protocol layers of the SS7 stacks, OpenSS7
provides OSI compatible interfaces.  Thus,
.B MTP-MOD
is largely compatible with implements providing the CDI
interface.
.[
cdi revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SS7 does not have a traditional and standard implementation;
however, the implementation standards from the OSI are in many
cases directly applicable.
Test programs and drivers such as
.B SL-MIN
are not standardized and have no comparable OSI interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The SL Interface (SLI) is specific to the
.B OpenSS7 
SS7 Stack.
This is Version 2 of the interface.
The
.B SL-MIN
module conforms to the SLI Specifiction, Revision 0.8.2.
.[
sli
.]
.PP
The
.B SL-MIN
module first appeared publicly in the
.B @PACKAGE@
release 0.8.2.
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
SS7 Stack.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI

