'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man4/v401p.4.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH V401P 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B v401P
\- Varion V401P (Tormenta III) Card Driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/chi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/chi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mxi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mxi_ioctl.h>
.HP 12
.BR "int " v401p_stream " = open(" v400p_device ", "  flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B V401P
driver is a
.I STREAMS
driver for the Varion V401P (Tormenta III Card).
.PP
.B V401P
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
device driver that provides the Channel Interface (CHI),
.BR chi (7),
and Multiplex Interface (MXI),
.BR mxi (7).
The
.B chi (7)
interface can be used directly, or
.BR ch (4)
modules can be pushed over a Multiplex Interface (MXI),
.BR mxi (7).
.PP
.B V401P
provides the several devices that are directly compatible with a number of
stream types and interface protocols.  To select a stream type,
.I v401p_device
can be selected from on of the following devices:
.TP
.I /dev/v401p-ch
This device provides a
.B CH
protocol service interface using the CH-Primitives of the
.BR chi (7).
The
.BR chi (7)
interface to this device is suitable to have a
.BR cd (4)
module pushed over the channel to provide a Communications Device Interface,
.BR cdi (7),
stream that can then be linked under a multiplexer for data communications
support.
.TP
.I /dev/v401p-mx
This device provides a
.B MX
protocol service interface using the MX-Primitives of the
.BR mxi (7).
The
.BR mxi (7)
interface to this device is suitable to have a
.BR ch (4)
module pushed over the multiplex, or linked under a
.BR ch (4)
multiplexing driver,
to provide a Channel Interface,
.BR chi (7),
stream that can then be linked under a multiplexer or have additional modules
pushed.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The
.B V401P
driver provides three interfaces avialable by opening Streams on the
appropriate minor device number.  These three streams are as follows:
.TP
.BR mxi (7)
This is a time-division multiplexed, channelized, channel group (e.g, E1 span)
Stream suitable for linking under the
.BR mx (4)
driver switch matrix.
.TP
.BR chi (7)
This is a single- or multi-rate (e.g, full T1) channel Stream, also suitable
for linking under the
.BR mx (4)
driver switch matrix, but intended to be used to drop and insert signalling
channels to and from a span for signalling applications such as Signalling
System No. 7 F-links or ISDN Primary Rate D channels.  For the purpose of
signalling performance an prioritization within the platform, signalling
channels are not normally passed through the
.BR mx (4)
software switching matrix.
.IP ""
These Streams are suitable to have HDLC and upper layer protocol modules
pushed onto them to form a complete data link Stream.
.TP
.BR lmi (7)
This is a management Stream used for controlling the underlying device or
determining other information and event notifications (e.g, group alarms,
etc.).
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
Addresses consist of an 8-bit card address, an 8-bit span address and a 16-bit
channel address.  This provides for 256 cards each with 256 spans consisting
of 65534 circuits which should be sufficient to handle this entire family of
cards for a long time to come.
.PP
Circuits are addressed using a non-zero circuit number.  Spans are addressed
using a zero circuit number.  For example,
.B 01.03.0001
addresses the 1st circuit in the 3rd span of the 1st card;
.B 02.01.0000
addresses the 1st entire span of the 2nd card.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of Local Management Interface input-output
controls,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
using the
.BR ioctl (2s)
and
.IR I_STR (7)
comand to the
.BR streamio (7)
system call on the
.I v401p_stream
file descriptor.
The
.I /dev/v401p-ch
device supports the Local Management Interface input-output controls
at the
.BR chi_ioctl (4)
level.
The
.I /dev/v401p-mx
device supports the Local Management Interface input-output controls
at the
.BR mxi_ioctl (4)
level.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B V401P
driver departs from the approach that was previously taken to the
.BR x400p (4)
driver.  This departure has provided the ability to support a wider range of
functions within the driver.
Note that the new approach splits the driver over several
.I STREAMS
modules.  This approach has become possible to the drastic increase in
performance exprience by using
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
lfs
.]
.\"
.SS "SS7 Operation"
.PP
The means of providing SS7 signalling links with this driver represents a
departure from previous implementations.  In previous implementations the SDL,
SDT and SL levels of the SS7 signalling link were provided directly by the
driver.  In this implementation the SS7 interface have been removed.  The
proper procedure for creating an SS7 signalling link from the driver is as
follows:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
Open a
.BR chi (7)
Stream on the driver.
.IP 2.
Push an SDT and SL, or SDT/SL combined module on the Stream.
.IP 3.
Perform the configuration attach and enable of the signalling link as normal.
Note that the CHI addresses of this driver and the SL attachment addresses of
the previous drivers are identical.
.\"
.SS "ISDN Operation"
.PP
The
.BR lapd (4)
module can now be pushed over a
.BR chi (7)
Stream in a similar fashion to the
.BR sdt (4)
module described for SS7 above.
.\"
.SS "Zaptel Operation"
.PP
Unlike the
.BR x400p (4)
driver before it, the
.B V401P
driver supports bearer circuits and signalling on the same card.  This is done
using the
.BR chi (7)
and
.BR mxi (7)
interfaces.
These interfaces can be adapted to may needs.  The
.B V401P
driver now supports a high-performance
.BR zaptel (4)
module that provides the legacy Zapata Telephony character device interface to
the driver.
.PP
The
.BR zaptel (4)
module is used with the driver by opening one of the non-clone minor device
nodes associated with the driver and the
.BR chi (7)
interface.  These minor device numbers may have an
.BR autopush (8)
specification associated with them to autopush the
.BR zaptel (4)
module.  Once the module is pushed, using the minor device number passed to
the module's
.BR qi_qopen (9)
routine, the module determines to which Zapata Telephony device it corresponds
and present the interface for that channel.  (Note that channel 255 is special
and provides access to all devices on the same channel.)
Once the Stream has been opened and the module pushed, Zapata Telephony
input-output controls, reads and writes are performed in the same manner as
those for the legacy character device interface wc400 zaptel driver.  See
.BR zaptel (4)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B V401P
driver is currently incomplete, so all bugs have yet to be designed.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mx (4),
.BR mxi (7),
.BR chi (7),
.BR lmi (7),
.BR x400p (4),
.BR lapd (4),
.BR sdt (4),
.BR zaptel (4),
.BR autopush (8),
.BR qi_qopen (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B V401P
driver is compatible with the previous
.BR x400p (4)
drivers.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
OpenSS7 Specifications.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
