'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man4/vtoip.4.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH VTOIP 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B vtoip
\- Voice Trunking over Internet Protocol
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B VTOIP
is an implementation of the Voice Trunking over IP specification defined
in ITU-T Recommendation Y.1454.
.[
y1454
.]
ITU-T Recommendation Y.1454 is essentially VTOA and ATM AAL2
.[
af113
.]
over IP.
Instead of segmenting and reassembling the AAL2 (ITU-T Recommendation
I.363.2)
.[
i3632
.]
CPCS PDUS into ATM
.[
i3661
.]
.[
i3662
.]
cells, the AAL2 CPCS PDUs are placed into UDP datagrams and set to their
destination.  Note that UDP port numbers serve the role of the VPI/VCI
and distinguish the AAL2 flow for the IP interface in the same manner as
the VPI/VCI distinguish the AAL2 flow for the ATM interface.
.PP
.B VTOIP
is implemented as a
.I STREAMS
pushable module.
The module pushes over a UDP Stream that provides connectivity to the
peer VToIP system.  The upper boundary service interface for the module
is the Multiplex Interface (MXI),
.[
mxi revision @PACKAGE_VERSION@ draft @PACKAGE_RELEASE@
.]
.BR mxi (7),
interface.  The lower boundary service interface for the module is the
Network Provider Interaface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0 draft 2
.]
.BR npi (7),
interface as interpreted for UDP,
.BR npi_udp (7).
.PP
In general, the UDP Stream may be opened, options configured, bound to a
local IP address and port number, and connected to a remote IP address
and port number.  This module can then be pushed.  Pushing the module
will flush the Stream and any data message received on the Stream will
be discarded until the Stream is configured, enabled and connected.
.PP
Once the module is pushed, the MXI Stream can be linked under the MATIX
multiplexing driver,
.BR matrix (4),
and the channels present in the multiplex facility will be made
available to the switching matrix.
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSING
.PP
When configured a PPA is associated with the MXI interface.  The PPA to
which the MXI interface is attached is a socket address.  The PPA
address represents the local IP address and port number for UDP.  When
the MXI interface is enabled, the remote address is also a socket
address.  In this case, the remote address represent the remote IP
address and port number for UDP.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The MXI interface supports a set of Local Management Interface
input-output controls using
.BR ioctl (2s)
and
.IR I_STR (7)
.BR streamio (7)
system calls on the
.I voi_stream
file descriptor.
The management structure and constant definitions for MXI are described
in
.BR mxi_ioctl (4)
and contained in the
.RB < sys/mxi_ioctl.h >
header file.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
This manual page is incomplete.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
This manual page is incomplete.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR VOIP (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B VToIP
module is specific to the OpenSS7
.BR VOIP (4)
stack.  This is Version 1 of the module.
.PP
.B VToIP
interfaces are consistent with MXI Revision 0.9.2.
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
