'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: x25-llc.4.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:34:59 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:34:59 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: x25-llc.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:34:59  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH LLC 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B x25-llc, llc
\- X.25 Logical Link Control (LLC) Driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP 12
.BI "int " llc_stream " = open(" llc_device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B LLC
is a driver for the IEEE 802.2 Logical Link Control (LLC).  It presents a
DLPI interface to its users.  As Linux itself performs MAC, LLC, SNAP and LLC
SNAP internal to the kernel, these elements are internal to the driver.  For
each MAC device (LAN interface) there is a MAC device, associated LLC
station, and an association SNAP LLC station.  Each driver stream represents
an LLC user.  The LLC user stream can be LLC type 1, LLC type 2 and LLC type
3.  LLC Type 3 is not supported yet.  When the driver loads, it interrogates
the system for MAC devices and adds LLC and LLC SNAP stations to each MAC
device.  When a driver stream attaches to a PPA, it attaches to the MAC
device, the LLC station, or the LLC SNAP station, depending on some extra
bits in the PPA.  Each PPA is otherwise a Linux interface index.
.PP
When a driver stream is bound to a PPA for DL_CLDLS service, it is the only
stream that will receive DL_CLDLS (MAC or LLC Type 1) packets for the MAC.
LLC station, or LLC SNAP station, for the bound MAC and LSAP addresses.  If
also bound for DL_CODLS, then the stream amy form connection or accept
connections for the stream.  All streams can perform XID and TEST operations.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
This driver has not been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The upper service interface is a Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
service interface.
This driver does not have a lower service interface but hook internally into
the Linux Kernel networking subsystems.
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
This driver has not been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
This driver has not been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
This driver has not been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
This driver has not been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
This driver has not been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
This driver has not been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
This driver has not been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
This driver has not been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
This driver has not been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B LLC
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ns-tcp (4),
.BR xol (4),
.BR xot (4),
.BR isot (4),
.BR itot (4),
.BR iso-ip (4),
.BR iso-tp4 (4),
.IR ISO (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
This driver has not been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B LLC
is compatible with
.IR AIXlink/X.25 ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX X.25/9000" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "SunLink X.25" ,
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25dg
.]
and systems based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Not all implementations specify or utilize this module.
.IP \(em
Some implementations bundle this module in with the OSI protocol suite rather
than the X.25 protocol suite.
.IP \(em
For portability, this module should always be used instead of using the NLI
interface directly.
.PP
See
.BR X25 (4)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR DLPI .
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
This driver has not been implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package
.RB ( "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" ).
.PP
The upper service interface conforms to Revision 2.0.0 of the
.IR "Data Link Provider Interface " ( DLPI ),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7).
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
