'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: x400p.4.man,v 1.1.2.3 2011-02-07 02:18:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: x400p.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.3  2011-02-07 02:18:12  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH X400P 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B x400p
\- T400P-SS7 and E400P-SS7 Card Drivers
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #incldue <ss7/lmi.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/sdli.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/sdti.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/sli.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/sli_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/chi.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/chi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/mxi.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/mxi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " x400p_stream " = open(" x400p_device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B X400P
is a device driver for the Digium T400P and X400P 4-span T1/E1 PCI cards.
.PP
.B X400P
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
device driver that provides the Signalling Data Link Interface,
.BR sdli (7),
Signalling Data Terminal Interface,
.BR sdti (7),
Signalling Link Interface,
.BR sli (7),
Channel Interface,
.BR chi (7),
and
Multiplex Interface,
.BR mxi (7).
The
.BR sdli (7),
.BR sdti (7),
and
.BR sli (7),
interface can be used directly, or the
.BR sdl (4),
.BR sdt (4),
and
.BR sl (4),
modules can be pushed over a Channel Interface,
.BR chi (7).
.PP
.B X400P
provides the several devices that are directly compatible with a number of
stream types and interface protocols.  To select a stream type,
.I x400p_device
can be selected from the following devices:
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/x400p-ss7
This device provides an
.BR SDL ,
.BR SDT ,
and
.BR SL ,
protocol service interface using SDL-, SDT- and SL-primitives of the
.BR sdli (7),
.BR sdti (7),
or
.BR sli (7).
This interface is suitable to be usde directly as an
.BR sdli (7)
device, or have an
.BR sdt (4),
or
.BR sl (4),
module pushed over the
.BR sdli (7)
or
.BR sdti (7)
interfaces.  At the
.BR sli (7)
interface level, this device is suitable to be linked under an
.BR mtp (4)
or
.BR m2ua (4)
mulitplexor.
The only bearer channel access that this device provides is using the
.BR sdli (7)
interface.
.TP
.I /dev/x400p-ch
This device provides a
.BR CH " and " MX
protocol service interface using
CH- and MX-primitives of the
.BR chi (7)
and
.BR mxi (7).
The
.BR mxi (7).
interface to this device is suitable to be linked under a Media Gateway
.BR mg (4),
multiplexor for complete bearer channel switching and control.
The
.BR chi (7)
interface to this device is suitable to have
.BR sdl (4),
.BR sdt (4)
and
.BR sl (4)
modules pushed over the channel to provide a
Signalling Link Interface,
.BR sli (7)
stream that can be then linked under a
.BR mtp (4)
or
.BR m2ua (4)
multiplexor for
.BR SS7 (4)
support.
.PP
The
.IR /dev/x400p-ss7 " and " /dev/x400p-ch
drivers are separate loadable modules and cannot be loaded at the same time.
.I /dev/x400p-sss7
is the older vintage driver that supported SS7 with meager support for bearer
channel access.
.I /dev/x400p-ch
is the newer vintage channel driver that provides complete support for bearer
channel access and uses pushable modules over a Channel Interface,
.BR chi (7),
to support SS7.  These modules are the
.BR sdl (4),
.BR sdt (4),
and
.BR sl (4)
modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of Local Management Interface IO controls,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
using the
.BR ioctl (2s)
and
.I I_STR
command to the
.BR streamio (7)
system call on the
.IR x400p_stream
file descriptor.
The
.I /dev/x400p-ss7
device supports the SS7 Local Management Interface IO controls at the
.BR sdl_ioctl (4),
.BR sdt_ioctl (4),
and
.BR sl_ioctl (4),
levels.
The
.I /dev/x400p-ch
devices supports the MG Local Management Interface IO controls at the
.BR ch_ioctl (4),
and
.BR mx_ioctl (4),
levels.
This driver uses the
.BR sdl (4),
.BR sdt (4),
and
.BR sl (4)
modules to support the SS7 Local Management Interface IO controls.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B X400P
.I /dev/x400p-ss7
device supports all of the management IO controls described in
.BR sdl_ioctl (4),
.BR sdt_ioctl (4)
and
.BR sl_ioctl (4),
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em 4
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.PP
The
.B X400P
.I /dev/x400p-ch
device supports all of the management IO controls described in
.BR ch_ioctl (4),
and
.BR mx_ioctl (4),
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em 4
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.I /dev/x400p-ss7
device driver is deprecated.  For new applications use the
.I /dev/x400p-ch
driver and push the
.BR sdl (4),
.BR sdt (4),
and
.BR sl (4),
modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
Two drivers is confusing and the deprecated driver must be removed.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR ISDN (4),
.BR MG (4),
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR sdli (7),
.BR sdti (7),
.BR sli (7),
.BR chi (7),
.BR mxi (7),
.BR sdl_ioctl (4),
.BR sdt_ioctl (4),
.BR sl_ioctl (4),
.BR ch_ioctl (4),
.BR mx_ioctl (4),
.BR sdl (4),
.BR sdt (4),
.BR sl (4),
.BR mg (4),
.BR mtp (4),
.BR m2ua (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILES"
.PP
.BR <ss7/lmi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdli.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdti.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sli.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sli_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/chi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/chi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mxi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mxi_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was updated @PACKAGE_DATE@ for
.B @PACKAGE@
release
.BR "@VERSION@" .
.PP
The
.B X400P
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
.BR SS7 (4)
and
.BR ISDN (4)
stacks.
The
.B X400P
driver will first appear in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
At that time, the deprecated
.I /dev/x400p-ss7
driver will be removed.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q702
.]
.[
q703
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
