'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH XAPMOD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Modules"
.SH NAME
.B xapmod
\- a STREAMS XAP compatability interface
.SH INTERFACE
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/xapmod.h>
.HP
.IB p " = open(" /dev/oopi ", " 0 );
.HP
.BI ioctl( p ", " I_PUSH ", " \*(lqxapmod\*(rq );
.HP
.BI iotcl( p ", " I_STR ", " &ic );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR xapmod
is an XAP library compatibility module for the STREAMS ACSE/Presentation
Interface,
.BR XAP (3).
It translates a set of
.BR xapmod
.BR ioctl (2)
commands into PLI primitives or TPI primitives.  These
.BR xapmod
.BR ioctl (2)
commands are intended to be used with the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
XAP Library,
.BR libxap (3).
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
In the sense that it provides input-output controls that accomplish most of the
functionality required by the libraries, the
.BR xapmod
module is termed a \*(lqCooperating Module\*(rq to the libraries.  The resulting
library consists largely of interface, and does not contain much behaviour,
whereas, the module consists largely of behaviour with a direct and simple
input-output control interface provided by
.IR STREAMS .
.PP
One of the major purposes of this approach and the
.BR xapmod
module is to provide thread-safe operations in support of the XAP Library.
.BR xapmod
does not alter any messages passed with
.BR putmsg (2)
or
.BR putpmsg (2s),
or received with
.BR getmsg (2)
or
.BR getpmsg (2s).
.BR xapmod
simply intercepts responses to its own primitives sent downstream as a result
of an
.BR ioctl (2)
command.
.PP
Unlike the
.BR sockmod (4)
module,
.BR xapmod
makes no adjustments to the Stream head for
.BR read (2)
options (see
.BR I_SRDOPT (7)
under
.BR streamio (7)).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B xapmod
STREAMS module is not normally pushed directly by XAP client programs, but is
either pushed or autopushed as necessary, either by the OSI network
configuration daemon,
.BR osinetd (8),
the autopush facility,
.BR autopush (8),
or the XAP Library itself (when
.BR ap_init_env (3)
is called).
Nevertheless, the module may be pushed in a non-portable way by clients of
sufficient privilege to acheive specific effects, such as for testing.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
As it appears that other implementations of the XAP Library are
solely contained in user-space libraries, using IPC for communication with
clients, there is no evident standard upper level service interface for XAP.
Therefore,
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
has specified and implements an XAP service interface modelling the primitives
consistent with the
.BR ap_snd (3)
and
.BR ap_rcv (3)
function descriptions
.\"
and consistent with the ACSE service interface.
.[
x217
.]
.PP
Again, there is no evident standard implementation of a lower level service
interface.  It appears that some XAP Library implementations may use the
Transport Provider Interface (TPI) or the XTI or XTI-mOSI interfaces directly.
Therefore, again,
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
has specified and implements a Presentation Provider Interface (PPI),
.BR PPI (7),
service interface modelling the presentation primitives
consistent with the
.BR ap_snd (3)
and
.BR ap_rcv (3)
function descriptions and the Presentation service interface.
.[
x216
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
Addresses consist of an AP-Title, AE-Qualifier, and Presentation address.  The
Presentation Address (PSAP) consists of a P-Selector and a TSAP.  The TSAP, in
turn, consists of a T-Selector and an NSAP.  The NSAP is an OSI network address.
.PP
Addresses are formatted as described in
.BR ap_env (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Options and option lists are internally formated as described for XTI in
.BR t_optmgmt (3).
Option names and values are as described in
.BR ap_env (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
Primitives supported by the upper level service interface are modelled after
the primitives described in
.BR xap (3)
and are as follows:
.BR A_ASSOC_REQ "(7),
.BR A_ASSOC_IND "(7),
.BR A_ASSOC_RSP "(7),
.BR A_ASSOC_CNF "(7),
.BR A_ABORT_REQ "(7),
.BR A_ABORT_IND "(7),
.BR A_PABORT_REQ "(7),
.BR A_PABORT_IND "(7),
.BR A_RELEASE_REQ "(7),
.BR A_RELEASE_IND "(7),
.BR A_RELEASE_RSP "(7),
.BR A_RELEASE_CNF "(7).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.B xapmod
implements a non-standard (non-traditional) set of input-output controls for
cooperating with the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
XAP Library.  As these input-output controls correspond to, and implement, the
XAP functions,
.BR xap (3).
Because the STREAMS service interface is an inherently asynchronous interface,
it is necessary to use input-output controls to implement synchronous (blocking)
functions.  This can be achieved by using a cooperating module in the manner of
.BR timod (4).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH RETURN
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH ERRORS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Information on this manual page is specific to the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of the corresponding libraries and cooperating modules and will
not be used directly by portable programs.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
It appears from descriptions of the XAP Library
.[
xap c303
.]
that the library has been implemented on a number of OSI implementations as a
user-space daemon library facility that uses IPC to communicate with library
client programs.  Under this approach, the Library daemon process would be
responsible for opening transport or presentation Streams and performing
multiplexing and de-multiplexing between clients.
.PP
The
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation uses this
.B xapmod
cooperating module and a regular shared Library that links into the client's
address space to implement the library.  Also, the
.BR oopi (4)
or similar presentation devices are implemented as a STREAMS multiplexing
driver.  It is the author's contention that a Linux Fast-STREAMS multiplexing
driver is far faster than a single-threaded, full-blown user space process, and
that the multiplexing driver exhibits better scheduling characteristics.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /lib/modules/striso/streams-xapmod.ko
provides the
.B xapmod
STREAMS pushable module named
.RI \(lq xapmod \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.RB \(lq xapmod \(rq
.I STREAMS
module.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR A_ABORT_IND "(7),
.BR A_ABORT_REQ "(7),
.BR A_ASSOC_CNF "(7),
.BR A_ASSOC_IND "(7),
.BR A_ASSOC_REQ "(7),
.BR A_ASSOC_RSP "(7),
.BR A_PABORT_IND "(7),
.BR A_PABORT_REQ "(7),
.BR ap_env "(3),
.BR ap_init_env "(3),
.BR apli "(3),
.BR apmod "(4),
.BR ap_rcv "(3),
.BR ap_snd "(3),
.BR A_RELEASE_CNF "(7),
.BR A_RELEASE_IND "(7),
.BR A_RELEASE_REQ "(7),
.BR A_RELEASE_RSP "(7),
.BR autopush "(8),
.BR getmsg "(2),
.BR getpmsg "(2s),
.BR ioctl "(2),
.BR I_SRDOPT "(7),
.BR libxap "(3),
.BR oopi "(4),
.BR osinetd "(8),
.BR PPI "(7),
.BR putmsg "(2),
.BR putpmsg "(2s),
.BR read "(2),
.BR sockmod "(4),
.BR streamio "(7),
.BR STREAMS "(4),
.BR test-xap "(8),
.BR timod "(4),
.BR t_optmgmt "(3),
.BR XAP "(3),
.BR xap "(3),
.BR xti_mosi "(3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B xapmod
will be tested with the
.BR test-xap (8)
test case executable and autotest conformance test suite.
.B xapmod
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B xapmod
is compatible with XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and descriptions for
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Other implementations do not document any cooperating module nor input-output
controls.  Portable applications should never use input-output controls
directly.
.IP \(em
Other implementations do not document the primitive format between the library
and any cooperating module.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted.  Binary compatibility is not possible due
to the lack of standardized symbolic constants.  Any binary compatibility
experienced is a bug and is scheduled to be removed on the next release.
.PP
See
.BR xti_mosi "(3),
.BR apli "(3),
.BR xap "(3),
.BR oopi "(4),
.BR apmod "(4) and
.BR STREAMS "(4)
for additional compatibility information.
.PP
Compatibility will be tested using the
.BR test-xap (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.PP
Conformance will be tested using the
.BR test-xap (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B xapmod
module is new for
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
.BR "striso version 0.9.2.4" .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
.BR xapmod (4)
module.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
