'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH XOT 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B XOT
\- Cisco X.25 over TCP (XOT)
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B XOT
is an implementation of X.25 PLP over TCP (XOT) as described in RFC 1613.
.[
rfc1613
.]
The RFC describes use of ISO 8881
.[
ISO/IEC 8881:1989
.]
X.25
.[
x25
.]
Packet Layer Protocol over TCP (XOT) using independent TCP connections
to Registered TCP Port Number 1998 as VCs.
.PP
Although RFC 1613
.[
rfc1613
.]
is rather old, and was originally Cisco-specific,
.B XOT
is currently supported by a number of big-iron UNIX vendors, such as
Compaq/DEC and IBM.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Not yet implemented, but here is a stab at explaining the design:
.PP
The following steps would be taken:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
An X.25 PLP connection manager opens a connection management Stream on the
X.25 PLP multiplexing driver, configures routing tables to indicate that the
remote interface available to
.B XOT
are available for demand connections.
.IP 2.
When the X.25 PLP driver wishes to form an SVC to route a call or the user
opens an
.BR npi (7)
Stream on the X.25 PLP driver and attempts to listen on or connect a VC, the
X.25 PLP driver informs the connection manager that a DLPI Stream is required.
.IP 3.
The connection manager takes the information about the request,
opens a
.BR tcp (4)
Stream to the host providing the remote interface on IANA registered port
number 1998.
.IP 4.
The connection manager then pushes the
.B XOT
module onto the
.BR tcp (4)
Stream.i
.IP 5.
Using information in the X.25 PLP connection request, the connection
manager then configures the
.B XOT
Stream using input-output controls or DLPI primitives.
.IP 6.
The connection manager links the resulting
.BR dlpi (7)
stream beneath the X.25 PLP multiplexing driver, configures the link as
normal, and response to the configuration request on the connection management
Stream.
.IP 7.
The X.25 PLP multiplexing driver starts using the DLPI stream just as though
it was a local X.25 LAPB or X.25 LLC2 data link.
The
.B XOT
module intercepts information from the X.25 PLP to affet the convergence
functions described in RFC 1613.
.[
rfc1613
.]
.PP
Another approach would be to move the connection manager Stream one level down
to a
.B XOT
multiplexing driver.  In this case, the first step is to open
.B XOT
streams and to link and configure them beneath the X.25 PLP driver. When
network connections are attempted on the Stream, the XOT driver intercepts the
X.25 PLP packets and peforms VC requests to the connection manager.  The
connection manager then opens and configures
.BR tcp (4)
Streams and links them beneath the XOT multiplexing driver on demand.  That
would probably work better.  Also, this is not too much different than what
would need to be done when providing X.25 PLP using ISDN LAPB in the circuit
switched mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
The service interface to the
.B xot
module is the
.I Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
The
.B xot
address format is a
DLPI interface id.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
All OSI DLPI options apply but perhaps not all can be supported by TCP.
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
.BR dlpi (7)
connection-oriented primitives.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.BR dlpi (7)
defined input-output controls.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
This module is yet to be implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
Implementing
.B xot
may be somewhat cumbersome.  A problem is that RFC 1613
.[
rfc1613
.]
specifies that each X.25 SVC or PVC must use a different TCP connection to
port 1998.
With
.B xot
implemented as a pushable module that can be pushed over a
.BR tcp (4)
Stream (which might also be implemented as a tcp module pushed over an tpi-tcp
Stream), one new Stream must be opened for each SVC.
Now, this might also be the case for CONS over LAN as well as X.25 DLPI
implementations, where the DLPI type II Stream is bound to an interface and
used to create a new SVC with DL_CONNECT_REQ.
.PP
A problem with such an approach is that some sort of connection manager
(daemon) needs to sit listening for requests from the network layer for an SVC
and then open a XOT Stream and link it under a multiplexing driver, or the
user of the network connection must do so themselves.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
.BI /lib/modules/ "`uname -r`" /openss7/streams_xot.ko
the kernel module for the
.B xot
.I STREAMS
module
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.TP
.B xot
is a
.I STREAMS
pushable module named
.RI \(lq xot \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.TP
.B /dev/tcp
The TCP device over which
.B xot
is pushed.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR XOL (7),
.BR ISOT (7),
.BR ITOT (7),
.BR ISO-IP (7),
.BR ISO-TP4 (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
This manpage and the implementation is incomplete.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
None.  I know of no other
.I STREAMS
or
.I Sockets
implementations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
RFC 1613,
.[
rfc1613
.]
DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
X.25,
.[
x25
.]
X.25 PLP.
.[
ISO/IEC 8881:1989
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B xot
module is new to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
