'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: getnettype.3.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-06-18 16:45:23 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-06-18 16:45:23 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: getnettype.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-06-18 16:45:23  brian
.\" - widespread updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-05-03 21:22:35  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-03 11:42:27  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH GETNETTYPE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B getnettype
\- obtain X.25 network type for subnetwork identifier
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
X.25 Network Layer Interface (NLI).
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
X.25 Support Library,
.BR libsx25 (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <netx25/x25_proto.h>
.br
.B #include <netx25/xnetdb.h>
.HP
.BI "int getnettype(unsigned char *" snid );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I snid
The subnetwork or link identifying unsigned character string.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B getnettype
determines the type of the subnetwork identified by the subnetwork string,
\fIsnid\fP, and returns the type of network to which the subnetwork string
corresponds.  To do this, it reads the \fBx25conf\fP(5) configuration file.
.PP
The network type can be one of the following symbolic constants defined in the
\fBxnetdb.h\fP header file:
.TP
.B LAN
the subnetwork identified by \fIsnid\fP is a local area network;
.TP
.B W80
the subnetwork identifier by \fIsnid\fP is a wide area network providing
X.25(1980);
.TP
.B W84
the subnetwork identifier by \fIsnid\fP is a wide area network providing
X.25(1984);
.TP
.B W88
the subnetwork identifier by \fIsnid\fP is a wide area network providing
X.25(1988).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.B getnettype
returns a value equal to one of the symbolic constants indicating the network
type associated with the provided subnetwork id.
Upon failure,
.B getnettype
returns a negative value.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B getnetype
fails when:
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
the supplied \fIsnid\fP was \fBNULL\fP or invalid.
.TP
.RB [ ENOENT ]
the configuration file, \fBx25conf\fP(5), does not exist.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @configdir@/@PACKAGE@/x25conf
The \fBx25conf\fP(5) configuration file read to determine the subnetwork or
link type.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B getnettype
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR x25conf (5),
.BR lltune (8),
.BR libsx25 (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B getnettype
is compatible with
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.I Solstice X.25
.[
solx25pg
.]
refers to the subnetwork identifier as a link identifier.
.IP \(em
Some implementations place header files in different locations:
.I Solstice X.25
.[
solx25pg
.]
includes the \fBxnetdb.h\fP header file from <\fBnetx25/xnetdb.h\fP>.
.I IRIS SX.25
.[
sx25
.]
includes the \fBxnetdb.h\fP header file from <\fBxnetdb.h\fP>.
.I Solstice X.25
.[
solx25pg
.]
includes the \fBx25_proto.h\fP header file from <\fBnetx25/x25_proto.h\fP>.
.I IRIS SX.25
.[
sx25
.]
includes the \fBx25_proto.h\fP header file from <\fBsys/snet/x25_proto.h\fP>.
For
.I IRIS SX.25
.[
sx25
.]
it is necessary to include the \fBx25_proto.h\fP header file.
For
.I Solstice X.25
.[
solx25ag
.]
is is not necessary to include the \fBx25_proto.h\fP header file.
.PP
For additional compatibiltiy information see,
.BR lltune (8),
.BR lapb (4),
.BR llc2 (4),
.BR x25conf (5),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR getnettype
first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
