'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: snidtox25.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-06-18 16:43:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-06-18 16:43:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: snidtox25.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-06-18 16:43:13  brian
.\" - added new files for NLI and DLPI
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-05-03 21:22:36  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-03 11:42:27  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SNIDTOX25 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B snidtox25, linkidtox25
\- convert a subnetwork or link character string to subnetwork or link identifier
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
X.25 Network Layer Interface (NLI).
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
X.25 Support Library,
.BR libsx25 (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <netx25/x25_proto.h>
.br
.B #include <netx25/xnetdb.h>
.HP
.BI "unsigned long snidtox25(unsigned char *" snid );
.HP
.BI "unsigned long linkidtox25(unsigned char *" linkid );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I snid
the unsigned character string subnetwork identifier.
.TP
.I linkid
the unsigned character string link identifier.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Provides a mechanism whereby a user can convert an unsigned character string
representing a subnetwork identifier, \fIsnid\fP, or link identifier,
\fIlinkid\fP, to an unsigned long subnetwork or link identifier (significant to
32-bits), without knowledge of the details of the conversion.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success
.BR snidtox25 " and " linkidtox25
return the unsigned long subnetwork identifier or link identifier,
respectively.  These identifiers are non-negative numbers.
Upon failure,
.BR snidtox25 " and " linkidtox25
return minus one (-1UL).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR snidtox25 " or " linkidtox25
fail when:
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
the supplied unsigned character string, \fIsnid\fP or \fIlinkid\fP was
\fBNULL\fP or invalid.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR snidtox25 " and " linkidtox25
have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR x25tosnid (3),
.BR x25tolinkid (3),
.BR libsx25 (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR snidtox25 " and " linkidtox25
are compatible with
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.I Solstice X.25
.[
solx25pg
.]
refers to the subnetwork identifier as a link identifier.
.PP
For additional compatibiltiy information see,
.BR libsx25 (3),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B snidtoX25
first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.B linkidtox25
first appeared in
.IR "Solstice X.25".
.[
solx25pg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
