'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sx25.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-10-28 17:54:27 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-10-28 17:54:27 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sx25.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-10-28 17:54:27  brian
.\" - manpage updates
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH SX25 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sx25, SX25, libsx25
\- X.25 Library
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
X.25
.[
x25
.]
support functions.
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
X.25 Support Library,
.BR libsx25 (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <netx25/x25_proto.h>
.br
.B #include <netx25/xnetdb.h>
.ad l
.hy 0
.HP 12
.BI "void setpadent(int " stayopen );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int getnettype(unsigned char *" snid );
.HP
.BI "struct padent *getpadbyaddr(char *" addr );
.HP
.BI "struct padent *getpadent(void);
.HP
.BI "void endpadent(void);
.HP
.BI "int padtos(struct padent *" p ", unsigned char *" strp );
.PD
.HP
.BI "void setxhostent(int " stayopen );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "struct xhostent *getxhostbyaddr(char *" addr ", int " len ", int " type );
.HP
.BI "struct xhostent *getxhostbyname(char *" name );
.HP
.BI "struct xhostent *getxhostent(void);
.HP
.BI "void endxhostent(void);
.PD
.HP
.BI "unsigned long snidtox25(unsigned char *" snid );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int x25tosnid(unsigned long " snid ", unsigned char *" str_snid );
.HP
.BI "unsigned long linkidtox25(unsigned char *" linkid );
.HP
.BI "int x25tolinkid(unsigned long " linkid ", unsigned char *" str_linkid );
.PD
.HP
.BI "int stox25(unsigned char *" cp ", struct xaddrf *" xad ", int " lookup );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int x25tos(struct xaddrf *" xad ", unsigned char *" cp ", int " lookup );
.HP
.BI "int equalx25(struct xaddrf *" x1 ", struct xaddrf *" x2 );
.PD
.HP
.BI "int (*x25_set_parse_error_function(int (*" func ")(char *)))(char *);
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int x25_read_config_parameters(int " linkid ", struct config_ident *" ipt ", struct LINK_config_data *" lpt ", struct X25_config_data *" xpt ", struct MLP_config_data *" mpt ", struct LAPB_config_data *" lpb ", struct LLC2_config_data *" l2p ", struct WAN_config_data *" wpt ", int *" flags );
.HP
.BI "int x25_read_config_parameters_file(char *" filename ", struct config_ident *" ipt ", struct LINK_config_data *" lpt ", struct X25_config_data *" xpt ", struct MLP_config_data *" mpt ", struct LAPB_config_data *" lbp ", struct LLC_config_data *" l2p ", struct WAN_config_data *" wpt ", int *" flags );
.HP
.BI "int x25_find_link_parameters(struct link_data **" lptr );
.HP
.BI "int x25_save_link_parameters(struct link_data *" linkid );
.HP
.BI "int x25_write_config_parameters(int " linkid ", struct config_ident *" ipt ", struct LINK_config_data *" lpt ", struct X25_config_data *" xpt ", struct MLP_config_data *" mpt ", struct LAPB_config_data *" lbp ", struct LLC2_config_data *" l2p ", struct WAN_config_data *" wpt );
.HP
.BI "int x25_write_config_parameters_file(char *" filename ", struct config_ident *" ipt ", struct LINK_config_data *" lpt ", struct X25_config_data *" xpt ", struct MLP_config_data *" mpt ", struct LAPB_config_data *" lbp ", struct LLC2_config_data *" l2p ", struct WAN_config_data *" wpt );
.PD
.ad b
.hy
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
.B libsx25
is an
.B OpenSS7
implementation of the X.25 Library for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
lfs
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B libsx25
implements the following X.25 API library functions:
.\"
.SS Pad Database Functions
.PP
.TP \w'\fBgetpadbyaddr\fR(3)\(em'u
.BR setpadent (3)
opens or reopens the
.BR padent (5)
file and rewinds to the start of the file.
.PD 0
.TP
.BR getnettype (3)
.TP
.BR getpadbyaddr (3)
.TP
.BR getpadent (3)
gets the next entry in the
.BR padent (5)
file, opening the file if required.
.TP
.BR endpadent (3)
closes the
.BR padent (5)
file.
.TP
.BR padtos (3)
.PD
.\"
.SS X.25 Host Database Functions
.PP
.TP \w'\fBgetxhostbyname\fR(3)\(em'u
.BR setxhostent (3)
.PD 0
.TP
.BR getxhostbyaddr (3)
.TP
.BR getxhostbyname (3)
.TP
.BR getxhostent (3)
.TP
.BR endxhostent (3)
.PD
.\"
.SS X.25 Link/Subnetwork Database Functions
.PP
.TP \w'\fBx25tolinkid\fR(3)\(em'u
.BR snidtox25 (3)
.PD 0
.TP
.BR x25tosnid (3)
.TP
.BR linkidtox25 (3)
.TP
.BR x25tolinkid (3)
.PD
.\"
.SS X.25 Address Functions
.PP
.TP \w'\fBequalx25\fR(3)\(em'u
.BR stox25 (3)
.PD 0
.TP
.BR x25tos (3)
.TP
.BR equalx25 (3)
.PD
.\"
.SS X.25 Configuration Functions
.PP
.TP \w'\fBx25_write_config_parameters_file\fR(3)\(em'u
.BR x25_set_parse_error_function (3)
.PD 0
.TP
.BR x25_read_config_parameters (3)
.TP
.BR x25_read_config_parameters_file (3)
.TP
.BR x25_find_link_parameters (3)
.TP
.BR x25_save_link_parameters (3)
.TP
.BR x25_write_config_parameters (3)
.TP
.BR x25_write_config_parameters_file (3)
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
These functions normally return
.BR void ,
return an integer value,
.BR int ,
where zero
.RB ( 0 )
indicates success and minus one
.RB ( -1 )
indicates failure, or return a pointer to the appropriate database or address structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Handling of error numbers is not specified in the
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although it would appear that the
.BR xhosts (5)
database would be handled using either local files
.RB ( /etc/xhosts ),
Berkeley adatabases, or NIS maps, under
.IR UNIX \(rg,
it has traditionally only been implemented using flat files.  Although NIS extensions would be nice;
unfortunately, it is not easy to add a database to the
.I glibc
.BR libnsl .
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR setpadent (3),
.BR getnettype (3),
.BR getpadbyaddr (3),
.BR getpadent (3),
.BR endpadent (3),
.BR padtos (3),
.BR setxhostent (3),
.BR getxhostbyaddr (3),
.BR getxhostbyname (3),
.BR getxhostent (3),
.BR endxhostent (3),
.BR snidtox25 (3),
.BR x25tosnid (3),
.BR linkidtox25 (3),
.BR x25tolinkid (3),
.BR stox25 (3),
.BR x25tos (3),
.BR equalx25 (3),
.BR x25_set_parse_error_function (3),
.BR x25_read_config_parameters (3),
.BR x25_read_config_parameters_file (3),
.BR x25_find_link_parameters (3),
.BR x25_save_link_parameters (3),
.BR x25_write_config_parameters (3),
.BR x25_write_config_parameters_file (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The SX25 library has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The SX25 library functions are compatible with
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
such as
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
with the following compatibilty considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
refers to the subnetwork identifier as a link identifier.
.IP \(em
Some implementations place header files in different locations:
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
includes the
.B xnetdb.h
header file from
.RB < netx25/xnetdb.h >.
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
includes the
.B xnetdb.h
header file from
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
includes the
.B x25_proto.h
header file from
.RB < netx25/x25_proto.h >.
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
includes the
.B x25_proto.h
header file from
.RB < sys/snet/X25_proto.h >.
For
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
it is necessary to include the
.B x25_proto.h
header file.  For
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
it is not necessary to include the
.B x25_proto.h
header file.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.BR libsx25
library first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 X25 Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
