'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: close.2s.man,v 1.1.2.1 2011-02-07 02:14:39 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:14:39 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: close.2s.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2011-02-07 02:14:39  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CLOSE 2S "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B close
\- close a file descriptor
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <unistd.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int close(int " fildes  );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fildes
The file descriptor to close.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B close ()
function shall deallocate the file descriptor indicated by
.IR fildes .
To deallocate means to make the file descriptor available for return by
subsequent calls to
.BR open (2s)
or other functions that allocate file descriptors.  All outstanding record
locks owned by the process on the file associated with the file descriptor
shall be removed (that is, unlocked).
.PP
When
.BR close ()
is interrupted by a signal that is to be caught, it shall return minus one
.RB ( -1 )
with
.IR errno (3)
set to
.RB [ EINTR ]
and the state of the
.I fildes
unspecified.  If an I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the
file system during
.BR close (),
it may return minus one
.RB ( -1 )
with
.IR errno (3)
set to
.RB [ EIO ];
if this error is returned, the state of
.I fildes
is unspecified.
.PP
When all file descriptors associated with a pipe or FIFO special file are
closed, any data remaining in the pipe or FIFO shall be discarded.
When all file descriptors associated with an open file description have been
closed, the open file description shall be freed.
.PP
When the link count of the file is zero
.RB ( 0 ),
when all file descriptors associated with the file are closed, the space
occupied by the file shall be freed and the file shall no longer be
accessible.
.PP
When a
.IR STREAMS -based
.I fildes
is closed and the calling process was previously registered to receive a
.RI { SIGPOLL }
signal for events associated with that Stream, the calling process shall be
unregistered for events associated with the Stream.  The last
.BR close ()
for a Stream shall cause the Stream associated with
.I fildes
to be dismantled.  When
.B O_NONBLOCK
is not set and there have been no signals posted for the Stream, and when
there is data on the module's write queue,
.BR close ()
shall wait for an unspecified time (for each module and driver) for any
output to drain before dismantling the Stream.  The time delay can be changed
with the
.BR I_SETCLTIME (7)
.BR ioctl (2s)
request.  When the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag is set, or when there are any pending signals,
.BR close ()
shall not wait for output to drain, and shall dismantle the Stream
immediately.
.PP
When
.I fildes
is associated with one end of a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe, the last
.BR close ()
shall cause a hangup to occur on the other end of the pipe.  Also, when the
other end of the pipe has been named by
.BR fattach (2),
then the last
.BR close ()
shall force the named end to be detached by
.BR fdetach (2s).
When the named end has no open file descriptors associated with it and gets
detached, the Stream associated with that end shall also be dismantled.
.PP
When
.I fildes
refers to the master side of a pseudo-terminal, and this is the last close, a
.RI { SIGHUP }
signal shall be sent to the controlling process, if any, for which the slave
side of the pseudo-terminal is the controlling terminal.  It is unspecified
whether closing the master side of the pseudo-terminal flushes all queue
input and output.
.PP
When
.I fildes
refers to the slave side of a
.IR STREAMS -based
pseudo-terminal, a zero-length message may be sent to the master.
.PP
When there is an outstanding cancelable asynchronous I/O operation against
.I fildes
when
.BR close ()
was called, that I/O operation may be cancelled.  An I/O operation that is
not cancelled completes as if the
.BR close ()
operation had not yet occurred.  All operations that are not cancelled shall
complete as if the
.BR close ()
blocked until the operations completed.  Whether any I/O operation is
cancelled, and which I/O operation may be cancelled upon
.BR close ()
is implementation defined.
.PP
When a shared memory object or a memory mapped file remains referenced at the
last close (that is, a process has it mapped), then the entire contents of
the memory object shall persist until the memory object becomes unreferenced.
When this is the last close of a shared memory object or a memory mapped file
and the close results in the memory object becoming unreferenced, and the
memory object has been unlinked, then the memory object shall be removed.
.PP
When
.I fildes
refers to a socket,
.BR close ()
shall cause the socket to be destroyed.  When the socket is in
connection-mode, and the
.B SO_LINGER
option is set for the socket with non-zero linger time, and the socket has
untransmitted data, then
.BR close ()
shall block for up to the current linger interval until all data is
transmitted.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, zero
.RB ( 0 )
is returned; otherwise, minus one
.RB ( -1 )
shall be returned and
.IR errno (3)
set to indicate an error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The
.BR close ()
function shall fail when:
.TP \w'[EINTR]\(em\(em'u
.RB [ EBADF ]
The
.I fildes
argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
The
.BR close ()
function was interrupted by a signal.
.PP
The
.BR close ()
function may fail when:
.TP \w'[EINTR]\(em\(em'u
.RB [ EIO ]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.\"
.\"
.SH MT-LEVEL
.PP
.BR close ()
is MT-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Not checking the return value of
.BR close ()
is a common but nevertheless serious programming error.  It is quite possible
that errors on a previous
.BR write (2s)
operation are first reported at the final
.BR close ().
Not checking the return value when closing the file may lead to silent loss
of data.  This can especially be observed with NFS and with disk quota.
.PP
A successful close does not guarantee that the data has been successfully
saved to disk, as the kernel defers writes.  It is not common for a file
system to flush the buffers when the stream is closed.  When you need to be
sure that the data is physically stored use
.BR fsync (2).
(It will depend on the disk hardware at this point.)
.PP
It is probably unwise to close file descriptors while they may be in use by
system calls in other threads in the same process.  Since a file descriptor
may be re-used, there are some obscure race conditions that may cause
unintended side effects.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR close ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.IR STREAMS (4),
.BR fattach (2),
.BR fclose (3),
.BR fdetach (2s),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR open (2s).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR close ()
is compatible with SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3,
.[
susv3
.]
POSIX,
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
with the following exceptions:
.PP
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
only affects the use of
.BR close ()
on
.I STREAMS
special files.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3,
.[
susv3
.]
POSIX.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS\c
.
.[
@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR close ()
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
