'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2015  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH OPEN 2S "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B open
\- open a file
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.BR
.B #include <fcntl.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int open(const char *" path ", int " oflag ", ... );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I path
the filesystem path to the file to open.
.PD 0
.TP
.I oflag
open flags.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR open ()
function shall establish the connection between a file and a file descriptor.
It shall create an open file description that refers to a file and a file
descriptor that refers to that open file description.  The file descriptor is
used by other I/O functions to refer to that file.  The
.I path
argument points to a pathname naming the file.
.PP
The
.BR open ()
function shall return a file descriptor for the named file that is the lowest
file descriptor not currently open for that process.  The open file
description is new, and therefore the file descriptor shall not share it with
any other process in the system.  The
.B FD_CLOEXEC
file descriptor flag associated with the new file descriptor shall be cleared.
.PP
The file offset used to mark the current position of the open file
description shall be set according to then value of
.IR oflag .
.\"
.\"
.SS FLAGS
.PP
Values for
.I oflag
are constructed by a bitwise-inclusive OR of flags from the following list,
defined in
.BR <fcntl.h> .
Applications shall specify exactly one of the first three values (file access
modes) below in the value of
.IR oflag :
.TP \w'[O_NONBLOCK]\(em'u
.B O_RDONLY
Open for reading only.
.TP
.B O_WRONLY
Open for writing only.
.TP
.B O_RDWR
Open for reading and writing.  The result is undefined if this flag is
applied to a FIFO.
.PP
Any combination of the following may be used:
.TP \w'[O_NONBLOCK]\(em'u
.B O_APPEND
When set, the file offset shall be set to the end of the file prior to each
write.
.TP
.B O_ASYNC
Enable signal-driven I/O: generate a signal
.RI ({ SIGIO }
by default, but this can be changed with
.BR fcntl (2))
when input or output becomes possible on this file descriptor.  This feature
is only available for terminals, pseudo-terminals, sockets, and (since
.BR "Linux 2.6" )
pipes, FIFOs and
.IR STREAMS .
See
.BR fcntl (2)
for further details.
.TP
.B O_CLOEXEC
(Since
.BR "Linux 2.6.23" )
Enable the close-on-exec flag for the new file descriptor.  Specifying this
flag permits a program to avoid an additional
.BR fcntl (2)
.B F_SETFD
operation to set the
.B FD_CLOEXEC
flag.  Additionally, use of this flag is essential in some multithreaded
programs since using a separate
.BR fcntl (2)
.B F_SETFD
operation to set the
.B FD_CLOEXEC
flag does not suffice to avoid race conditions where one thread opens a file
descriptor at the same time as another thread does a
.BR fork (2)
plus
.BR execve (2).
.TP
.B O_CREAT
When the file exists, this flag has no effect as noted under
.B O_EXCL
below.  Otherwise, the file shall be created; the user ID of the file shall
be set to the effective user ID of the process; the group ID of the file
shall be set to the group ID of the file's parent directory or to the
effective group ID of the process; and the access permission bits (see
.BR <sys/stat.h> )
of the file mode shall be set to the value of the third argument taken as
type
.B mode_t
modified as follows: a bitwise AND is performed on the file-mode bits and the
corresponding bits in the complement of the process' file mode creation mask.
Thus, all bits in the file mode whose corresponding bit in the file mode
creation mask is set are cleared.  When bits other than the file permission
bits are set, the effect is unspecified.  The third argument does not affect
whether the file is open for reading, writing, or for both.  Implementations
shall provide a way to initialize the file's group ID to the group ID of the
parent directory.  Implementations may, but need not, provide an
implementation-defined way to initialize the file's group ID to the effective
group ID of the calling process.
.TP
.B O_DIRECT
(Since Linux 2.4.10)
Try to minimize cache effects of the I/O to and from this file.  In general
this will degrade performance, but it is useful in special situations, such
as when applications do their own caching.  File I/O is done directly to and
from user space buffers.  The I/O is synchronous, that is, at the completion
of a
.BR read (2s)
or
.BR write (2s),
data is guaranteed to have been transferred.
.TP
.B O_DIRECTORY
When
.I path
is not a directory, cause the open to fail.  This flag is Linux-specific, and
was added in kernel version 2.1.126 to avoid denial-of-service problems when
.BR opendir (3)
is called on a FIFO or tape device, but should not be used outside of the
implementation of
.BR opendir (3).
.TP
.B O_DSYNC
Write I/O operations on the file descriptor shall complete as defined by
synchronized I/O data integrity completion.
.TP
.B O_EXCL
When
.BR O_CREAT " and " O_EXCL
are set,
.BR open ()
shall fail if the file exists.  The check for the existence of the file and
the creation of the file if it does not exist shall be atomic with respect to
other threads executing
.BR open ()
naming the same filename in the same directory with
.BR O_EXCL " and " O_CREAT
set.  When
.BR O_EXCL " and " O_CREAT
are set, and
.I path
names a symbolic link,
.BR open ()
shall fail and set
.IR errno (3)
to
.RB [ EEXIST ],
regardless of the contents of the symbolic link.  When
.B O_EXCL
is set and
.B O_CREAT
is not set, the result is undefined.
.TP
.B O_LARGEFILE
Allow files whose sizes cannot be represented by an
.B off_t
(but can be represented by
.BR off64_t )
to be opened.  The
.B _LARGEFILE64_SOURCE
macro must be defined to obtain this definition.  Setting the
.B _FILE_OFFSET_BITS
feature test macro to 64 (rather than using
.BR O_LARGEFILE )
is the preferred method of accessing large files on 32-bit systems (see
.BR feature_test_macros (7)).
.TP
.B O_NOATIME
(Since
.BR "Linux 2.6.8" )
Do not update the file last access time
.RI ( st_atime
in the inode) when this file processes
.BR read (2s).
This flag is intended for use by indexing or backup programs, where it use
can significantly reduce the amount of disk activity.  This flag may not be
effective on all file systems.  One example is NFS, where the server
maintains the access time.
.TP
.B O_NOCTTY
When set and
.I path
identifies a terminal device,
.BR open ()
shall not cause the terminal device to become the controlling terminal for
the process.
.TP
.B O_NOFOLLOW
When
.I path
is a symbolic link, then the open fails.  This is a FreeBSD extension, which
was added to Linux in version 2.1.126.  Symbolic links in earlier components
of the pathname will still be followed.
.TP
.BR O_NONBLOCK " or " O_NDELAY
When opening a
.BR fifo "(4s) with " O_RDONLY " or " O_WRONLY
set:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
When
.B O_NONBLOCK
is set, an
.BR open ()
for reading-only shall return without delay.  An
.BR open ()
for writing-only shall return an error when no process currently has the file
open for reading.
.IP \(em
When
.B O_NONBLOCK
is clear, an
.BR open ()
for reading-only shall block the calling thread until a thread opens the file
for writing.  An
.BR open ()
for writing-only shall block the calling thread until a thread opens the file
for reading.
.RE
.IP
When opening a block special or character special file that supports
non-blocking opens:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
When
.B O_NONBLOCK
is set, the
.BR open ()
function shall return without blocking for the device to be ready or
available.  Subsequent behaviour of the device is device-specific.
.IP \(em
When
.B O_NONBLOCK
is clear, the
.BR open ()
function shall block the calling thread until the device is ready or
available before returning.
.RE
.IP
Otherwise, the behaviour of
.B O_NONBLOCK
is unspecified.
.TP
.B O_RSYNC
Read I/O operations on the file descriptor shall complete at the same level
of integrity as specified by the
.BR O_DSYNC " and " O_SYNC
flags.  When both
.BR O_DSYNC " and " O_RSYNC
are set in
.IR oflag ,
all I/O operations on the file descriptor shall complete as defined by
synchronized I/O data integrity completion.  When both
.BR O_SYNC " and " O_RSYNC
are set in
.IR oflag ,
all I/O operations on the file descriptor shall complete as defined by
synchronized I/O file integrity completion.
.TP
.B O_SYNC
Write I/O operations on the file descriptor shall complete as defined by
synchronized I/O file integrity completion.
.TP
.B O_TRUNC
When the file exists and is a regular file, and the file is successfully
opened for
.BR O_RDWR " or " O_WRONLY ,
its length shall be truncated to zero
.RB ( 0 ),
and the mode and owner shall be unchanged.  It shall have no effect on
.BR fifo (4s)
special files or terminal device files.  Its effect on other file types is
implementation-defined.  The result of using
.BR O_TRUNC " with " O_RDONLY
is undefined.
.PP
When
.B O_CREAT
is set and the file did not previously exist, upon successful completion,
.BR open ()
shall mark for update the
.IR st_ctime " and " st_mtime
fields of the file.
.PP
When
.B O_TRUNC
is set and the file did previously exist, upon successful completion,
.BR open ()
shall mark for update the
.IR st_ctime " and " st_mtime
fields of the file.
.PP
When both
.BR O_SYNC " and " O_DSYNC
flags are set, the effect is as if only the
.B O_SYNC
flag was set.
.PP
When
.I path
refers to a
.I STREAMS
file,
.I oflag
may be constructed from
.B O_NONBLOCK
OR'ed with either
.BR O_RDONLY ", " O_WRONLY " or " O_RDWR .
Other flag values are not applicable to
.I STREAMS
devices and shall have no effect on them.  The value
.B O_NONBLOCK
affects the operation of
.I STREAMS
drivers and certain functions applied to file descriptors associated with
.I STREAMS
files.  For
.I STREAMS
drivers, the implementation of
.B O_NONBLOCK
is device-specific.
.PP
When
.I path
names the master side of a pseudo-terminal device, then it is unspecified
whether
.BR open ()
locks the slave side so that it cannot be opened.  Conforming applications
shall call
.BR unlockpt ()
before opening the slave side.
.PP
The largest value that can be represented correctly in an object of type
.B off_t
shall be established as the offset maximum in the open file description.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, the function shall open the file and return a
non-negative integer representing the lowest numbered unused file descriptor.
Otherwise, minus one
.RB ( -1 )
shall be returned an
.IR errno (3)
shall be set to indicate the error.  No files shall be created or modified
when the function returns minus one
.RB ( -1 ).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The
.BR open ()
function shall fail when:
.TP \w'[ENAMETOOLONG]\(em'u
.RB [ EACCES ]
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix, or the file
exists and the permissions specified by
.I oflag
are denied, or the file does not exist and write permission is denied for the
parent directory of the file to be crated, or
.B O_TRUNC
is specified and write permission is denied.
.TP
.RB [ EEXIST ]
.BR O_CREAT " and " O_EXCL
are set, and the named file exists.
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
A signal was caught during
.BR open ().
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The implementation does not support synchronized I/O for this file.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
The path argument names a
.I STREAMS
file and a hangup or error occurred during the
.BR open ().
.TP
.RB [ EISDIR ]
The named file is a directory and
.I oflag
includes
.BR O_WRONLY " or " O_RDWR .
.TP
.RB [ ELOOP ]
A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the
.I path
argument.
.TP
.RB [ EMFILE ]
.RI { OPEN_MAX }
file descriptors are currently open in the calling process.
.TP
.RB [ ENAMETOOLONG ]
The length of the path argument exceeds
.RI { PATH_MAX }
or a pathname component is longer than
.RI { NAME_MAX }.
.TP
.RB [ ENFILE ]
The maximum allowable number of files is currently open in the system.
.TP
.RB [ ENOENT ]
.B O_CREAT
is not set and the named file does not exist; or
.B O_CREAT
is set and either the
.I path
prefix does not exist or the
.I path
argument points to an empty string.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
The
.I path
argument names a
.IR STREAMS -based
file and the system is unable to allocate a Stream.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSPC ]
The directory or file system that would contain the new file cannot be
expanded, the file does not exist, and
.B O_CREAT
is specified.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTDIR ]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.B O_NONBLOCK
is set, the named file is a
.BR fifo (4s),
.B O_WRONLY
is set, and no process has the file open for reading.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
The named file is a character special or block special file, and the device
associated with this special file does not exist.
.TP
.RB [ EOVERFLOW ]
The named file is a regular file and the size of the file cannot be
represented correctly in an object of type
.BR off_t .
.TP
.RB [ EROFS ]
The named file resides on a read-only file system and either
.BR O_WRONLY ", " O_RDWR ", " O_CREAT
(when the file does not exist), or
.B O_TRUNC
is set in the
.I oflag
argument.
.PP
The
.BR open ()
function may fail when:
.TP \w'[ENAMETOOLONG]\(em'u
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
The
.I path
argument names the slave side of a pseudo-terminal device that is locked.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The value of the
.I oflag
argument is not valid.
.TP
.RB [ ELOOP ]
More than
.RI { SYMLOOP_MAX }
symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the
.I path
argument.
.TP
.RB [ ENAMETOOLONG ]
As a result of encountering a symbolic link in resolution of the
.I path
argument, the length of the substituted pathname string exceeded
.RI { PATH_MAX }.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
The path argument names a
.I STREAMS
file and the system is unable to allocate resources.
.TP
.RB [ ETXTBSY ]
The file is a pure procedure (shared text) file that is being executed and
.I oflag
is
.BR O_WRONLY " or " O_RDWR .
.\"
.\"
.SH MT-LEVEL
.PP
.BR open ()
is MT-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Features for
.I STREAMS
is only supported by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@\c
.
.[
@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR open ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR chmod (2),
.BR close (2s),
.BR creat (2),
.BR dup (2),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR lseek (2),
.BR read (2s),
.BR umask (2),
.BR unlockpt (3),
.BR write (2s),
.BR fork (2),
.BR execve (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR open ()
is compatible with SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3,
.[
susv3
.]
POSIX,
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR O_ASYNC ", " O_CLOEXEC ", " O_DIRECT ", " O_DIRECTORY ", " O_LARGEFILE ", "
.BR O_NOATIME ", " O_NOFOLLOW
are Linux-specific flags and will not be used by conforming applications.
.IP \(em
.BR O_RSYNC " and " O_DSYNC
are not supported by Linux.
.IP \(em
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
also supports the
.B O_ASYNC
flag for
.IR STREAMS .
.PP
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
only affects the use of
.BR open ()
on
.I STREAMS
special files.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3,
.[
susv3
.]
POSIX.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS\c
.
.[
@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR open ()
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
