@c @setfilename uslbsd.info

@node BSD/USL Combined License
@section BSD/USL Combined License
@cindex license, BSD
@cindex license, BSD/USL combined

@sp 2
@center BSD/USL COMBINED LICENSE

Copyright @copyright{} 1982, 1986, 1988 @*
The Regents of the University of California @*
All Rights Reserved.

@copyright{} UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.

All or some portions of this file are derived from material licensed to the @cite{University of
California} by @cite{American Telephone and Telegraph @abbr{Co.}} or @cite{UNIX System Laboratories,
@abbr{Inc.}} and are reproduced herein with the permission of @cite{UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.}

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted
provided that the following conditions are met:

@enumerate 1
@item 
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions, and
the following disclaimer.

@item
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions,
and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.

@item
All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following
acknowledgment:

@quotation
This product includes software developed by the @cite{University of California, Berkeley}, and its
contributors.
@end quotation

@item
Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or
promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
@end enumerate

@sc{@b{THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS, OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF
THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.}}

