'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: freenetconfigent.3.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-28 22:11:45 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 22:11:45 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: freenetconfigent.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-28 22:11:45  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/09/26 00:51:20  brian
.\" - corrected macro file name, reordered includes
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/25 12:30:49  brian
.\" - added files for new strnsl package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/09/22 20:54:21  brian
.\" - added TI-RPC references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/17 23:36:57  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strnsl.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strnsl.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH FREENETCONFIGENT 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B freenetconfigent
\- free a network selection database entry
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #include <netconfig.h>
.HP
.BI "void freenetconfigent(struct netconfig *" nc );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I nc
A pointer to a network selection database entry,
.BR netconfig (5),
that was returned by a call to
.BR getnetconfigent (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.IR UNIX \(rg
has traditionally provided three components of the Network Services Library,
.BR libnsl ,
that are associated with Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9)
network pseudo-device drivers, and that are not currently part of the
.B Linux
Network Services Library.  These components are:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
Network Configuration database access, see
.BR netconfig (3).
.PD 0
.IP 2.
Network Path access, see
.BR netpath (3).
.IP 3.
Name-to-Address Translation, see
.BR netdir (3).
.PD
.PP
The first two are often refered to as the Network Selection facility of the
Network Services Library.
.PP
The
.BR netconfig (3)
component (of which
.BR freenetconfigent ()
is a member) consists of an interface that provides a set of Network
Configuration database access subroutines for accessing the Network
Configuration database contained in the
.BR /etc/netconfig ,
.BR netconfig (5),
file:
.BR setnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR endnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfigent (3),
.BR freenetconfigent (),
.BR nc_perror "(3) and "
.BR nc_sperror (3).
.PP
Of these,
.BR getnetconfigent (3)
and
.BR freenetconfigent ()
provide a mechanism to access Network Configuration database entries by
network identification name strings.
.PP
.BR freenetconfigent ()
frees the network configuration entry returned as a pointer to a
.B netconfig
structure, from a previous call to
.BR getnetconfigent (3).
.BR freenetconfigent ()
must be called for each call to
.BR getnetconfigent (3)
with the corresponding
.I nc
pointer as the argument.
.PP
.BR nc_perror (3)
and
.BR nc_sperror (3)
provide a mechanism for providing diagnostic messages upon failure.  These
subroutines can be used for this
.B netconfig
subroutines, as well as
.BR netpath (3)
subroutines.
.\"
.\"
.SS "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
The format of the
.B /etc/netconfig
Network Configuration database file is as described in
.BR netconfig (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR nc_perror (3)
and
.BR nc_sperror (3)
must be called immediately after the failed network configuration subroutine
fails.  Otherwise, the error condition may be lost.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
.BR freenetconfigent ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR freenetconfigent ()
is always successful.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See
.BR netconfig (5).
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.so
The X/Open Network Services Library shared object library.
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.a
The X/Open Network Services Library static library.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR getnetconfigent (3),
.BR setnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR netconfig (5),
.BR netpath (3),
.BR nc_perror (3),
.BR nc_sperror (3),
.BR netdir (3),
.IR "RFC 1833" .
.[
rfc1833
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR freenetconfigent ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR freenetconfigent ()
is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
describe the
.BR nc_sperror (3)
subroutine as returning a pointer to thread-specific data and that the buffer
could change at any point.  While the error value is saved as thread-specific
data, this implementation of
.BR nc_sperror (3)
returns a pointer to a shared read-only string that is valid for the duration
of the calling process.
.IP \(em
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
stores the error condition in
.IR nc_error (3).
.IP \(em
Diagnostic message strings are not documented and are incompatible.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility would only be coincidental.
.IP \(em
On
.IR UNIX \(rg
systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of the Network Services
Library,
.BR libnsl ;
however,
.B Linux
already has a library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these
components), and, therefore,
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
renames the library to
.BR libxnsl (3).
.PP
See
.BR libxnsl (3)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Selection subroutines first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
These subroutines are related to the
.IR UNIX \(rg
.BR STREAMS (9)
implementation of network transport providers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
