'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: netdir_getbyaddr.3.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-28 22:11:45 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 22:11:45 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: netdir_getbyaddr.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-28 22:11:45  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/09/26 00:51:20  brian
.\" - corrected macro file name, reordered includes
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/25 12:30:49  brian
.\" - added files for new strnsl package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/09/22 20:54:21  brian
.\" - added TI-RPC references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/17 23:36:57  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strnsl.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strnsl.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH NETDIR_GETBYNAME 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B netdir_getbyaddr, _netdir_getbyaddr
\- lookup host and service names in directory service by address
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <netdir.h>
.ad l
.hy 0
.HP 12
.BI "int netdir_getbyaddr(struct netconfig *" config ", struct nd_hostservlist **" services ", struct netbuf *" addr );
.HP
.BI "struct nd_hostservlist *_netdir_getbyaddr(struct netconfig *" config ", struct netbuf *" addr );
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP \w'\fIservices\fR\(em'u
.I config
A pointer to a
.BR netconfig (5)
structure describing the network transport provider returned by
.BR getnetconfig (3)
or
.BR getnetpath (3).
.TP
.I services
A pointer to a
.B nd_hostservlist
structure pointer into which to return the name(s) of host services.
.TP
.I addr
A pointer to a
.B netbuf
structure describing the transport address.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.PP
.IR UNIX \(rg
has traditionally provided three components of the Network Services Library,
.BR libnsl ,
that are associated with Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9)
network pseudo-device drivers, and that are not currently part of the
.B Linux
Network Services Library.  These components are:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
Network Configuration database access, see
.BR netconfig (3).
.PD 0
.IP 2.
Network Configuration database Path access, see
.BR netpath (3).
.IP 3.
Network Directory Name and Address Service, see
.BR netdir (3).
.PD
.PP
These are often refered to as the Network Selection facility of the Network
Services Library.
.PP
.BR netdir_getbyaddr ()
provides a reverse directory name service for the network transport protocol specified with a
pointer to a
.BR netconfig (5)
structure,
.IR config .
The
.I config
pointer is acquired using the
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfigent (3)
or
.BR getnetpath (3)
subroutines and describes a particular transport protocol from the
.BR netconfig (5)
network configuration database.
The address to reverse lookup is specified as a pointer to a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure,
.IR addr ,
that contains the transport address.
.BR netdir_getbyaddr ()
returns into the pointer referenced by
.I services
a pointer to a
.B nd_hostservlist
structure that contains the host and service name tuples associated with the address,
.IR addr .
.PP
Once the
.B nd_hostservlist
structure and the
.B nd_hostserv
structures that it contains are no longer required, they are freed by passing a pointer to the
structure to
.BR netdir_free (3)
with a
.I struct_type
argument of
.BR ND_HOSTSERVLIST .
.\"
.\"
.SH "STRUCTURE FORMAT"
.PP
The
.B netbuf
structure is defined in
.RB < xti.h >
and described in
.BR netbuf (3).
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.BR netconfig
structure is defined in
.RB < netconfig.h >
and described in
.BR netconfig (3)
and
.BR netconfig (5).
.\"
.\"
.PP
Upon successful return, the pointer referenced by
.I services
pointer, points to an allocated
.B nd_hostservlist
structure containing the host and service name tuples associated with the specified address,
.IR addr .
The
.B nd_hostservlist
structure is defined in
.RB < netconfig.h >
and is structured as follows:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct nd_hostservlist {
    int *h_cnt;  /* number of hostservs found */
    struct hostserv *h_hostservs;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIh_hostservs\fR\(em'u
.I h_cnt
the number of services in the list.
.PD 0
.TP
.I h_hostservs
a pointer to an array of
.B nd_hostserv
structures forming the service list.
.PD
.RE
.PP
Each host and service name tuple in the list pointed to by the
.I h_hostservs
member of the
.B nd_hostservlist
structure is formatted as a
.B nd_hostserv
structure.
The
.B nd_hostserv
structure is defined in
.RB < netconfig.h >
and is structured as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct nd_hostserv {
    char *h_name;  /* host name */
    char *h_serv;  /* service name */
};
.fi
.TP \w'\fIh_hostservs\fR\(em'u
.I h_name
the host (machine) name.
.RS
.PP
The following special host names are defined in
.RB < netdir.h >:
.TP \w'\fBHOST_SELF_CONNECT\fR\(em'u
.B HOST_SELF
Local host name.
.PD 0
.TP
.B HOST_ANY
Any host name.
.TP
.B HOST_BROADCAST
All addresses accessible by transport.
.TP
.B HOST_SELF_CONNECT
Address for connecting to the local host.
.TP
.B HOST_SELF_BIND
Bind to one's self.
.TP
.B HOST_ALLNODES
All nodes (broadcast or rpcbind broadcast).
.TP
.B HOST_RPCNODES
All RPC nodes (multicast or rpcbind multicast).
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I h_serv
the service name.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Procedure for usage of the
.BR netdir_getbyaddr ()
subroutine is to first acquire a pointer to a
.BR netconfig (3)
structure representing an entry in the
.BR netconfig (5)
database using a function such as
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfigent (3)
or
.BR getnetpath (3).
Then an address string is placed in a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure and passed to the
.BR netdir_getbyaddr ()
function.  The returned
.B nd_hostservlist
structure pointer contains the host and service name tuples associated with the address.
Once the
.B nd_hostservlist
structure is no longer required, it is freed with
.BR netdir_free (3)
with a
.I struct_type
argument of
.BR ND_HOSTSERVLIST .
.PP
For Internet Protocol transports,
(that is, when
.I config
points to a
.BR netconfig (5)
structure corresponding to an Internet Protocol Version 4 or Version 6 network),
.BR netdir_getbyaddr ()
is roughly equivalent to
.BR gethostbyaddr (3)
or
.BR getipnodebyaddr (3);
however,
.BR netdir_getbyaddr ()
is more general and applies to networks other than
.I inet
or
.I inet6
networks.
Also,
.BR gethostbyaddr (3)
and
.BR getipnodebyaddr (3)
do not return the service name.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.BR netdir_getbyaddr ()
returns zero
.RB ( 0 )
and places a pointer to an allocated
.B nd_hostservlist
structure in the pointer referenced by the
.I services
argument.
Otherwise, minus one
.RB ( -1 )
is returned and
.BR _nderror (3)
is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR netdir_getbyaddr ()
fails, it returns minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and sets
.BR _nderror (3)
to one of the following error codes:
.TP \w'[\fBND_NO_RECOVERY\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ ND_TRY_AGAIN ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: non-authoritative host not found" \(rq
.br
The host was not found, however, a name-to-address mapping function suffered a temporary failure
(such as a timeout).
.TP
.RB [ ND_NO_RECOVERY ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: non-recoverable error" \(rq
.br
The last name-to-address translation function suffered an unrecoverable error in one of its lookup
libraries.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NO_DATA ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: no data record of requested type" \(rq
.br
The last name-to-address translation function could find no data of the requested type in one of its
lookup libraries.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NO_ADDRESS ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: no data record of requested type" \(rq
.br
The last name-to-address translation function could find no address of the requested type in one of
its lookup libraries.
.TP
.RB [ ND_BADARG ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: bad arguments passed to routine" \(rq
.br
The last name-to-address translation function was passed a bad argument.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOMEM ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: memory allocation failed" \(rq
.br
The last name-to-address translation function could not allocate memory necessary to complete the
operation.
.TP
.\".RB [ ND_OK ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: successful completion" \(rq
.\".br
.\"The last name-to-address translation function completed successfully, or there was no previous
.\"name-to-address translation function called.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_NOHOST ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: hostname not found" \(rq
.\".br
.\"The last name-to-address translation function,
.\".BR netdir_getbyname (3),
.\"could not find, or does not support, the specified host name.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_NOSERV ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: service name not found" \(rq
.\".br
.\"The last name-to-address translation function,
.\".BR netdir_getbyname (3),
.\"could not find, or does not support, the specified service name.
.\".TP
.RB [ ND_NOSYM ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: symbol missing in shared object : %s" \(rq
.br
One of the required symbols, see
.BR netdir (5),
was missing from a shared object specified in the
.I nc_lookup
member of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure referenced by a
.I config
argument.
.I %s
is replaced with the last
.BR dlerror (3)
string.
.TP
.RB [ ND_OPEN ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: could not open shared object : %s" \(rq
.br
One of the shared objects specified in the
.I nc_lookup
member of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure referenced by a
.I config
argument could not be opened.
.I %s
is replaced with the last
.BR dlerror (3)
string.
.TP
.RB [ ND_ACCESS ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: access denied for shared object" \(rq
.br
One of the shared objects specified in the
.I nc_lookup
member of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure referenced by a
.I config
argument could not be opened due to access permission.
.TP
.\".RB [ ND_UKNWN ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: attempt to free unknown object" \(rq
.\".br
.\".BR netdir_free (3)
.\"was called with an unknown
.\".I struct_type
.\"argument value.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_NOCTRL ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: unknown option passed" \(rq
.\".br
.\".BR netdir_options (3)
.\"was passed an unknown
.\".I option
.\"argument value.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_FAILCTRL ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: control operation failed" \(rq
.\".br
.\"The
.\".BR netdir_options (3)
.\"control operation failed.
.\".TP
.RB [ ND_SYSTEM ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: system error" \(rq
.br
During the last name-to-address translation function, a system error occurred.
The
.B Linux
system error is in
.BR errno (3).
The
.BR xti (3)
error in
.BR t_errno (3)
might also provide some insight into the error.
.TP
.\".RB [ ND_NOCONVERT ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: conversion not possible" \(rq
.\".br
.\"During the last name-to-address translation function it was discovered that character string
.\"conversion was not possible.
.\".TP
.RI [ other ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: unknown error %d" \(rq
.br
An internal error occured in the
.BR libxnsl (3)
library or a loaded shared object.
.I %d
is the decimal number of the error number that was contained in
.BR _nderror (3).
.PP
When an error occurs, an error message can be printed to standard error or retrieved using
.BR netdir_perror (3)
or
.BR netdir_sperror (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR netdir_perror (3)
and
.BR netdir_sperror (3)
must be called immediately after the failed network configuration subroutine fails.  Otherwise, the
error condition in
.BR _nderror (3)
may be lost.
.PP
The pointer returned to the pointer referenced by the
.I services
argument must eventually be released by passing it to
.BR netdir_free (3)
with a
.I struct_type
argument of
.BR ND_HOSTSERVLIST .
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
Name to address lookup libraries that will be have their
.B _netdir_getbyaddr ()
dynamic symbols called to perform the lookup will be searched in the order that they appear in the
.I nc_lookups
member of the specified
.BR netconfig (5)
structure,
.IR config .
If
.I config
specifies an
.I inet
or
.I inet6
network, and the number of lookup libraries,
.IR nc_nlookups ,
is zero, the standard BSD inet lookup functions will be used.
.PP
.BR _netdir_getbyaddr ()
is the symbol provided by shared object lookup libraries to implement
.BR netdir_getbyaddr ().
If the library does not implement
.BR _netdir_getbyaddr (),
.BR netdir_getbyaddr ()
will fail, return minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and set
.BR _nderror (3)
to
.RB [ ND_NOSYM ].
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See
.BR netconfig (5).
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.so
The X/Open Network Services Library shared object library.
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.a
The X/Open Network Services Library static library.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
See
.BR netdir (3)
for an example.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR netdir (3),
.BR netconfig (5),
.BR netconfig (3),
.BR netpath (3),
.IR "RFC 1833" .
.[
rfc1833
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR netdir_getbyaddr ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR netdir_getbyaddr ()
is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documents
.[
uw7doc
.]
that
.BR _nderror (3)
contains the cause of failure and that
.BR t_errno (3)
may provide some additional insights into why a call failed.
.IP ""
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
stores the error condition in
.BR _nderror (3).
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
also documents
.[
aixdoc
.]
the
.RB [ ND_NOCONVERT ]
error code.
.IP \(em
Diagnostic message strings are not documented and are incompatible.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility would only be coincidental.
.IP \(em
On
.IR UNIX \(rg
systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of the Network Services
Library,
.BR libnsl ;
however,
.B Linux
already has a library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these
components), and, therefore,
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
renames the library to
.BR libxnsl (3).
This means that both the
.B -lnsl
and
.B -lxnsl
flags must be provided on the
.B cc
command line.
.PP
See
.BR libxnsl (3)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The network configuration subroutines first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
These subroutines are related to the
.IR UNIX \(rg
.BR STREAMS (9)
implementation of network transport providers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
