'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: netdir_free.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/09/25 12:30:49 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/09/25 12:30:49 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: netdir_free.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/25 12:30:49  brian
.\" - added files for new strnsl package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/09/22 20:54:21  brian
.\" - added TI-RPC references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/17 23:36:57  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH NETDIR_FREE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B netdir_free
\- free network selection database datastructures
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <netconfig.h>
.HP 12
.BI "void netdir_free(void *" ptr ", int " struct_type );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP \w'\fIstruct_type\fR\(em'u
.I ptr
A pointer to a structure to free.
.TP
.I struct_type
The structure type to free.  This argument can have values:
.sp
.RS
.TP \w'\fBND_HOSTSERVLIST\fR\(em'u
.B ND_ADDR
struct
.B netbuf
.PD 0
.TP
.B ND_ADDRLIST
struct
.B nd_addrlist
.TP
.B ND_HOSTSERV
struct
.B nd_hostserv
.TP
.B ND_HOSTSERVLIST
struct
.B nd_hostservlist
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.PP
.IR UNIX \(rg
has traditionally provided three components of the Network Services Library,
.BR libnsl ,
that are associated with Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9)
network pseudo-device drivers, and that are not currently part of the
.B Linux
Network Services Library.  These components are:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
Network Configuration database access, see
.BR netconfig (3).
.PD 0
.IP 2.
Network Directory and address mapping, see
.BR netdir (3).
.IP 3.
Network Path access, see
.BR netpath (3).
.PD
.PP
These are often refered to as the Network Selection facility of the Network
Services Library.
.PP
.BR netdir_free ()
is used to free complex groups of structures returned by the transport name-to-address mapping
functions,
.BR netdir (3),
with the exception of universal addresses, that are simple character strings and are freed with
.BR free (3).
.PP
The value passed in as
.I struct_type
identifies on of the structures, listed below, allocated by a network selection function, that is
being freed.
.I ptr
is simply a pointer to the beginning of the structure to be freed.
.\"
.\"
.SS "STRUCTURE FORMAT"
.PP
The
.B netbuf
structure is defined in
.RB < xti.h >
or
.RB < tiuser.h >,
is specified with a
.I struct_type
of
.BR ND_ADDR ,
and is structured as follows:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct netbuf {
    unsigned int maxlen;
    unsigned int len;
    char *buf;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIh_hostservs\fR\(em'u
.I maxlen
the maximum length of the supplied buffer,
.IR buf .
.PD 0
.TP
.I len
the length of the filled buffer,
.IR buf .
.TP
.I buf
a pointer to the buffer.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.B nd_addrlist
structure is defined in
.RB < netconfig.h >,
is specified with a
.I struct_type
of
.BR ND_ADDRLIST ,
and is structured as follows:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct nd_addrlist {
    int n_cnt;               /* number of addresses */
    struct netbuf *n_addrs;  /* the addresses (array) */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIh_hostservs\fR\(em'u
.I n_cnt
the number of addresses in the list.
.PD 0
.TP
.I n_addrs
a pointer to an array of
.B netbuf
structures forming the address list.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.B nd_hostserv
structure is defined in
.RB < netconfig.h >,
is specified with a
.I struct_type
of
.BR ND_HOSTSERV ,
and is structured as follows:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct nd_hostserv {
    char *h_name;  /* host name */
    char *h_serv;  /* service name */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIh_hostservs\fR\(em'u
.I h_name
the host (machine) name.
.RS
.PP
The following special host names are defined in
.RB < netdir.h >:
.TP \w'\fBHOST_SELF_CONNECT\fR\(em'u
.B HOST_SELF
Local host name.
.PD 0
.TP
.B HOST_ANY
Any host name.
.TP
.B HOST_BROADCAST
All addresses accessible by transport.
.TP
.B HOST_SELF_CONNECT
Address for connecting to the local host.
.TP
.B HOST_SELF_BIND
Bind to one's self.
.TP
.B HOST_ALLNODES
All nodes (broadcast or rpcbind broadcast).
.TP
.B HOST_RPCNODES
All RPC nodes (multicast or rpcbind multicast).
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I h_serv
the service name.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.B nd_hostservlist
structure is defined in
.RB < netconfig.h >,
is specified with a
.I struct_type
of
.BR ND_HOSTSERVLIST ,
and is structured as follows:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct nd_hostservlist {
    int *h_cnt;  /* number of hostservs found */
    struct hostserv *h_hostservs;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIh_hostservs\fR\(em'u
.I h_cnt
the number of services in the list.
.PD 0
.TP
.I h_hostservs
a pointer to an array of
.B nd_hostserv
structures forming the service list.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR netdir_perror (3)
and
.BR netdir_sperror (3)
must be called immediately after the failed network configuration subroutine fails.  Otherwise, the
error condition may be lost.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
.BR netdir_free ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR netdir_free ()
fails, it sets
.BR _nderror (3)
to one of the following errors:
.TP \w'[\fBND_NO_RECOVERY\fR]\(em'u
.\".RB [ ND_TRY_AGAIN ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: non-authoritative host not found" \(rq
.\".br
.\"The host was not found, however, a name-to-address mapping function suffered a temporary failure
.\"(such as a timeout).
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_NO_RECOVERY ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: non-recoverable error" \(rq
.\".br
.\"The last name-to-address translation function suffered an unrecoverable error in one of its lookup
.\"libraries.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_NO_DATA ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: no data record of requested type" \(rq
.\".br
.\"The last name-to-address translation function could find no data of the requested type in one of its
.\"lookup libraries.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_NO_ADDRESS ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: no data record of requested type" \(rq
.\".br
.\"The last name-to-address translation function could find no address of the requested type in one of
.\"its lookup libraries.
.\".TP
.RB [ ND_BADARG ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: bad arguments passed to routine" \(rq
.br
The last name-to-address translation function was passed a bad argument.
.TP
.\".RB [ ND_NOMEM ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: memory allocation failed" \(rq
.\".br
.\"The last name-to-address translation function could not allocate memory necessary to complete the
.\"operation.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_OK ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: successful completion" \(rq
.\".br
.\"The last name-to-address translation function completed successfully, or there was no previous
.\"name-to-address translation function called.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_NOHOST ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: hostname not found" \(rq
.\".br
.\"The last name-to-address translation function,
.\".BR netdir_getbyname (3),
.\"could not find, or does not support, the specified host name.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_NOSERV ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: service name not found" \(rq
.\".br
.\"The last name-to-address translation function,
.\".BR netdir_getbyname (3),
.\"could not find, or does not support, the specified service name.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_NOSYM ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: symbol missing in shared object : %s" \(rq
.\".br
.\"One of the required symbols, see
.\".BR netdir (5),
.\"was missing from a shared object specified in the
.\".I nc_lookup
.\"member of the
.\".BR netconfig (5)
.\"structure referenced by a
.\".I config
.\"argument.
.\".I %s
.\"is replaced with the last
.\".BR dlerror (3)
.\"string.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_OPEN ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: could not open shared object : %s" \(rq
.\".br
.\"One of the shared objects specified in the
.\".I nc_lookup
.\"member of the
.\".BR netconfig (5)
.\"structure referenced by a
.\".I config
.\"argument could not be opened.
.\".I %s
.\"is replaced with the last
.\".BR dlerror (3)
.\"string.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_ACCESS ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: access denied for shared object" \(rq
.\".br
.\"One of the shared objects specified in the
.\".I nc_lookup
.\"member of the
.\".BR netconfig (5)
.\"structure referenced by a
.\".I config
.\"argument could not be opened due to access permission.
.\".TP
.RB [ ND_UKNWN ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: attempt to free unknown object" \(rq
.br
.BR netdir_free (3)
was called with an unknown
.I struct_type
argument value.
.TP
.\".RB [ ND_NOCTRL ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: unknown option passed" \(rq
.\".br
.\".BR netdir_options (3)
.\"was passed an unknown
.\".I option
.\"argument value.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_FAILCTRL ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: control operation failed" \(rq
.\".br
.\"The
.\".BR netdir_options (3)
.\"control operation failed.
.\".TP
.RB [ ND_SYSTEM ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: system error" \(rq
.br
During the last name-to-address translation function, a system error occurred.
The
.B Linux
system error is in
.BR errno (3).
The
.BR xti (3)
error in
.BR t_errno (3)
might also provide some insight into the error.
.TP
.\".RB [ ND_NOCONVERT ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: conversion not possible" \(rq
.\".br
.\"During the last name-to-address translation function it was discovered that character string
.\"conversion was not possible.
.\".TP
.RI [ other ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: unknown error %d" \(rq
.br
An internal error occured in the
.BR libxnsl (3)
library or a loaded shared object.
.I %d
is the decimal number of the error number that was contained in
.BR _nderror (3).
.PP
An error message corresponding to the
.BR _nderror (3)
value can be retrieved using
.BR netdir_sperror (3)
or printed to standard error using
.BR netdir_perror (3).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See
.BR netconfig (5).
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.so
The X/Open Network Services Library shared object library.
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.a
The X/Open Network Services Library static library.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR netconfig (5),
.BR netconfig (3),
.BR netpath (3),
.IR "RFC 1833" .
.[
rfc1833
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR netdir_free ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR netdir_free ()
is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
describe the
.BR nc_sperror (3)
subroutine as returning a pointer to thread-specific data and that the buffer
could change at any point.  While the error value is saved as thread-specific
data, this implementation of
.BR nc_sperror (3)
returns a pointer to a shared read-only string that is valid for the duration
of the calling process.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
does not document the
.BR ND_CLEAR_BROADCAST ", " ND_SET_REUSEADDR " nor " ND_CLEAR_REUSEADDR
options to
.BR netdir_options (3).
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
does.
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documents
.[
uw7doc
.]
that
.BR _nderror (3)
contains the cause of failure and that
.BR t_errno (3)
may provide some additional insights into why a call failed.
.IP ""
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
stores the error condition in
.BR _nderror (3).
.IP \(em
Diagnostic message strings are not documented and are incompatible.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility would only be coincidental.
.IP \(em
On
.IR UNIX \(rg
systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of the Network Services
Library,
.BR libnsl ;
however,
.B Linux
already has a library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these
components), and, therefore,
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
renames the library to
.BR libxnsl (3).
.PP
See
.BR libxnsl (3)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR netdir_free ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
These subroutines are related to the
.IR UNIX \(rg
.BR STREAMS (9)
implementation of network transport providers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
