'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: taddr2uaddr.3.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-28 22:11:45 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 22:11:45 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: taddr2uaddr.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-28 22:11:45  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/09/26 00:51:21  brian
.\" - corrected macro file name, reordered includes
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/25 12:30:49  brian
.\" - added files for new strnsl package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/09/22 20:54:21  brian
.\" - added TI-RPC references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/17 23:36:58  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strnsl.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strnsl.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH TADDR2UADDR 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B taddr2uaddr
\- convert a transport address to a universal address
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <netdir.h>
.ad l
.hy 0
.HP 12
.BI "char *taddr2uaddr(struct netconfig *" config ", struct netbuf *" addr );
.HP
.BI "char *_taddr2uaddr(struct netconfig *" config ", struct netbuf *" addr );
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP \w'\fIconfig\fR\(em'u
.I config
A pointer to a
.BR netconfig (5)
structure describing the network transport provider returned by
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfigent (3)
or
.BR getnetpath (3).
.TP
.I addr
A pointer to a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure describing the transport address.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.IR UNIX \(rg
has traditionally provided three components of the Network Services Library,
.BR libnsl ,
that are associated with Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9)
network pseudo-device drivers, and that are not currently part of the
.B Linux
Network Services Library.  These components are:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
Network Configuration database access, see
.BR netconfig (3).
.PD 0
.IP 2.
Network Path access, see
.BR netpath (3).
.IP 3.
Name-to-Address Translation, see
.BR netdir (3).
.PD
.PP
The last is referred to as the Name-to-Address Translation facility of the
Network Services Library.
.PP
The
.BR netdir (3)
component (of which
.BR taddr2uaddr ()
is a member) consists of an interface that provides a set of Name-to-Address
Translation subroutines for transport independence:
.BR netdir_getbyname (3),
.BR netdir_getbyaddr (3),
.BR netdir_options (3),
.BR taddr2uaddr "(), and
.BR uaddr2taddr ().
.PP
Of these,
.BR taddr2uaddr "() and " uaddr2taddr ()
provide a mechanism for trasnlating between transport specific address formats
and a universal address format in a character string.
.PP
.BR taddr2uaddr ()
provides an address translation service for the network transport protocol sepcified with a pointer
to a
.BR netconfig (5)
structure,
.IR config .
The
.I config
pointer is acquired using the
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfigent (3)
or
.BR getnetpath (3)
subroutines and describes a particular transport protocol from the
.BR netconfig (5)
network configuration database.
The transport address to translate to a universal address string is specified as a pointer to a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure,
.IR addr ,
that contains the transport address as it is passed to and from the transport provider.
.BR taddr2uaddr ()
returns a pointer to a character string representing the universal address that corresponds to the
transport address.
.PP
Once the character string representing the universal address is no longer required, it is freed by
passing its pointer to
.BR free (3).
.\"
.\"
.SS "STRUCTURE FORMAT"
.PP
The
.B netconfig
structure is defined in
.RB < netconfig.h >
and described in
.BR netconfig (3)
and
.BR netconfig (5).
.PP
The
.BR netbuf (3)
structure is defined in
.RB < xti.h >
and described in
.BR netbuf (3).
.PP
Upon successful return, the returned character string pointer points to an allocated null terminated
string.
.\"
.\"
.SS "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
The format of the
.B /etc/netconfig
Network Configuration database file is as described in
.BR netconfig (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Procedure for usage of the
.BR taddr2uaddr ()
subroutine is to first acquire a pointer to a
.BR netconfig (3)
structure representing an entry in the
.BR netconfig (5)
database using a function such as
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfigent (3)
or
.BR getnetpath (3).
Then a transport address is placed in a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure (perhaps as returned by
.BR t_bind (3)
or
.BR t_accept (3))
and passed to the
.BR taddr2uaddr ()
function.  The returned character string contains the universal address representing the
transport address.
Once the character string is not longer required, it is freed with
.BR free (3)
by passing the character string pointer as the argument.
.PP
For Internet Protocol transports, (that is when
.I config
points to a
.BR netconfig (5)
structure corresponding to an Internet Protocol Version 4 or Version 6 network),
.BR taddr2uaddr ()
is roughly equivalent to
.BR inet_ntoa (3);
however,
.BR taddr2uaddr ()
is more general and applies to networks other than
.I inet
or
.IR inet6 .
Also,
.BR inet_ntoa (3)
neither accepts nor translates a service component to a port number in the resulting
numbers-and-dots universal address.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.BR taddr2uaddr ()
returns a
.RB non- NULL
character string pointer to an allocated universal address string.
Otherwise,
.B NULL
is returned and
.BR _nderror (3)
is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR taddr2uaddr ()
fails, it returns
.B NULL
and sets
.BR _nderror (3)
to one of the following error codes:
.TP \w'[\fBND_NO_RECOVERY\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ ND_TRY_AGAIN ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: non-authoritative host not found" \(rq
.IP ""
The host was not found, however, a name-to-address mapping function suffered a temporary failure
(such as a timeout).
.TP
.RB [ ND_NO_RECOVERY ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: non-recoverable error" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function suffered an unrecoverable error in one of its lookup
libraries.
.TP
.\".RB [ ND_NO_DATA ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: no data record of requested type" \(rq
.\".IP ""
.\"The last name-to-address translation function could find no data of the requested type in one of its
.\"lookup libraries.
.\".TP
.RB [ ND_NO_ADDRESS ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: no data record of requested type" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function could find no address of the requested type in one of
its lookup libraries.
.TP
.RB [ ND_BADARG ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: bad arguments passed to routine" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function was passed a bad argument.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOMEM ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: memory allocation failed" \(rq
.IP ""
The last name-to-address translation function could not allocate memory necessary to complete the
operation.
.TP
.\".RB [ ND_OK ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: successful completion" \(rq
.\".IP ""
.\"The last name-to-address translation function completed successfully, or there was no previous
.\"name-to-address translation function called.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_NOHOST ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: hostname not found" \(rq
.\".IP ""
.\"The last name-to-address translation function,
.\".BR netdir_getbyname (3),
.\"could not find, or does not support, the specified host name.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_NOSERV ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: service name not found" \(rq
.\".IP ""
.\"The last name-to-address translation function,
.\".BR netdir_getbyname (3),
.\"could not find, or does not support, the specified service name.
.\".TP
.RB [ ND_NOSYM ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: symbol missing in shared object : %s" \(rq
.IP ""
One of the required symbols, see
.BR netdir (5),
was missing from a shared object specified in the
.I nc_lookup
member of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure referenced by a
.I config
argument.
.I %s
is replaced with the last
.BR dlerror (3)
string.
.TP
.RB [ ND_OPEN ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: could not open shared object : %s" \(rq
.IP ""
One of the shared objects specified in the
.I nc_lookup
member of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure referenced by a
.I config
argument could not be opened.
.I %s
is replaced with the last
.BR dlerror (3)
string.
.TP
.RB [ ND_ACCESS ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: access denied for shared object" \(rq
.IP ""
One of the shared objects specified in the
.I nc_lookup
member of the
.BR netconfig (5)
structure referenced by a
.I config
argument could not be opened due to access permission.
.TP
.\".RB [ ND_UKNWN ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: attempt to free unknown object" \(rq
.\".IP ""
.\".BR netdir_free (3)
.\"was called with an unknown
.\".I struct_type
.\"argument value.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_NOCTRL ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: unknown option passed" \(rq
.\".IP ""
.\".BR netdir_options (3)
.\"was passed an unknown
.\".I option
.\"argument value.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ND_FAILCTRL ]
.\".RI \(lq "n2a: control operation failed" \(rq
.\".IP ""
.\"The
.\".BR netdir_options (3)
.\"control operation failed.
.\".TP
.RB [ ND_SYSTEM ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: system error" \(rq
.IP ""
During the last name-to-address translation function, a system error occurred.
The
.B Linux
system error is in
.BR errno (3).
The
.BR xti (3)
error in
.BR t_errno (3)
might also provide some insight into the error.
.TP
.RB [ ND_NOCONVERT ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: conversion not possible" \(rq
.IP ""
During the last name-to-address translation function it was discovered that character string
conversion was not possible.
.TP
.RI [ other ]
.RI \(lq "n2a: unknown error %d" \(rq
.IP ""
An internal error occured in the
.BR libxnsl (3)
library or a loaded shared object.
.I %d
is the decimal number of the error number that was contained in
.BR _nderror (3).
.PP
When an error occurs, an error message can be printed to standard error or retrieved using
.BR netdir_perror (3)
or
.BR netdir_sperror (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR netdir_perror (3)
and
.BR netdir_sperror (3)
must be called immediately after the failed network configuration subroutine fails.  Otherwise, the
error condition in
.BR _nderror (3)
may be lost.
.PP
The character string to which a pointer is returned must eventually be freed by passing it to
.BR free (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
Name to address lookup libraries that will have their
.BR _taddr2uaddr ()
dynamic symbols called to perform the lookup will be searched in the order that they appear in the
.I nc_lookups
member of the specified
.BR netconfig (5)
structure,
.IR config .
If
.I config
specifies an
.I inet
or
.I inet6
network, and the number of lookup libraries,
.IR nc_nlookups ,
is zero, the standard BSD inet translation functions will be used.
.PP
.BR _taddr2uaddr ()
is the symbol provided by shared object lookup libraries to implement
.BR taddr2uaddr ().
If the library does not implement
.BR _taddr2uaddr (),
.BR taddr2uaddr ()
will fail, return
.B NULL
and set
.BR _nderror (3)
to
.RB [ ND_NOSYM ].
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See
.BR netconfig (5).
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.so
The X/Open Network Services Library shared object library.
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libxnsl.a
The X/Open Network Services Library static library.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
See
.BR netdir (3)
for an example.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR netdir (3),
.BR netconfig (5),
.BR netconfig (3),
.BR netpath (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR taddr2uaddr ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR taddr2uaddr ()
is compatible with
.I SVR4
.[
svr4
.]
and systems based on
.IR SVR4 ,
.[
svr4
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documents
.[
uw7doc
.]
that
.BR _nderror (3)
contains the cause of failure and that
.BR t_errno (3)
may provide some additional insights into why a call failed.
.IP ""
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
stores the error condition in
.IR _nderror (3).
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
also documents
.[
aixdoc
.]
the
.RB [ ND_NOCONVERT ]
error code.
.IP \(em
Diagnostic message strings are not documented and are incompatible.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility would only be coincidental.
.IP \(em
On
.IR UNIX \(rg
systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of the Network Services
Library,
.BR libnsl ;
however,
.B Linux
already has a library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these
components), and, therefore,
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
renames the library to
.BR libxnsl (3).
This means that both the
.B -lnsl
and
.B -lxnsl
flags must be provided on the
.B cc
command line.
.PP
See
.BR libxnsl (3)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR SVR4 .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The network configuration subroutines first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
These subroutines are related to the
.IR UNIX \(rg
.BR STREAMS (9)
implementation of network transport providers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
