'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: xnsl.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/09/25 12:30:49 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/09/25 12:30:49 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: xnsl.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/25 12:30:49  brian
.\" - added files for new strnsl package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/09/22 20:54:21  brian
.\" - added TI-RPC references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/17 23:36:58  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH XNSL 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B xnsl
\- XNS 5.2 Network Services Library (NSL)
.BR "" ( libxnsl )
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.BR cc  " [" flags "] file " "-lxnet -lnsl -lxnsl
.br
.BR cc  " [" flags "] file " "-lsocket -lnsl -lxnsl
.PP
.B #include <netconfig.h>
.ad l
.HP 12
.BI "void *setnetconfig(void);"
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "struct netconfig *getnetconfig(void *" handle );
.HP
.BI "int endnetconfig(void *" handle );
.HP
.BI "struct netconfig *getnetconfigent(const char *" netid );
.HP
.BI "void freenetconfigent(struct netconfig *" netconfig );
.HP
.BI "void nc_perror(const char *" msg );
.HP
.BI "char *nc_sperror(void);"
.PD
.HP
.BI "void *setnetpath(void);"
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "struct netconfig *getnetpath(void *" handle );
.HP
.BI "int endnetpath(void *" handle );
.PD
.HP
.BI "int netdir_getbyname(struct netconfig *" config ", struct nd_hostserv *" service ", struct nd_addrlist **" addrs );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int netdir_getbyaddr(struct netconfig *" config ", struct nd_hostservlist **" services ", struct netbuf *" addr );
.HP
.BI "int netdir_options(struct netconfig *" config ", int " option ", int " fd ", char *" point_to_args ");
.HP
.BI "char *taddr2uaddr(struct netconfig *" config ", struct netbuf *" addr );
.HP
.BI "struct netbuf *uaddr2taddr(struct netconfig *" config ", struct netbuf *" addr );
.HP
.BI "void netdir_free(void *" ptr ", int " struct_type );
.HP
.BI "void netdir_perror(char *" msg );
.HP
.BI "char *netdir_sperror(void);"
.PD
.ad b
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
.IR UNIX \(rg
has traditionally provided three components of the Network Services Library,
.BR libnsl ,
two of which are associated with the X/Open Transport Interface/Transport Layer
Interface (XTI/TLI),
.BR xti (3),
the Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
network pseudo-device drivers.
Two components provide the TI (Transport Independent) interface, whereas the
other provides the TS (Transport Sockets) interface.  The TI components
provide the Transport Independent RPC services (TI-RPC) standardized by the
IETF.
.PP
.TS
center expand tab(:);
c.
T{
.nf
\fC\s-1\
+---------------------------------------+
| Client or Service  TI-RPC Application |
+---------------------------------------+
          ^        ^        ^ Transport  
          |        |        | Independent
          |        |        | Interface  
  +-------|--------|--------|---------+  
  |       v        |        v  TI-RPC |  
  |  +---------+   |   +-----------+  |  
  |  | Network |   |   |  Name-to- |  |  
  |  |Selection|   |   |  Address  |  |  
  |  +---------+   |   |Translation|  |  
  |libnsl          |   +-----------+  |  
  +----------------|------------------+  
  |librpc          v                  |  
  |    +-------------------------+    |  
  |    |  RPC Interface Library  |    |  
  |    +-------------------------+    |  
  |                ^                  |  
  +----------------|------------------+  
                   |          Transport 
                   |          Layer     
                   v          Interface 
  +-----------------------------------+  
  |       XTI/STREAM Interface        |  
  +-----------------------------------+  
                   ^          Transport  
                   |          Provider   
                   v          Interface  
  +-----------------------------------+  
  |   Transport Pool (TCP,UDP,etc.)   |  
  +-----------------------------------+  
\s+1\fP
.fi
T}
T{
.IR "Figure 1 " \(em " Transport Independent RPC (TI-RPC)"
T}
.TE
.PP
.B GNU/Linux
.I glibc
provides (amoungst other things) the RPC Interface Library and the TS-RPC and
BSD 4.3 sockets address translation facilities in
.BR libc ,
and provides NIS capabilies in
.BR libnsl .
.PP
.BR STREAMS (9)-related
components that are not currently
part of the
.B Linux
Network Services Library
.RB ( libnsl )
are:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
Network Selection, consisting of:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Network Configuration database access, see
.BR netconfig (3).
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Network Path access, see
.BR netpath (3).
.PD
.RE
.IP 2.
Name-to-Address Translation, see
.BR netdir (3).
.PP
These are often refered to as the Network Selection facility of the Network
Services Library.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides a library, renamed
.BR libxnsl ,
that provides the missing Network Selection and Name-to-Address mapping
facilities designed to work with
.BR xti (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B libxnsl
is an
.B OpenSS7
implementation of the XNS 5.2 Network Services Library (NSL) for
.B LFS
(Linux Fast-STREAMS).
It implements the following NSL API library functions:
.PP
Network configuration database functions,
.BR netconfig (3):
.TP \w'\fBnetdir_getbyname\fR(3)\(em'u
.BR setnetconfig (3)
bind to or rewind netconfig database.
.PD 0
.TP
.BR getnetconfig (3)
get next entry from netconfig database.
.TP
.BR endnetconfig (3)
unbind from netconfig database.
.TP
.BR getnetconfigent (3)
get netconfig database entry by network id.
.TP
.BR freenetconfigent (3)
free netconfig database entry.
.TP
.BR nc_perror (3)
print netconfig database error to standard error.
.TP
.BR nc_sperror (3)
retrieve netconfig database error string.
.PD
.PP
Network path database functions,
.BR netpath (3):
.TP \w'\fBnetdir_getbyname\fR(3)\(em'u
.BR setnetpath (3)
bind to or rewind
.RB { NETPATH }
filtered netconfig database.
.PD 0
.TP
.BR getnetpath (3)
get next entry from
.RB { NETPATH }
filtered netconfig database.
.TP
.BR endnetpath (3)
unbind from
.RB { NETPATH }
filtered netconfig database.
.PD
.PP
Network directory database functions,
.BR netdir (3):
.TP \w'\fBnetdir_getbyname\fR(3)\(em'u
.BR netdir_getbyname (3)
lookup address by host and service name.
.PD 0
.TP
.BR netdir_getbyaddr (3)
lookup host and service names by address.
.TP
.BR netdir_options (3)
set or clear transport provider options.
.TP
.BR taddr2uaddr (3)
convert transport address to universal address.
.TP
.BR uaddr2taddr (3)
convert universal address to transport address.
.TP
.BR netdir_free (3)
free netdir datastructure.
.TP
.BR netdir_perror (3)
print netdir error to standard error.
.TP
.BR netdir_sperror (3)
retrieve netdir error string.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
These functions normally return
.BR void ,
return an integer value,
.BR int ,
where zero
.RB ( 0 )
indicates success and minus one
.RB ( -1 )
indicates failure, or returns a pointer to the appropriate database or address structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Handling of error numbers is not specified in the
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
documentation.
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documentation mentions a
.BR _nderror (3)
global variable that holds the
.BR netdir (3)
function error numbers (but does not list what they are).  It also mentions that
.IR errno (3)
and
.IR t_errno (3)
are set.

.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although it would appear that the
.BR netconfig (5)
database would be handled using either local files
.RB ( /etc/netconfig ),
Berkeley databases, or NIS maps, under
.IR UNIX \(rg,
it has traditionally only been implemented using flat files.  Although NIS
extensions would be nice;
unfortunately, it is not easy to add a database to the
.I glibc
.BR libnsl .
Functions in
.B libxnsl
have been declared as weak to allow future implementations in
.I glibc
to override.
.PP
Note that
GNU
.I glibc
contains the
.B tirpcsrc
distribution of TI-RPC from Sun, but does not contain these two components,
presumably because of the historical lack of a usable
.BR STREAMS (9)
implementation (or emulation) under
.BR Linux .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR setnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR endnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetconfigent (3),
.BR freenetconfigent (3),
.BR nc_perror (3),
.BR nc_sperror (3),
.BR setnetpath (3),
.BR getnetpath (3),
.BR endnetpath (3),
.BR netdir_getbyname (3),
.BR netdir_getbyaddr (3),
.BR taddr2uaddr (3),
.BR uaddr2taddr (3),
.BR netdir_free (3),
.BR netdir_perror (3),
.BR netdir_sperror (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The NSL library
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The NSL library functions are compatible with 
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4
.]
.PP
In fact there is much confusion over what is contained in libraries named:
.BR libtli ", " libxnet ", " libsocket ", " librpc ", " libnsl ", etc."
Traditionally, it seems, the breakdown is as follows:
.TP \w'libsocket\(em'u
.B libtli
Older AT&T TLI library.
.PD 0
.TP
.B libxnet
Newer XTI Library with X/Open Sockets interface.
This library now contains everything
.IR OpenGroup -ish.
.TP
.B libsocket
BSD 4.3 or 4.4 Sockets interface, typically it seems as a compatibility
library for
.BR STREAMS (9).
.TP
.B libnsl
BSD 4.3 or 4.4 sockets address and naming functions like
.BR gethostbyname (3),
but also, on
.IR UNIX \(rg
systems, the two facilities mentioned above,
.BR netconfig "(3) and
.BR netpath "(3); and
.BR netdir (3).
.TP
.B librpc
Sun RPC.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The NSL interface first appeared in
.BR SVR4 .
.[
svr4
.]
(Note that most of the statements about history are wild guesses and likely
very wrong.  The history concerning these components is a confusing one.)
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
