'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: capi_ioctl.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2006/12/23 13:07:19 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/12/23 13:07:19 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: capi_ioctl.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/12/23 13:07:19  brian
.\" - manual page and other package updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/17 11:56:02  brian
.\" - copied files into new packages from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/05 09:43:02  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strisdn.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strisdn.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CAPI-IOCTL 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B capi_ioctl
\- COMMON-ISDN-API (CAPI) \- IO Controls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/isdni_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/capi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "struct strioctl *" arg ;
.HP
.BI "int " bua_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/bua\fI ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" bua_stream ", " \fRI_STR\fI ", " arg );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B CAPI-IOCTL
supports IO controls based on the Local Management Interface IO controls,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
as used for ISDN as described in
.BR isdn_ioctl (4).
In addition.
.B CAPI-IOCTL
defines the additional managed objects, structures and constants necessary to
use the
.BR capi (4)
driver.
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.TP
.B CAPI_REGISTER
.RS
.PP
.B CAPI_REGISTER
takes as an argument a pointer to a
.B capi_register_parms
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct capi_register_params {
    uint32_t maxLogicalConnection;  /* maximum number of logical connections */
    uint32_t maxBDataBlocks;        /* maximum number of received data blocks */
    uint32_t maxBDataLength;        /* maximum size of application data block */
} capi_register_params_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B capi_resister_parms
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I maxLogicalConnection
.TP
.I maxBDataBlocks
.TP
.I maxBDataLength
.RE
.TP
.B CAPI_GET_MANUFACTURER
.TP
.B CAPI_GET_VERSION
.RS
.PP
.B CAPI_GET_VERSION
takes as an argument a pointer to a
.B capi_version
structure, formatted as follows:
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct capi_version {
	uint32_t major_version;
	uint32_t minor_version;
	uint32_t vendor_major_version;
	uint32_t vendor_minor_version;
} capi_version_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B capi_version
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I major_version
.TP
.I minor_version
.TP
.I vendor_major_version
.TP
.I vendor_minor_version
.RE
.TP
.B CAPI_GET_SERIAL_NUMBER
.TP
.B CAPI_GET_PROFILE
.RS
.PP
.B CAPI_GET_PROFILE
takes as an argument a pointer to a
.B capi_profile_parms
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef union capi_profile_params {
    struct {
        uint32_t controller_number;
    } request;
    struct {
        uint16_t num_controllers;
        uint16_t num_b_channels;
        uint32_t global_operations;
        uint32_t b1_protocol_support;
        uint32_t b2_protocol_support;
        uint32_t b3_protocol_support;
        uint8_t reserved[24];
        uint8_t vendor_specific[20];
    } result;
    capi_profile_t result;
} capi_profile_params_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B capi_profile_parms
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I request.number
.TP
.I result.num_controllers
.TP
.I result.num_b_channels
.TP
.I result.global_operations
.TP
.I result.b1_protocol_support
.TP
.I result.b2_protocol_support
.TP
.I result.b3_protocol_support
.TP
.I result.reserved
.TP
.I result.vendor_specific
.RE
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.PP
.B THIS MANPAGE IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND NEEDS TO BE COMPLETED.
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B THIS MANPAGE IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND NEEDS TO BE COMPLETED.
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/isdni_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/capi_ioctl.h> .
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/capi .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR capi (4).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This is Version 2 of the CAPI Interface.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
capi2p1
.]
.[
capi2p2
.]
.[
capi2p3
.]
.[
capi2p4
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
