'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: isdn.4.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-29 00:48:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:48:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: isdn.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-29 00:48:54  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/03/06 21:23:51  brian
.\" - final updates and corrections to build process for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/01/08 16:24:16  brian
.\" - final updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/17 11:56:02  brian
.\" - copied files into new packages from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:43:03  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strisdn.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strisdn.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH ISDN 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B isdn, q931
\- Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) Driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/cci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/isdni.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/isdni_ioctl.h>
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " isdn_stream " = open(" device ", " flag );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ISDN
is an implementation of the Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) Layer 3
as defined in ITU-T Recommendation Q.931.
.[
q.931
.]
.B ISDN
provides call control of telephone calls over the ISDN.
.B ISDN
uses the services of the Q.921 Data Link,
.[
q921
.]
.BR dl (4),
or ISDN Q.921 User Adaptation Layer,
.[
iuarfc
.]
.BR iua (4),
to transfer packets.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B ISDN
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR dl "(4) or " iua (4)
streams are linked under the
.B ISDN
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide data link services to
.BR ISDN .
Once linked, the streams are configured using
.BR isdn_ioctl (4)
IO controls.  This function is normally performed by the ISDN Configuration
Daemon,
.BR isdnconfd (8).
See also,
.BR isdn (8).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.BR dl (4)
and
.BR iua (4)
Streams provide a Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
service interface to the
.B ISDN
user.
.B ISDN
provides the stream types listed below.  To select a stream type, the
.I device
argument to the
.BR open (2)
call can be selected from the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/isdn
This device provides the
.B ISDN
protocol service interface using the CC-primitives of the Call Control Interface (CCI) described in
.BR cci (7),
as interpreted for use with
.B ISDN
as described in
.BR cci_isdn (7).
This interface is suitable for use with other SS7 modules and drivers, as well
as with the
.BR cframe (3)
library using the
.B OpenSwitch
call framework.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Unlike other SS7 protocol modules and drivers providing transport services,
.B ISDN
does not provide a
.BR sockets (3)
interface.  This is because the special needs of call control are divorced
from the sockets paradigm.
.PP
Note that the
ISDN Q.921 User Adaptation Layer (IUA),
.[
iuarfc
.]
.BR iua (4),
is now provided by the
.BR sigtran (5)
package.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.I I_STR
commands to the
.BR streamio (7)
system calls on the
.I isdn_stream
file descriptor.  These management IO controls are documented in
.BR isdn_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/isdni.h> ,
.BR <ss7/isdni_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/cframe_isdn.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/isdn .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ISDN (4),
.BR isdnconfd (8),
.BR cci (7),
.BR cci_isdn (7),
.BR isdni (7),
.BR isdn_ioctl (4),
.BR cframe (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B ISDN
interface is specific to the
.BR OpenSS7
ISDN stack.  This is Version 2 of the interface.
.PP
CCI interfaces are consistent with CCI Revision 0.8.2.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q931
.]
.[
q932
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
