'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: tpi_udp.7.man,v 0.9.2.8 2006/10/10 10:42:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/10 10:42:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: tpi_udp.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/10/10 10:42:54  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/22 08:39:09  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/22 04:59:34  brian
.\" - updated manual pages for 2G drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/22 01:06:35  brian
.\" - updating manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:44:28  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strinet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strinet.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TPI-UDP 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B tpi_udp
\- Transport Provider Interface (TPI) \- User Datagram Protocol (UDP) Corrigendum
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/tihdr.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/tpi_ip.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/tpi_udp.h>
.HP
.BI "int " udp_stream " = open(" \fR\*(lq/dev/udp\*(rq\fI ", " flags );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int " udp_stream " = open(" \fR\*(lq/dev/udp2\*(rq\fI ", " flags );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B TPI-UDP
provides a Stream supporting the Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
to the User Datagram Protocol (UDP),
.[
rfc768
.]
.[
rfc3828
.]
.BR udp (7).
This
.IR STREAMS (4)
interface provides the
.BR udp (7)
protocol service interface using the T-primitives of the
.BR tpi (7).
This interface is intended solely for use by user programs or protocol modules
requiring the common
.BR tpi (7)
interface, such as the
.BR xti (3)
and
.BR sockets (3)
library.
.PP
The difference between the
.I /dev/udp
and
.I /dev/udp2
devices is that the later is the second generation STREAMS UDP driver fully
implemented in
.IR STREAMS (4),
where the former opens a socket internal to the kernel and simply provides a
TPI service interface to that socket.
Also, the
.I /dev/udp2
driver supports pseudo-connection-oriented modes whereas the
.I /dev/udp
driver only supports pure connectionless mode.
.\"
.\"
.SS "ADDRESS FORMATS"
.PP
The UDP address format is structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct sockaddr_in {
    sa_family_t         sin_family;  /* Address family */
    unsigned short int  sin_port;    /* Port number */
    struct in_addr      sin_addr;    /* Internet address */
    /* padding */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B sockaddr_in
structure contains the following members:
.TP \w'sin_family\(em'u
.I sin_family
The address family.  Always set to
.BR AF_INET " or " AF_UNSPEC .
.PD 0
.TP
.I sin_port
The port number of the transport endpoint in network byte order.
.TP
.I sin_addr
The IP address of the transport endpoint in network byte order.
.TP
.I (padding)
Padding to pad the size of the
.B sockaddr_in
structure to the size of a
.B sockaddr
structure.
.PD
.PP
The structure is padded to the size of a
.BR sockaddr
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
Options are formatted according to the
.B t_opthdr
structure described in
.BR xti (3).
A UDP transport provider compliant to this specification supports none, all or
any subset of the options defined here.  An implementation may restrict the
use of any of these options by offering them only in a privileged or read-only
mode.
.PP
.B TPI-UDP
provides options at the
.BR XTI_GENERIC ", " T_INET_IP " and " T_INET_UDP
option levels as described in the subsections that follow.  Of the
.B T_INET_UDP
level protocol options, none of the options are of end-to-end significance.
.\"
.\"
.SS XTI_GENERIC
.PP
Options at this level are specific to the X/Open Transport Interface (XTI/TLI)
and are common to all transport providers.  For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.PP
The options defined with the option level
.B XTI_GENERIC
are as follows:
.TP
.B XTI_DEBUG
Sets debugging flags for the Stream.  This option is formatted as an array of
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Legal values are implementation defined.  For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.TP
.B XTI_LINGER
Sets whether, and the amount of time if, the Stream will linger waiting for
unsent data to be delivered.  This option is formatted as a
.B t_linger
structure as follows:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_linger {
    t_scalar_t l_onoff;   /* option on/off */
    t_scalar_t l_linger;  /* linger time */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'l_linger\(em'u
.I l_onoff
Specifies whether to linger
.RB ( T_YES ") or not (" T_NO ).
Legal values are
.BR T_YES " and " T_NO .
.PD 0
.TP
.I l_linger
Specifies the amount of time (in seconds) to linger.  Legal values are
.BR T_INFINITE ", " T_UNSPEC
and all positive numbers including zero.
.PD
.RE
.IP ""
For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.TP
.B XTI_RCVBUF
Specifies the size, in bytes, of the receive buffer.  This option is formatted
as a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Legal values are all positive, non-zero numbers.  For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.TP
.B XTI_RCVLOWAT
Specifies the low water mark above which received data will be indicated and
delivered to the user.  This option is formatted as
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Legal values are all positive, non-zero numbers.  For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.TP
.B XTI_SNDBUF
Specifies the size, in bytes, of the transmit buffer.  This option is
formatted as a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Legal values are all positive, non-zero numbers.  For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.TP
.B XTI_SNDLOWAT
Specifies the low water mark above which queued data will be transmitted to
the peer.  This option is formatted as a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Legal values are all positive, non-zero numbers.  For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_INET_IP
.PP
Options with this level are specific to the Internet Protocol (IP)
.[
rfc791
.]
and are common to all the protocol levels in IP.  For more information, see
.BR tpi_ip (7).
.PP
The options defined with the option level
.B T_INET_IP
are as follows:
.TP
.B T_IP_OPTIONS
Provides control for the T_IP OPTIONS field.  Used for debugging.  This option
is formatted as an array of
.BR "unsigned char" ,
up to 40 elements.  For more information, see
.BR tpi_ip (7).
.TP
.B T_IP_TOS
Provides control of the type-of-service byte present in each transmited T_IP
packet.  This option is formated as an
.BR "unsigned char" .
Legal values can be generated with the
.BR SET_TOS ()
macro described in
.BR tpi_ip (7).
For more information, see
.BR tpi_ip (7).
.TP
.B T_IP_TTL
Provides control of the time-to-live byte present in each transmitted T_IP
packet.  This option is formatted as an
.BR "unsigned char" .
Legal values are from 0 to 255.  For more information, see
.BR tpi_ip (7).
.TP
.B T_IP_REUSEADDR
Allows multiple non-listening binds to the same address.  This option is
formatted as an
.BR "unsigned int" .
Legal values are
.BR T_YES " and " T_NO .
For more information, see
.BR tpi_ip (7).
.TP
.B T_IP_DONTROUTE
Bypasses routing tables and routes directly to an interface.  Used for
debugging.  This option is formatted as an
.BR "unsigned int" .
Legal values are
.BR T_YES " and " T_NO .
For more information, see
.BR tpi_ip (7).
.TP
.B T_IP_BROADCAST
Allows broadcast addresses to be used.  This option is not applicable to TCP
and is always set to
.BR T_NO .
This options is formatted as an
.BR "unsigned int" .
Legal values are
.BR T_YES " and " T_NO .
For more information, see
.BR tpi_ip (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_INET_UDP
.PP
Options within this level are specific to the User Datagram Protocol
(UDP)
yet are used by protocol levels using UDP transport.
.PP
The options defined with the option level
.B T_INET_UDP
are as follows:
.TP
.B T_UDP_CHECKSUM
This option allows disabling/enabling of the
.B T_UDP
checksum computation.  The legal values are
.B T_YES
(checksum enabled) and
.B T_NO
(checksum disabled).
.sp
If this option is returned with
.BR t_rcvudata (3),
its value indicates whether a checksum was present in the received datagram or
not.
.sp
Numerous cases of undetected errors have been reported when applications
choose to turn of checksums for efficiency.  The advisability of ever turning
off the checksum algorithm is very controversial.
.sp
This option is formatted as a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
It can take on values
.BR T_YES " and " T_NO .
This option is an
.IR "absolute requirement" .
This option is of
.IR "end-to-end significance" .
.\"
.SH "LOCAL MANAGEMENT INTERFACE"
.PP
.\"
.SS T_INFO_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
.\"
.SS T_INFO_ACK\fR(7)
.PP
.TP
.I TSDU_size
.B TPI-UDP
supports a maximum payload size of 65535 byte minus 40 bytes of IP header
minus 12 bytes of UDP header, or 65480 bytes.
.TP
.I ETSDU_size
.B TPI-IP
does not support the concept of expedited data.  This field returns
.BR T_INVALID ,
and any attempt to send expedited data will return
.BR TNOTSUPPORT .
.TP
.I CDATA_size
.B TPI-UDP
supports the concept of connection data in pseudo-connection oriented mode
only.  In connectionless mode, this field returns
.BR T_INVALID .
In pseudo-connection oriented mode, this field returns 65480 as does the
.I TSDU_size
field.
.TP
.I DDATA_size
.B TPI-UDP
supports the conectp of disconnection data in pseduo-connection-oriented mode
only.  In connectionless mode, this field returns
.BR T_INVALID .
In pseudo-connection-oriented mode, this field returns 65480 as does the
.I TSDU_size
field.
.TP
.I ADDR_size
The maximum size of a UDP address.  This field returns the size of the
.B sockaddr_in
structure.  This field may return a larger number at a later date if
.B TPI-UDP
ever supports multi-homing.
.TP
.I OPT_size
This is the maximum size of the
.I OPT_length
field in T-primitives which support options.  This value returns 65535 in the
current implementation.
.TP
.I TIDU_size
This is the maximum size of the interface data unit, which is the maximum
size of data that can be transferred across the interface in a single
.BR getmsg (2)
or
.BR putmsg (2)
system call.  This size is alway less than or equal to the
.I TSDU_size
above.  In the current implementation, the size is 65480 as is the
.IR TSDU_size .
.TP
.I SERV_type
The service type is one of the following:
.RS
.TP
.B T_CLTS
Connectionless service.
.B TPI-UDP
support connectionless service by default.  When a Stream is first opened,
.B T_CLTS
will be returned.  After a successful bind or connect operation, the value
returned may be
.B T_COTS
instead.
.TP
.B T_COTS
Connection-oriented service without orderly release.
.B TPI-UDP
supports a pseudo-connection-oriented service.
.TP
.B T_COTS_ORD
Connection-oriented service with orderly release.
.B TPI-UDP
does not support orderly release and this service type will not be returned in
the
.BR T_INFO_ACK (7).
.RE
.TP
.I CURRENT_state
The current state of the service interface as described in
.BR tpi (7).
.TP
.I PROVIDER_flag
Provider flags are a bitwise OR of zero or more of the following:
.RS
.TP
.B T_SNDZERO
Indicates that the transport user is permitted to send data with a message
length of zero.
.B TPI-UDP
does not support the transmission of zero length TSDUs.  This flag will be
clear.
.TP
.B XPG4_1
Indicates that the transport provider conforms to XTI in XTP4 and supports
the new primitives
.BR T_ADDR_REQ (7)
and
.BR T_ADDR_ACK (7).
This flag is normally set.
.RE
.\"
.SS T_ADDR_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
.\"
.SS T_ADDR_ACK\fR(7)
.PP
.TP
.IR LOCADDR_length ", " LOCADDR_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_in
structure that describes the
.BR TPI-UDP
addresses to which the Stream is bound.  If the Stream is not in a bound
state, then
.IR LOCADDR_length " and " LOCADDR_offset
return zero (0).
.TP
.IR REMADDR_length ", " REMADDR_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_in
structure that describes the
.BR TPI-UDP
address to which the Stream is connected.  If the Stream is not in a connected
or connecting state, then
.IR REMADDR_length " and " REMADDR_offset
return zero (0).
.IP ""
Note that the
.B TPI-UDP
provider is only in a connected or connecting state when operating in the
pseudo-connection-oriented mode.
.\"
.SS T_CAPABILITY_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
.\"
.SS T_CAPABILITY_ACK\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive returns the
.BR T_info_ack (7)
structure interpreted as described in
.RI \(lq T_INFO_ACK \(rq,
above.
.\"
.SS T_BIND_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
.TP
.IR ADDR_length ", " ADDR_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_in
structures that contain the
.B TPI-UDP
addresses to bind.
.B TPI-UDP
supports wildcard addresses and the address
.BR INADDR_ANY .
This field can currently only contain a signle address.
.TP
.IR CONIND_number
Specifies the number of connection indications.  Specifying a non-zero number
of connection indications will place the provider in the
pseudo-connection-oriented mode.  Any packet received from a unique source
address will generate a connection indication accompanied by data.  Connection
indications can be accepted with or without data or refused with or without data.
This number specifies the maximum number of outstanding connection indications
(those that are neither accepted nor refused) that the provider will deliver.
.\"
.SS T_BIND_ACK\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
.TP
.IR ADDR_length ", " ADDR_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_in
structure that contains the
.B TPI-UDP
address that was bound.  This field can currently only contain a single
address.
.IP ""
The bound address
.I sin_addr
returned in this field may be
.B INADDR_ANY
if 
.B INADDR_ANY
was requested, or no address was provided to the bind.  However, the
.I sin_port
component of the address will be allocated dynamically and set to a non-zero
port number if zero (indicating any port) was specified on bind, or no address
was provided to the bind.  If a non-zero port number could not be dynamically
allocated,
.BR TNOADDR
is returned in accordance with
.BR tpi (7).
.TP
.I CONIND_number
Inidicates the negotiated number of connection indications.  This is normally
the same value a requested; however, if the user requests a number that is
considered too large, this number might be a more conservative value.
.IP ""
Note that a non-zero number is returned in this field only if the provider is
in the pseudo-connection-oriented mode.
.\"
.SS T_UNBIND_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
.\"
.SS T_OK_ACK\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
.\"
.SS T_ERROR_ACK\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
.\"
.SS T_OPTMGMT_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7),
with the options described under
.RI \(lq OPTIONS \(rq,
above.
.\"
.SS T_OPTMGMT_ACK\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7),
with the options described under
.RI \(lq OPTIONS \(rq,
above.
.\"
.\"
.SH "PROTOCOL SERVICE INTERFACE"
.PP
The
.I /dev/udp
driver provides a single service interface type: the connectionless mode.  The
.I /dev/udp2
driver provides both a connectionless mode service interface type, as well as a
pseudo-connection-oriented mode service interface type.
.\"
.SS T_UNITDATA_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7)
in the connectionless mode.
.TP
.IR DEST_length ", " DEST_offset
Specifies the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_in
structure containing the destination IP address and port number to which the
message is to be sent.
.TP
.IR OPT_length ", " OPT_offset
Specifies the length and offset form the beginning of the message block of the
options requested for the packet.  See
.RI \(lq OPTIONS \(rq,
above.  The only options that have an effect on the UDP packets sent by the
.B TPI-UDP
provider are as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B T_IP_OPTIONS
Specifying a value for this option will affect the IP options in the
associated outgoing packet.  The value specified will be used instead of the
default for the Stream.  (In the current implementation this option is not
supported.)
.TP
.B T_IP_TOS
Specifying a value for this option will affect the type of service field in
the associated outgoing packet.  The value specified will be used instead of
the default for the Stream.
.TP
.B T_IP_TTL
Specifying a value for this option will affect the time to live field in
the associated outgoing packet.  The value specified will be used instead of
the default for the Stream.
.TP
.B T_IP_ADDR
Specifying a value for this option will affect the source address of
the associated outgoing packet.  The value specified will be used instead of
the default for the outgoing interface.
.TP
.B T_UDP_CHECKSUM
Specifying a value for this option will affect the checksumming of the
associated outgoing packet.  The value specified will be used instead of
the default for the Stream.
.RE
.IP ""
Other option values specified with the primitive will be ignored.
.\"
.SS T_UNITDATA_IND\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7)
in the connectionless mode.
.TP
.IR SRC_length ", " SRC_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_in
structure containing the source address and port number from which the UDP
packet was sent.
.TP
.IR OPT_length ", " OPT_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
options present in the packet.  See
.RI \(lq OPTIONS \(rq,
above.  The only options that are indicated by the
.B TPI-UDP
provider are as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B T_IP_OPTIONS
Indicates the IP options that were present in the received packet.  If no IP options were present,
this option value will not be indicated.  This value does not affect the value used for outgoing
packets. (In the current implementation this option is not supported.)
.TP
.B T_IP_TOS
Indicates the value of the type of service field from the received packet.  This value does not
affect the value used for outgoing packets.
.TP
.B T_IP_TTL
Indicates the value of the time to live field from the received packet.  This value does not affect
the value used for outgoing packets.
.TP
.B T_IP_ADDR
Indicates the value of the IP destination (local) address from the received packet.  This value does
not affect the value used for outgoing packets.
.TP
.B T_UDP_CHECKSUM
Indicates whether the received packet was checksummed.  This value does not affect the value used
for outgoing packets.
.RE
.IP ""
No other option values will be indicated.
.\"
.SS T_UDERROR_IND\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
.TP
.IR DEST_length ", " DEST_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_in
structure that contains the
.B TPI-UDP
address to which the unit data that encountered the error was sent.
.TP
.IR OPT_length ", " OPT_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
options associated with the unit data that encountered the error.  See
.RI \(lq OPTIONS \(rq,
above.
.TP
.I ERROR_type
Error types in connectionless mode are a combination of the ICMP error type in
the second lease significant byte combined with the ICMP error code in the
least significant byte.  Values are a follows:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lblbci.
_
Code:Type:Value
_
ICMP_DEST_UNREACH:ICMP_NET_UNREACH:0x0300
:ICMP_HOST_UNREACH:0x0301
:ICMP_PROT_UNREACH:0x0302
:ICMP_PORT_UNREACH:0x0303
:ICMP_FRAG_NEEDED:0x0304
:ICMP_SR_FAILED:0x0305
:ICMP_NET_UNKNOWN:0x0306
:ICMP_HOST_UNKNOWN:0x0307
:ICMP_HOST_ISOLATED:0x0308
:ICMP_NET_ANO:0x0309
:ICMP_HOST_ANO:0x030a
:ICMP_NET_UNR_TOS:0x030b
:ICMP_HOST_UNR_TOS:0x030c
:ICMP_PKT_FILTERED:0x030d
:ICMP_PREC_VIOLATION:0x030e
:ICMP_PREC_CUTOFF:0x030f
_
ICMP_SOURCE_QUENCH:\-:0x0400
_
ICMP_TIME_EXCEEDED:ICMP_EXC_TTL:0x0b00
:ICMP_EXC_FRAGTIME:0x0b01
_
.TE
.\"
.SS T_CONN_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
The
.I /dev/udp
driver does not support psuedo-connection-oriented service modes.  For the
.I /dev/udp2
driver, this primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7),
with a few exceptions:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The primitive can be issued on a Stream that has not yet been bound; i.e. that
is in the
.I TS_UNBND
state.  The
.B TPI-IP
provider will autobind the Stream to an IP address of
.BR INADDR_ANY ,
and a port number that is selected dynamically.  The resulting Stream will be
a pseudo-connection-oriented Stream.  This is primarily for compatibility with
the
.BR sockets (3)
library, but is also the only way that a port number can be bound and then
pseudo-connection-oriented mode entered.
The
TPI
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
specification indicates that the reponse in this situation should be an
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with either a
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
or a
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
error.
.IP 2.
The primitive can be issued on a Stream that has been bound, but which reports
a service type of
.I T_CLTS
in the
.BR T_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive.  This, again, is primarily for compatibility with the
.BR sockets (3)
library.  The
TPI
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
specification indicates that the response in this situation should be an
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with a
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
error.
.TP
.IR DEST_length " and " DEST_offset
Specifies the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_in
structure containing the destination IP address and port number to which the
connection is to be formed.
.TP
.IR OPT_length " and " OPT_offset
Specifies the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
options requested for the connection.  See
.RI \(lq OPTIONS \(rq,
above.  The only options that have an effect on the UDP packets sent by the
.B TPI-UDP
provider are as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B T_IP_OPTIONS
Specifying a value for this option will affect the IP options in the associated outgoing packet and
further packets sent using the
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive.  The value specified will become the default for the Stream.  (In the current
implementation this option is not supported.)
.TP
.B T_IP_TOS
Specifying a value for this option will affect the type of service field in the associated outgoing
packet and further packets sent using the
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive.  The value specified will become the default for the Stream.
.TP
.B T_IP_TTL
Specifying a value for this option will affect the time to live field in the associated outgoing
packet and further packets sent using the
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive.  The value specified will become the default for the Stream.
.TP
.B T_IP_ADDR
Specifying a value for this option will affect the source address of the associated outgoing packet
and further packets sent using the
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive.  The value specified will become the default for the outgoing interface.
.TP
.B T_UDP_CHECKSUM
Specifying a value for this option will affect the checksumming of the associated outgoing packet
and further packets sent using the
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive.  The value specified will become the default for the Stream.
.RE
.IP ""
Other option values specified with the primitive will be ignored.
.\"
.SS T_CONN_CON\fR(7)
.PP
The
.I /dev/udp
driver does not support psuedo-connection-oriented service modes.  For the
.I /dev/udp2
driver, this primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7),
with a few exceptions:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The
.B TPI-UDP
provider does not provide true confirmation of a connection in
pseudo-connection-oriented mode.  The confirmation is issued automatically by
the
.B TPI-UDP
provider upon receipt of a proper
.BR T_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive.
.TP
.IR RES_length " and " RES_offset
Specifies the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_in
structure that contains the responding address.
.TP
.IR OPT_length " and " OPT_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the options present in
the connection request,
.BR T_CONN_REQ (7).  See
.RI \(lq OPTIONS \(rq,
above.  The option values represent negotation with the local provider only and are not end-to-end.
The only options that are indicated by the
.B TPI-UDP
provider are as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B T_IP_OPTIONS
Indicates the IP options that were present in the connection request.  If no IP options were
present, this option value will not be indicated.  This value reflects the value used for outgoing
packets.  (In the current implementation this option is not supported.)
.TP
.B T_IP_TOS
Indicates the value of the type of service field from the connection request.  This value reflects
the value used for outgoing packets.
.TP
.B T_IP_TTL
Indicates the value of the time to live field from the connection request.  This value reflects the
value used for outgoing packets.
.TP
.B T_IP_ADDR
Indicates the value of the IP destination (local) address from the connection request.  This value
reflects the value used for outgoing packets.
.TP
.B T_UDP_CHECKSUM
Indicates the value of UDP checksum from the connection request. This value reflects the value used
for outgoing packets.
.RE
.IP ""
No other option values will be indicated.
.\"
.SS T_CONN_IND\fR(7)
.PP
The
.I /dev/udp
driver does not support psuedo-connection-oriented service modes.  For the
.I /dev/udp2
driver, this primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7),
with a few exceptions:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The
.B TPI-UDP
provider does not provide true connection-oriented modes.  In pseudo-connection oriented mode with a
listening Stream, connection indications are synthesized from any received packet that matches the
listening Stream and delivered as a connection indication.
.TP
.IR SRC_length " and " SRC_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_in
structure containing the source address and port number from which the indicated UDP
packet was sent.
.TP
.IR OPT_length " and " OPT_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
options present in the packet.  See
.RI \(lq OPTIONS \(rq,
above.  The only options that are indicated by the
.B TPI-UDP
provider are as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B T_IP_OPTIONS
Indicates the IP options that were present in the received packet.  If no IP options were present,
this option value will not be indicated.  This value does not affect the value used for outgoing
packets.  (In the current implementation this option is not supported.)
.TP
.B T_IP_TOS
Indicates the value of the type of service field from the received packet.  This value does not
affect the value used for outgoing packets.
.TP
.B T_IP_TTL
Indicates the value of the time to live field from the received packet.  This value does not affect
the value used for outgoing packets.
.TP
.B T_IP_ADDR
Indicates the value of the IP destination (local) address from the received packet.  This value does
not affect the value used for outgoing packets.
.TP
.B T_UDP_CHECKSUM
Indicates whether the received packet was checksummed.  This value does not affect the value used
for outgoing packets.
.RE
.IP ""
No other option values will be indicated.
.TP
.IR SEQ_number
Indicates the sequence number for the connection indication to be used by the TS user in a
subsequent
.BR T_DISCON_REQ (7)
or
.BR T_CONN_RES (7)
primitive.
.\"
.SS T_CONN_RES\fR(7)
.PP
The
.I /dev/udp
driver does not support psuedo-connection-oriented service modes.  For the
.I /dev/udp2
driver, this primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7),
with a few exceptions:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The
.B TPI-UDP
provider does not support true connection-oriented modes: only a pseudo-connection-oriented mode.
Accepting a connection indication with the primitive will deliver queued and any further received
packets with the same source and destination address and port combinations to the accepting Stream.
.IP 2.
Default options associated with the Stream are not negotiated end-to-end and are simply set as
specified.
.TP
.I ACCEPTOR_id
Specifies the acceptor identifier of the Stream onto which the connection is to be accepted.  If the
connection is to be accepted on the same Stream upon which the corresponding
.BR T_CONN_IND (7)
was received, this field should be zero (0).  It is an error to accept a connection on the listening
Stream if there is more than one connection indication outstanding.
.TP
.IR OPT_length " and " OPT_offset
Specifies the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
options requested for the connection.  See
.RI \(lq OPTIONS \(rq,
above.  The only options that have an effect on the UDP packets sent by the
.B TPI-UDP
provider are as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B T_IP_OPTIONS
Specifying a value for this option will affect the IP options in the associated outgoing packet and
for further packets sent using the
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive.  The value specified will become the default for the Stream.  (In the current
implementation this option is not supported.)
.TP
.B T_IP_TOS
Specifying a value for this option will affect the type of service field in the associated outgoing
packet and for further packets sent using the
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive.  The value specified will become the default for the Stream.
.TP
.B T_IP_TTL
Specifying a value for this option will affect the time to live field in the associated outgoing
packet and for further packets sent using the
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive.  The value specified will become the default for the Stream.
.TP
.B T_IP_ADDR
Specifying a value for this option will affect the source address of the associated outgoing packet
and for further packets sent using the
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive.  The value specified will become the default for the outgoing interface.
.TP
.B T_UDP_CHECKSUM
Specifying a value for this option will affect the checksumming of the associated outgoing packet
and for further packets sent using the
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive.  The value specified will become the default for the Stream.
.RE
.IP ""
Other option values specified with the primitive will be ignored.
.TP
.I SEQ_number
Specifies the sequence number in the corresponding
.BR T_CONN_IND (7)
primitive to which this primitive is responding.
.\"
.SS T_DATA_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
The
.I /dev/udp
driver does not support psuedo-connection-oriented service modes.  For the
.I /dev/udp2
driver, this primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
.TP
.I MORE_flag
The
.B TPI-UDP
provider does not support segmentation.  If this flag is non-zero, an
.RB [ EPROTO ]
fatal error will be issued.
.\"
.SS T_DATA_IND\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7)
in the pseudo-connection-oriented mode.  The packet will be issued to the
connected destination address.
.TP
.I MORE_flag
The
.B TPI-UDP
provider does not support segmentation.  If this flag is non-zero, an
.RB [ EPROTO ]
fatal error will be issued.
.\"
.SS T_EXDATA_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
The
.I /dev/udp
driver does not support psuedo-connection-oriented service modes.  For the
.I /dev/udp2
driver, this primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
The
.B TPI-UDP
provider does not support expedited data in the pseud-connection-oriented
mode.  If this primitive is issued, a
.RB [ EPROTO ]
fatal error will be issued by the provider.
.TP
.I MORE_flag
The
.B TPI-UDP
provider does not support segmentation.  If this flag is non-zero, an
.RB [ EPROTO ]
fatal error will be issued.
.\"
.SS T_EXDATA_IND\fR(7)
.PP
The
.I /dev/udp
driver does not support psuedo-connection-oriented service modes.  For the
.I /dev/udp2
driver, this primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
The
.B TPI-UDP
provider does not support expedited data and will not issue this primitive.
.\"
.SS T_OPTDATA_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
The
.I /dev/udp
driver does not support psuedo-connection-oriented service modes.  For the
.I /dev/udp2
driver, this primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
.TP
.I DATA_flag
The
.B TPI-UDP
provider does not support segmentation.  Segmentation of IP packets is
performed at a lower layer.  Therefore, if the
.I DATA_flag
field contains a non-zero value, the provider will issue a fatal
.RB [ EPROTO ]
error.
.TP
.IR OPT_length " and " OPT_offset
Specifies the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
options requested for the packet.  See
.RI \(lq OPTIONS \(rq,
above.  The only options that have an effect on the UDP packets sent by the
.B TPI-UDP
provider are as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B T_IP_OPTIONS
Specifying a value for this option will affect the IP options in the
associated outgoing packet.  The value specified will be used instead of the
default for the Stream.  (In the current implementation this option is not
supported.)
.TP
.B T_IP_TOS
Specifying a value for this option will affect the type of service field in
the associated outgoing packet.  The value specified will be used instead of
the default for the Stream.
.TP
.B T_IP_TTL
Specifying a value for this option will affect the time to live field in
the associated outgoing packet.  The value specified will be used instead of
the default for the Stream.
.TP
.B T_IP_ADDR
Specifying a value for this option will affect the source address of
the associated outgoing packet.  The value specified will be used instead of
the default for the outgoing interface.
.TP
.B T_UDP_CHECKSUM
Specifying a value for this option will affect the checksumming of the
associated outgoing packet.  The value specified will be used instead of
the default for the Stream.
.RE
.IP ""
Other option values specified with the primitive will be ignored.
.\"
.SS T_OPTDATA_IND\fR(7)
.PP
The
.I /dev/udp
driver does not support psuedo-connection-oriented service modes.  For the
.I /dev/udp2
driver, this primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
.TP
.I DATA_flag
The
.B TPI-UDP
provider performs reassembly of fragmented IP packets before delivery.
Therefore, the
.I DATA_flag
will alway contain zero (0).
.TP
.IR OPT_length " and " OPT_offset
Indicates the length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
options present in the packet.  See
.RI \(lq OPTIONS \(rq,
above.  The only options that are indicated by the
.B TPI-UDP
provider are as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B T_IP_OPTIONS
Indicates the IP options that were present in the received packet.  If no IP
options were present, this option value will not be indicated.  (In the
current implementation this option is not supported.)
.TP
.B T_IP_TOS
Indicates the value of the type of service field from the received packet.
.TP
.B T_IP_TTL
Indicates the value of the time to live field from the received packet.
.TP
.B T_IP_ADDR
Indicates the value of the IP destination (local) address from the received packet.
.TP
.B T_UDP_CHECKSUM
Indicates whether the received packet was checksummed.
.RE
.IP ""
No other option values will be indicated.
.\"
.SS T_DISCON_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
The
.I /dev/udp
driver does not support psuedo-connection-oriented service modes.  For the
.I /dev/udp2
driver, this primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
.\"
.SS T_DISCON_IND\fR(7)
.PP
The
.I /dev/udp
driver does not support psuedo-connection-oriented service modes.  For the
.I /dev/udp2
driver, this primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
.TP
.I DISCON_reason
Disconnect reasons in pseudo-connection-oriented mode are a combination of the
ICMP error type in the second least significant byte combined with the ICMP
error code in the least significant byte.  Values are as follows:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lblbci.
_
Code:Type:Value
_
ICMP_DEST_UNREACH:ICMP_NET_UNREACH:0x0300
:ICMP_HOST_UNREACH:0x0301
:ICMP_PROT_UNREACH:0x0302
:ICMP_PORT_UNREACH:0x0303
:ICMP_FRAG_NEEDED:0x0304
:ICMP_SR_FAILED:0x0305
:ICMP_NET_UNKNOWN:0x0306
:ICMP_HOST_UNKNOWN:0x0307
:ICMP_HOST_ISOLATED:0x0308
:ICMP_NET_ANO:0x0309
:ICMP_HOST_ANO:0x030a
:ICMP_NET_UNR_TOS:0x030b
:ICMP_HOST_UNR_TOS:0x030c
:ICMP_PKT_FILTERED:0x030d
:ICMP_PREC_VIOLATION:0x030e
:ICMP_PREC_CUTOFF:0x030f
_
ICMP_SOURCE_QUENCH:\-:0x0400
_
ICMP_TIME_EXCEEDED:ICMP_EXC_TTL:0x0b00
:ICMP_EXC_FRAGTIME:0x0b01
_
.TE
.TP
.I SEQ_number
The sequence number of a currently outstanding connection indication to which
the disconnect corresponds.  This value is non-zero only on a listening Stream
for which an outstanding
.BR T_CONN_IND (7)
primitive has been issued with no
.BR T_DISCON_REQ (7)
or
.BR T_CONN_RES (8)
having been issued by the TS user with the same sequence number.
.\"
.SS T_ORDREL_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
The
.B TPI-UDP
provider does not support orderly release.  If the TS user issues this
primitive, the provider will negatively acknowledge the primitive with a fatal
.RB [ EPROTO ]
error.
.\"
.SS T_ORDREL_IND\fR(7)
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR tpi (7).
The
.B TPI-UDP
provider does not support orderly release.  The provider will not issue this
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH "IOCTLS"
.PP
The
.B TPI-UDP
provider does not support input-output controls.  For a standard set of
input-output controls supporting the
.BR xti (3)
library functions, push the
.BR timod (4)
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ERROR HANDLING"
.PP
Error handling is in accordance with
.BR tpi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
Errors are in accordance with
.BR tpi (7).
They are repeated here as follows:
.\"
.SS "Error Acknowledgement Codes"
.PP
The following error codes can be present in the
.I TLI_error
field of the
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7)
message.
.TP \w'[\fBTPROVMISMATCH\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADADDR ]
A specified address was improperly formatted or contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ TBADOPT ]
The specified options were improperly formatted or contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ TACCES ]
The user did not have permission to a requested address or option.
.TP
.RB [ TBADF ]
The
.I ACCEPTOR_id
does not identify a valid open Stream.
.TP
.RB [ TNOADDR ]
The user did not specify an address and one could not be allocated by the TS provider.
.TP
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The primitive would place the interface out of state.
.TP
.RB [ TBADSEQ ]
The sequence number provided did not correspond to an outstanding connection indication.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A system error occured and the UNIX error code is present in the
.I UNIX_error
field of the primitive.
.TP
.RB [ TBADDATA ]
The user specified an amount of data that exceeds the corresponding limit as reported in the
.BR T_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ TBADFLAG ]
The flags specified were invalid or not supported.
.TP
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
The primitive is not support by the service provider, or not supported in the current mode of
operation.
.TP
.RB [ TADDRBUSY ]
The user specified an address that is already bound to another Stream.
.TP
.RB [ TPROVMISMATCH ]
The user specified an
.I ACCEPTOR_id
that corresponds to a Stream that belongs to another provider.
.TP
.RB [ TRESQLEN ]
The user specified an
.I ACCEPTOR_id
that corresponds to a Stream that is bound in the listening mode.
.TP
.RB [ TRESADDR ]
The user specified an
.I ACCEPTOR_id
that corresponds to a Stream that is bound to a different address than that of the listening Stream
(and the provider does not support this).
.\"
.SS Unitdata Error and Disconnect Codes
.PP
The following error codes can be present in the
.I ERROR_type
field of a
.BR T_UDERROR_IND (7)
primitive, or in the
.I DISCON_reason
field of a
.BR T_DISCON_IND (7)
primitive.
.TP \w'[ICMP_DEST_UNREACH/ICMP_PREC_VIOLATION]\(em'u
.RB [ ICMP_DEST_UNREACH / ICMP_NET_UNREACH ]
Network unreachable.
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_DEST_UNREACH / ICMP_HOST_UNREACH ]
Host unreachable.
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_DEST_UNREACH / ICMP_PROT_UNREACH ]
UDP protocol unreachable.
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_DEST_UNREACH / ICMP_PORT_UNREACH ]
UDP port unreachable.
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_DEST_UNREACH / ICMP_FRAG_NEEDED ]
Fragmentation needed and none requested.
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_DEST_UNREACH / ICMP_SR_FAILED ]
Source route failed.
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_DEST_UNREACH / ICMP_NET_UNKNOWN ]
Network unknown.
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_DEST_UNREACH / ICMP_HOST_UNKNOWN ]
Host unknown.
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_DEST_UNREACH / ICMP_HOST_ISOLATED ]
Host isolated.
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_DEST_UNREACH / ICMP_NET_ANO ]
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_DEST_UNREACH / ICMP_HOST_ANO ]
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_DEST_UNREACH / ICMP_NET_UNR_TOS ]
Type of service unrecognized by network.
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_DEST_UNREACH / ICMP_HOST_UNR_TOS ]
Type of service unrecognized by host.
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_DEST_UNREACH / ICMP_PKT_FILTERED ]
Packet filtered.
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_DEST_UNREACH / ICMP_PREC_VIOLATION ]
Precedence violation.
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_DEST_UNREACH / ICMP_PREC_CUTOFF ]
Precedence cutoff.
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_SOURCE_QUENCH ]
Source quench (congestion).
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_TIME_EXCEEDED / ICMP_EXC_TTL ]
Time to live exceeded (too many hops).
.TP
.RB [ ICMP_TIME_EXCEEDED / ICMP_EXC_FRAGTIME ]
Fragmentation time exceeded.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B UDP
has several implementations.  This manpage is for the
.BR INET (4)
implementation that provides
.BR tpi (7)
access to the Linux NET4 version of
.BR UDP.
For more information on the
Linux NET4
version, see
.BR udp (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR udp (7),
.BR udp (4),
.BR udp2 (4),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR tpi_ip (7),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_ip (3),
.BR xti_udp (3),
.BR sockets (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B UDP
for
.I STREAMS
is largely compatible with
.IR STREAMS -based
implementations such as
Lachman or Mentat TCP/IP stacks and
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.[
soldoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
except where indicated.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
