'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CD_DISABLE_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/03/01 02:44:06 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:06 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CD_DISABLE_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:06 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS"
.SH NAME
.B CD_DISABLE_REQ
\- disable a device
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_disposal;
} cd_disable_req_t;

/* Actions to take with undelivered data in a CD_DISABLE_REQ or CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ */
#define CD_FLUSH        0x00    /* Discard undelivered data */
#define CD_WAIT         0x01    /* Attempt to deliver unsent data */
#define CD_DELIVER      0x02
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This user originated primitive requests that the communication device,
previously enabled with a successful
.BR CD_ENABLE_REQ (7)
primitive, be disabled.  In addition, it specifies the disposition of unsent
messages.
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I cd_primitive
Specifies the primitives type.
.TP
.I cd_disposal
Specifies how unsent messages are to be disposed.  This field can be one of
the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B CD_FLUSH
Discard undeliverable data.
All data that is unsent at the time that the
.B CD_DISABLE_REQ
primitive is received will be discarded.  Any data awaiting transmission the
the device's write queue will be flushed.
.TP
.B CD_WAIT
Attempt to deliver unsent data.
All data that is unsent at the time that the
.B CD_DISABLE_REQ
primitive is received the provider will attempt to send before confirming the
primitive.  The provider will not wait for acknowledgment of sent messages.
.TP
.B CD_DELIVER
Deliver unsent data.
All data that is unsent at the time that the
.B CD_DISABLE_REQ
primitive is received the provider will deliver before confirming the
primitive.  The provider will wait for acknowledgment of sent messages.
.RE
.SS State
This primitive is valid in state
.BR CD_ENABLED .
The new state is
.BR CD_DISABLED .
.SH RESPONSE
This primitive requires the provider to acknowledge receipt of the primitive
as follows:
.PP
.B "Successful:"
When successful, the provider confirms the receipt of the primitive with a
.BR CD_DISABLE_CON (7)
primitive indicating the success of the operation.  The new state is
.BR CD_UNATTACHED .
.PP
.B "Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):"
When unsuccessful, the provider acknowledges the receipt of the primitive with
a
.BR CD_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive indicating the error.  The state is unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.B "Non-Fatal Errors:"
applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADADDRESS ]
.\"Address was invalid.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADADDRTYPE ]
.\"Invalid address type.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDIAL ]
.\"Dial information was invalid.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDIALTYPE ]
.\"Invalid dial information type.
.TP
.RB [ CD_BADDISPOSAL ]
Invalid disposal parameter.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADFRAME ]
.\"Defective SDU received.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADPPA ]
.\"Invalid PPA identifier.
.TP
.RB [ CD_BADPRIM ]
Unrecognized primitive.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_DISC ]
.\"Disconnected.
.TP
.RB [ CD_EVENT ]
Protocol-specific event occurred.
.TP
.RB [ CD_FATALERR ]
Device has become unusable.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_INITFAILED ]
.\"Line initialization failed.
.TP
.RB [ CD_NOTSUPP ]
Primitive not supported by this device.
.TP
.RB [ CD_OUTSTATE ]
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CD_PROTOSHORT ]
M_PROTO block too short.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_READTIMEOUT ]
.\"Read request timed out before data arrived.
.TP
.RB [ CD_SYSERR ]
UNIX system error.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_WRITEFAIL ]
.\"Unitdata request failed.
.SH FILES
<sys/cdi.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CD_DISABLE_CON (7),
.BR CD_ENABLE_REQ (7),
.BR CD_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
This interface conforms to CDI with Gcom extensions.
.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
The Communications Device Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.TA
