'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CD_ENABLE_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2004/05/30 09:40:52 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/05/30 09:40:52 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CD_ENABLE_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/05/30 09:40:52 $" "$Name:  $" "Communications Device Interface (CDI)"
.SH NAME
.B CD_ENABLE_REQ, cd_enable_req_t
\- prepare a device
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_dial_type;
    cd_ulong cd_dial_length;
    cd_ulong cd_dial_offset;
} cd_enable_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This user originated primitive requests that the communications device be
prepared for service and enabled.
.PP
A CDI stream that is in the
.B CD_DISABLED
state is not yet ready for transmission.  Before the stream can be used for
transmission, it must be successfully enabled with the
.B CD_ENABLE_REQ
primitive.
Successful processing of the
.B CD_ENABLE_REQ
primitive moves the stream to the
.B CD_ENABLED
state.
.PP
If the communications device returns the
.B CD_CANDIAL
flag in the
.I cd_features
field of the
.BR CD_INFO_ACK (7),
the device is capable of dialing and a dial string can be provided,
specified by the
.I cd_dial_length
and
.I cd_dial_offset
fields.
The specification of the dial string is provider- and device-specific.
.PP
In the
.B CD_ENABLED
state, the stream is able to transmit but have not yet necessarily been
allowed for input.
If the stream returns
.B CD_AUTOALLOW
in the
.I cd_features
field of the
.BR CD_INFO_ACK (7),
the communications device will be allowed for both transmission and reception
upon successful completion of the
.BR CD_ENABLE_REQ ;
however, if the
.B CD_AUTOALOW
flag is not returned, the CD user must first call
.BR CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ (7)
before reception can begin.
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I cd_primitive
Specifies the primitives type.
.TP
.I cd_dial_type
Specifies the type of the provided dial string.  The type can be set to a
provider- or device-specific type, or can be set as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B CD_NODIAL
Specifies that there is no dial string associated with the
.BR CD_ENABLE_REQ .
.RE
.TP
.I cd_dial_length
Specifies the length of the dial string.
Specification of dial strings is only allowed when the provider returns
.B CD_CANDIAL
in the
.I cd_features
field of the
.CD CD_INFO_ACK (7).
When no dial string is specified by
the user,
or
.I cd_dial_type
is set to
.BR CD_NODIAL ,
this field is set to zero (0).
.TP
.I cd_dial_offset
Specifies the offset of the dial string from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
When
.I cd_dial_length
is zero (0), this field is ignored.
.SS State
This primitive is valid in state
.BR CD_DISABLED .
The new state is
.B CD_ENABLED
for streams that do not return
.B CD_AUTOALLOW
in the
.I cd_features
field of the
.BR CD_INFO_ACK (7),
or the new state is
.B CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
for those streams that do return
.B CD_AUTOALLOW
in the
.I cd_features
field of the
.BR CD_INFO_ACK (7).
.SH RESPONSE
This primitive requires that the provider acknowledge the receipt of the
primitive as follows:
.PP
.B "Successful:"
Upon success, the provider confirms that the device is enabled with the
.BR CD_ENABLE_CON (7)
primitive.
.PP
.B "Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):"
Upon failure, the provider acknowledges the receipt of the primitive with the
.BR CD_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive indicating the error.
.SH ERRORS
.B "Non-Fatal Errors:"
appropriate non-fatal errors are as follows:
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADADDRESS ]
.\"Address was invalid.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADADDRTYPE ]
.\"Invalid address type.
.TP
.RB [ CD_BADDIAL ]
Dial information was invalid.
.TP
.RB [ CD_BADDIALTYPE ]
Invalid dial information type.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDISPOSAL ]
.\"Invalid disposal parameter.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADFRAME ]
.\"Defective SDU received.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADPPA ]
.\"Invalid PPA identifier.
.TP
.RB [ CD_BADPRIM ]
Unrecognized primitive.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_DISC ]
.\"Disconnected.
.TP
.RB [ CD_EVENT ]
Protocol-specific event occurred.
.TP
.RB [ CD_FATALERR ]
Device has become unusable.
.TP
.RB [ CD_INITFAILED ]
Line initialization failed.
.TP
.RB [ CD_NOTSUPP ]
Primitive not supported by this device.
.TP
.RB [ CD_OUTSTATE ]
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CD_PROTOSHORT ]
M_PROTO block too short.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_READTIMEOUT ]
.\"Read request timed out before data arrived.
.TP
.RB [ CD_SYSERR ]
UNIX system error.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_WRITEFAIL ]
.\"Unitdata request failed.
.SH FILES
<sys/cdi.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CD_ATTACH_REQ (7),
.BR CD_DISABLE_REQ (7),
.BR CD_ENABLE_CON (7),
.BR CD_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Communications Device Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to CDI with Gcom extensions.
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
