'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CD_UNITDATA_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/05/14 07:59:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CD_UNITDATA_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:54 $" "$Name:  $" "Communications Device Interface (CDI)"
.SH NAME
.B CD_UNITDATA_REQ
\- data send request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks.
The
.B M_PROTO
message block is structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
.\"/*
.\" * CD_UNITDATA_REQ, optional M_PROTO type, with M_DATA block(s)
.\" */
typedef struct {
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ushort cd_addr_type;
    cd_ushort cd_priority;
    cd_ulong cd_dest_addr_length;
    cd_ulong cd_dest_addr_offset;
} cd_unitdata_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This user originated primitive requests that the specified data be sent to the
specified destination address with the specified priority.
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I cd_primitive
Specifies the primitives type.
.TP
.I cd_addr_type
.RS
.TP
.B CD_SPECIFIC
Specifies that an address is contained in the primitive.  When
.I cd_addr_type
is set to
.BR CD_SPECIFIC ,
a destination address must be specified in the
.I cd_dest_addr_length
and
.I cd_dest_addr_offset
fields.
.TP
.B CD_BROADCAST
Specifies that the data is to be sent to the implicit broadcast address and no
specific address follows.  When
.I cd_addr_type
is set to
.BR CD_BROADCAST ,
the fields
.I cd_dest_addr_length
and
.I cd_dest_addr_offset
should be coded zero (0) and are ignored by the CD provider.
.TP
.B CD_IMPLICIT
Specifies that an implicit address is to be used, or that the address is
embedded in the data.  When
.I cd_addr_type
is set to
.BR CD_IMPLICIT ,
the fields
.I cd_dest_addr_length
and
.I cd_dest_addr_offset
should be coded zero (0) and are ignored by the CD provider.
No address or embedded address.
.RE
.TP
.I cd_priority
Specifies the priority of the data.  Priorities are provider- and
device-specific.
.TP
.I cd_dest_addr_length
When
.I cd_addr_type
is
.BR CD_SPECIFIC ,
this field specifies the length of the destination address to which to send the
message.  Otherwise, this field is coded zero (0) and ignored by the CD
provider.
.TP
.I cd_dest_addr_offset
When
.I cd_addr_type
is
.BR CD_SPECIFIC ,
this field specifies the offset of the destination address from the start of
the
.B M_PROTO
message block.  Otherwise, this field is ignored by the CD provider.
.SS State
This primitive is valid in states
.BR CD_ENABLED ,
.BR CD_INPUT_ALLOWED ,
.BR CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE ,
.BR CD_READ_ACTIVE .
The state remains unchanged.
.SH RESPONSE
This primitive requires an acknowledgement under the following conditions:
.PP
.B "Successful:"
When field
.I cd_output_style
in
.BR CD_INFO_ACK (7)
is set to
.BR CD_ACKEDOUTPUT ,
then the provider is required to acknowledge the
.B CD_UNITDATA_REQ
with a
.BR CD_UNITDATA_ACK (7).
Otherwise, the primitive does not require an acknowledgement.
In either case, the state remains unchanged.
.PP
.B "Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):"
When unsuccessful, the provider is required to acknowledge the primitive with
a
.BR CD_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive indicating the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B "Non-Fatal Errors:"
applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:
.TP
.RB [ CD_BADADDRESS ]
Address was invalid.
.TP
.RB [ CD_BADADDRTYPE ]
Invalid address type.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDIAL ]
.\"Dial information was invalid.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDIALTYPE ]
.\"Invalid dial information type.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDISPOSAL ]
.\"Invalid disposal parameter.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADFRAME ]
.\"Defective SDU received.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADPPA ]
.\"Invalid PPA identifier.
.TP
.RB [ CD_BADPRIM ]
Unrecognized primitive.
.TP
.RB [ CD_DISC ]
Disconnected.
.TP
.RB [ CD_EVENT ]
Protocol-specific event occurred.
.TP
.RB [ CD_FATALERR ]
Device has become unusable.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_INITFAILED ]
.\"Line initialization failed.
.TP
.RB [ CD_NOTSUPP ]
Primitive not supported by this device.
.TP
.RB [ CD_OUTSTATE ]
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CD_PROTOSHORT ]
M_PROTO block too short.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_READTIMEOUT ]
.\"Read request timed out before data arrived.
.TP
.RB [ CD_SYSERR ]
UNIX system error.
.TP
.RB [ CD_WRITEFAIL ]
Unitdata request failed.
.SH FILES
<sys/cdi.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CD_UNITDATA_IND (7),
.BR CD_UNITDATA_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Communications Device Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to CDI with Gcom extensions.
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
