'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_UNITDATA_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/05/14 07:59:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_UNITDATA_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:55 $" "$Name:  $" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_UNITDATA_REQ (dl_unitdata_req_t)
\- conveys one DLSDU from the DLS user to the DLS provider for transmission
to a peer DLS user.  Because connectionless data transfer is an
unacknowledged service, the DLS provider makes no guarantees of delivery of
connectionless DLSDUs.  It is the responsibility of the DLS user to do
any necessary sequencing or retransmission of DLSDUs in the event of a
presumed loss.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block containing the structure shown below, followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
blocks containing at least one byte of data.  The amount of user data that may
be transferred in a single DLSDU is limited.  This limit is conveyed by the
parameter
.I dl_max_sdu
in the
.BR DL_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t         dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t         dl_dest_addr_length;
    t_uscalar_t         dl_dest_addr_offset;
    dl_priority_t       dl_priority;
} dl_unitdata_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_UNITDATA_REQ .
.TP
.I dl_dest_addr_length
conveys the length of the DLSAP address of the destination DLS user.  If the
destination user is implemented using DLPI, this address is the full DLSAP
address returned on the
.BR DL_BIND_ACK (7).
.TP
.I dl_dest_addr_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block where the destination DLSAP address begins.
.TP
.I dl_priority
indicates the priority value within the supported range for this
particular DLSDU.
.SH STATE
The message is valid in state
.BR DL_IDLE .
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is unchanged.
.SH RESPONSE
If the DLS provider accepts the data for transmission, there is no response.
This does not, however, guarantee that the data will be delivered to the
destination DLS user, since the connectionless data transfer is not a
confirmed service.  If the request is erroneous, message
.BR DL_UDERROR_IND (7)
is returned, and the resulting state is unchanged.
.PP
If for some reason the request cannot be processed, the DLS provider
may generate a
.BR DL_UDERROR_IND (7)
to report the problem.  There is, however, no guarantee that such an error
report will be generated for all undeliverable data units, since
connectionless data transfer is not a confirmed service.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B DL_BADADDR
The destination DLSAP address was in an incorrect format or contained
invalid information.
.TP
.B DL_BADDATA
The amount of data in the current DLSDU exceeded the DLS provider's
DLSDU limit.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.B DL_UNSUPPORTED
Requested priority not supplied by provider.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
