'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: I_ATMARK.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/12/02 01:22:46 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/12/02 01:22:46 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: I_ATMARK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2005/12/02 01:22:46  brian
.\" - more updating
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2005/11/22 11:57:11  brian
.\" - updating documentation for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2005/11/20 20:17:26  brian
.\" - working up ioctl doc
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2005/08/29 10:00:27  brian
.\" - added manpages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH I_ATMARK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Protocols"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B I_ATMARK
\- checks if a \fISTREAMS\fP message is marked
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS   
.PP
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl (int " fd ", I_ATMARK, ... /* " arg " */);"
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the file descriptor of a Stream.  This is the file descriptor that was returned from the
.BR open (2s)
or
.BR pipe (2s)
call when the Stream was created.
.TP
.I cmd
always
.BR I_ATMARK .
.TP
.I arg
is an integer flag specifying what to check.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B I_ATMARK
command informs the user if the current message on the Stream head read queue is marked by a
downstream module or driver.  The
.I arg
argument determines how the checking is done when there are multiple marked messages on the Stream
head read queue.  The possible values of the
.I arg
argument are as follows:
.TP \w'LASTMARK\(em'u
.B ANYMARK
Determine if the message at the head of the Stream head read queue is marked by a downstream module
or driver.
.TP
.B LASTMARK
Determine if the message at the head of the Stream head read queue is the last message that is
marked on the queue by a downstream module or driver.
.PP
The bitwise inclusive OR of the flags
.B ANYMARK
and
.B LASTMARK
is permitted.
.PP
.I STREAMS
message blocks that have the
.B MSGMARK
flag set in the
.I b_flag
member of the
.BR msgb (9)
structure are marked messages.
.IR Solaris \(rg
also provides the
.B MSGMARKNEXT
and
.B MSGNOTMARKNEXT
flags.
The use of these flags is not very clear, but
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
could use them in the
.BR read (2s)
logic to determine whether the next message is marked without removing the message from the queue.
.PP
When
.BR read (2s)
encounters a marked message and data has already been read, the read terminates with the amount of
data already read.  The resulting short read is an indication to the user that a marked message
could exist on the read queue.  (Short reads can also result from zero-byte data, or from a
delimited message.)  When a short read occurs, the user should test for a marked message using the
.B ANYMARK
flag to the
.B I_ATMARK
.BR ioctl (2s)
command.  A subsequent
.BR read (2s)
will consume the marked message.
If a marked message exists, there is the possibility that there is also a marked message
following the marked message.  This can be checked by using the
.B LASTMARK
flag to the
.B I_ATMARK
.BR ioctl (2s)
command.
.PP
The
.I b_flag
member of the
.BR msgb (9)
structure can have the flag
.B MSGMARK
set that allows as module or driver to mark a message.  This is used to support
.BR tcp (4)'s
ability to show the user the last byte of out-of-band data.  Once marked, a message sent to the
Stream head causes the Stream head to remember the message.  A user may check to see if the message
on the front of its Stream head read queue is marked with the
.B I_ATMARK
.BR ioctl (2s)
command.  If a user is reading data from the Stream head and there are multiple messages on the read
queue, and one of those messages is marked,
.BR read (2s)
terminates when it reaches the marked message and returns the data only up to that marked message.
The rest of the data may be obtained with successive reads.
.B ANYMARK
indicates that the user merely wants to check if the message is marked.
.B LASTMARK
indicates that the user wants to see if the message is the only one marked on the queue.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success, the
.B I_ATMARK
.BR ioctl (2s)
command returns zero
.RB ( 0 )
or a positive integer.
Upon failure, the
.B I_ATMARK
.BR ioctl (2s)
command returns
.B -1
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.PP
When successful, the
.B I_ATMARK
operation returns a value of true
.RB ( 1 )
if the marking criteria is met;  false
.RB ( 0 ),
if not met.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When the
.B I_ATMARK
.BR ioctl (2s)
command fails, it returns
.B -1
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to one of the following errors:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I arg
was other than
.BR ANYMARK " or " LASTMARK ,
or a bitwise-OR of the two.
.PP
Any error received in an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message indicating a persistent read error for the Stream will cause
.B I_GETBAND
to fail, and the read error will be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.PP
Any of the errors returned by
.BR getpmsg (2s)
can also be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.PP
In general, any
.BR ioctl (2s)
command can fail if:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EFAULT ]
.IR arg ,
or a pointer member of a structure pointed to by
.IR arg ,
points to an address that is outside the caller's valid address space.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.IR fd ", " cmd ", " arg " or a member of " arg " or a member of a structure pointed to by " arg
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
.I fd
is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSTR ]
.I fd
is not a
.I STREAMS
special file.
.TP
.RB [ EOPNOTSUPP ]
.I fd
does not support the requested operation.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
.I fd
refers to Stream that is closing.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTTY ]
.I fd
does not refer to a
.I STREAMS
special file that accepts I/O controls.
.TP
.RB [ ENODEV ]
.I fd
refers to a
.I STREAMS
special file that does not support the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.
(Under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
all
.I STREAMS
special files support the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.)
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I fd
refers to Stream that has received a hangup, that is, an
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message was received by the Stream head.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
the I/O control command cannot be performed by this particular sub-device.
.TP
.RB [ EPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe and the other end of the pipe is closed.
.TP
.RB [ ESTRPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe and a write operation was attempted with no
readers at the other end, or a read operation was attempted, the pipe is
empty, and there are no writers at the other end.
(This error is not normally returned to user level programs.)
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
refers to a Stream that is linked under a multiplexing driver.  If a Stream is
linked under a multiplexing driver, all
.BR ioctl (2s)
commands other than
.B I_UNLINK
or
.B I_PUNLINK
will return
.RB [ EINVAL ].
.TP
.RB [ ERESTARTSYS ]
a signal was received (or generated by the call) before the operation could begin.
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
a signal was received before the operation could complete.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN "]
the file is set for asynchronous I/O and the operation would block.  (A
.I STREAMS
special file is set for asynchronous I/O when
.BR open (2s)
was called with the
.B O_NDELAY
or
.B O_NONBLOCK
flags, or one these flags were subsequently set with a call to
.BR fcntl (2).)
.TP
.RB [ EWOULDBLOCK ]
See
.RB [ EAGAIN ].
(For most architectures under
.BR Linux ,
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
and
.BR [ EWOULDBLOCK ]
have the same value.)
.TP
.RB [ ETIME ]
the operation timed out awaiting an acknowledgement or response (to the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message) from the module or driver.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
a message block could not be allocated during the operation and the operation
is not permitted to block.
Under some circumstances, an
.BR ioctl (2s)
command will block awaiting the availability of message blocks, regardless of the setting of
.BR O_NDELAY " or " O_NONBLOCK .
.PP
Any error delivered to the Stream head in an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message can be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.PP
Where the command results in a call to a module or driver
.BR qopen "(9) or " qclose (9)
procedures, as is the case for
.BR I_PUSH (7),
.BR I_POP (7),
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
or
.BR I_PUNLINK (7),
an error number returned by the module or driver
.BR qopen "(9) or " qclose (9)
procedure can also be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.PP
Any error returned in an
.BR M_IOCNAK (9)
message from the module or driver in response to an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message issued for an
.BR I_STR (7),
.BR I_LINK (7),
or
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR ioctl (2s)
can be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.I STREAMS
.BR ioctl (2s)
calls are complex and there is much conflicting documentation in specific
areas of behaviour.  Not all bugs are bugs and not all features are features.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR msgb (9),
.BR read (2s),
.BR tcp (4),
.BR ioctl (3p),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B I_ATMARK
has no known bugs.
.PP
.I STREAMS
.BR ioctl (2s)
calls are complex and there is much conflicting documentation in specific
areas of behaviour.  Not all bugs are bugs and not all features are features.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B I_ATMARK
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B I_ATMARK
conforms as closely as possible to the
.I POSIX/SUSv3
specifications.
Where a specific
.IR "SVR 4.2" -based
implemntation differs from
.IR POSIX/SUSv3 ,
there will be differences with this
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications programs will expect conformance to
.IR POSIX/SUSv3 .
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
also uses the
.B MSGNEXTMARK
and
.B MSGNOTNEXTMARK
flags on the message blocks; but their use is undocumented.
.IP
Portable
.I STREAMS
module and drivers will neither set nor examine these flags.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdoc
.]
indicates that it is permissible for
.I arg
to be the inclusive OR of the
.B ANYMARK
and
.B LASTMARK
flags.
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
indicates that if both
.B ANYMARK
and
.B LASTMARK
are set,
.B ANYMARK
supersedes
.BR LASTMARK .
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
indicates that the bitwise-OR of
.B ANYMARK
and
.B LASTMARK
is allowed and that, if both are set,
.B ANYMARK
supersedes
.BR LASTMARK .
.IP \(em
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
does not permit the flags to be combined and will return
.RB [ ENINVAL ]
if they are.
.IP \(em
.I POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
does not mention combinations of
.BR ANYMARK " and " LASTMARK .
.IP \(em
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
follows this behaviour in permitting both
.BR ANYMARK " and " LASTMARK
to be set with
.BR ANYMARK " superseding " LASTMARK .
.IP
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will neither combine the
.BR ANYMARK " and " LASTMARK
flags, nor rely upon implementation behaviour when they are combined, nor rely upon
.B I_ATMARK
returning an error when they are combined.
.PP
For general
.BR ioctl (2s)
compatibility, see
.BR streamio (7).
.PP
If your
.B Linux
system is equipped with
.I OpenGroup
manual pages, see
.BR ioctl (3p)
for the equivalent
.I POSIX/SUSv3
reference page.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3,
.[
susv3
.]
POSIX.
.PP
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-streams (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ioctl (2s)
for
.I STREAMS
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
