'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: I_FDINSERT.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2006/04/05 09:43:48 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:48 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: I_FDINSERT.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:43:48  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH I_FDINSERT 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Protocols"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B I_FDINSERT
\- insert a stream identifier into a \fISTREAMS\fP message and send it downstream.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS   
.PP
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl (int " fd ", I_FDINSERT, ... /* " arg " */);"
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the file descriptor of a Stream.  This is the file descriptor that was returned from the
.BR open (2s)
or
.BR pipe (2s)
call when the Stream was created.
.TP
.I cmd
always
.BR I_FDINSERT .
.TP
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.B strfdinsert
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B I_FDINSERT
command performs similar to
.BR putmsg (2),
however, it performs the additional function of inserting the bottom read queue
pointer associated with a specified file descriptor in the resulting message.
This ioctl is often used to accepting incoming connections on
.BR tpi (7)
based protocols.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.PP
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.B strfdinsert
structure that is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct strfdinsert {
    struct strbuf ctlbuf;
    struct strbuf databuf;
    ulong flags;
    int fildes;
    int offset;
};
\s+1\fR
.fi
.\"
.TP \w'databuf\(em'u
.I ctlbuf
describes the control part of the message, and is formated the same as the
.B strbuf
structure pointed to by
.I ctlptr
as an argument to
.BR putmsg (2).
The
.I len
field of this
.B strbuf
structure must be large enough to accept the translated file descriptor, plus any additional control
information that is to be sent.
Unlike
.BR putmsg (2)
this message must contain a control part.
.\"
.TP
.I databuf
describes the data part of the message, formatted the same as the
.B strbuf
structure pointed to by
.I datptr
as an argument to
.BR putmsg (2).
Unlike
.BR putmsg (2)
if the
.I len
field of this
.B strbuf
structure is zero, it indicates that no data part is to be sent with the
message.
(This differs from
.BR putmsg (2),
where a
.I len
field of zero (0) would indicate to send a zero-length data part message.)
.\"
.TP
.I flags
provides the options flags formatted the same as the
.I flags
argument to
.BR putmsg (2).
It can take on the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'RS_HIPRI\(em'u
.B 0
The resulting message is a normal priority message.
.PD 0
.TP \w'RS_HIPRI\(em'u
.B RS_HIPRI 
The resulting message is a high priority message.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.TP
.I fildes
is the file descriptor of a stream to be translated to a read queue pointer and
placed into the control part of the message.
.\"
.TP
.I offset
is the offset into the control part to place the read queue pointer associated
with
.IR fildes .
This
.I offset
must leave sufficient room in the control part of the message to permit a
.BR t_uscalar_t
area to be overwritten without exceeding the bounds of the control part.  The
.I offset
must also specify a location in the control buffer suitably aligned for a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
.PP
When the stream head is set for
.I STREAMS
semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
.BR I_FDINSERT ,
in the same fashion as
.BR putmsg (2),
exhibits the following behaviour:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
For normal priority messages, the
.B I_FDINSERT
command blocks if the stream write queue is full due to internal flow control conditions and neither
the
.BR O_NDELAY " nor " O_NONBLOCK
flags have been set for the file descriptor,
.IR fd .
.IP \(bu
For normal priority messages, the
.B I_FDINSERT
command does not block when the write queue is full and the
.BR O_NDELAY " or " O_NONBLOCK
flag is set for the file descriptor,
.IR fd .
Instead, the command fails and sets the
.IR errno (3)
global variable to
.RB [ EAGAIN ].
.PP
When the stream head is set for
old TTY semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
.BR I_FDINSERT ,
in the same fashion as
.BR putmsg (2),
exhibits the following behaviour:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
For normal priority messages, the
.B I_FDINSERT
command blocks if the stream write queue is full due to internal flow control conditions regardless
of the setting of the
.BR O_NDELAY
file flag.
.PP
The
.B I_FDINSERT
command does not block on flow control conditions when the message is a high priority message (that
is,
.B RS_HIPRI
is set in the
.I flags
member of the
.B strfdinsert
structure).
.PP
The
.B I_FDINSERT
command also blocks, unless prevented by lack of internal resources, while it is waiting for the
availability of message blocks in the stream, regardless of the priority or whether the
.BR O_NDELAY " or " O_NONBLOCK
flag has been set on the file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
or whether the stream head is set for
.I STREAMS
or old TTY
semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY .
No partial message is sent.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success, the
.B I_FDINSERT
.BR ioctl (2s)
command returns zero
.RB ( 0 )
or a positive integer.
Upon failure, the
.B I_FDINSERT
.BR ioctl (2s)
command returns minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When the
.B I_FDINSERT
.BR ioctl (2s)
command fails, it returns minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to one of the following errors:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
A normal priority message was specified, the
.B O_NDELAY
flag is set, and the stream write queue is full due to internal flow control conditions.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
Buffers could not be allocated for the message that was to be created due to insufficient
.I STREAMS
memory resources.
.TP
.RB [ EFAULT ]
The
.I arg
argument points to an area that extends outside the caller's allocated address space, or the buffer
area specified in the
.I ctlbuf
or
.I databuf
members extend outside the caller's allocated address space.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The
.I fildes
member in the
.B strfdinsert
structure is not a valid, open
.I STREAMS
file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The size of a pointer plus the value of the
.I offset
member is greater than the
.I len
member for the buffer specified through the
.I ctlptr
member.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The
.I offset
parameter does not specify a properly aligned location in the control buffer.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
An undefined value is present in the
.I flags
member.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
A hangup was received on the
.I fd
argument to the
.BR ioctl (2s)
call, or the
.I fildes
member of the
.B strfdinsert
structure.
.TP
.RB [ ERANGE ]
The
.I len
member for the buffer specified through the
.IR databuf
member does not fall within the range specified by the maximum and minimum packet sizes of the
topmost
.I STREAMS
module or driver; or the
.I len
member for th buffer specified through the
.I databuf
member is larger than the maximum configured size of the data part of a message; or the
.I len
member for the buffer specified through the
.I ctlbuf
member is larger than the maximum configured size of the control part of a message.
.PP
The
.B I_FDINSERT
command is also unsuccessful if an error message is received containing a write error by the stream
head corresponding to the
.I fildes
member of the
.B strfdinsert
structure.
In this case,
.IR errno (3)
is set to the error number in the message.
.\".PP
.\"In general, any
.\".BR ioctl (2s)
.\"command can fail if:
.\".TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.\".RB [ EFAULT ]
.\".IR arg ", " ctlbuf ", " databuf ", " ctlbuf.buf " or " databuf.buf
.\"points outside the caller's valid address space.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ ENOSR ]
.\"a buffer for the resulting message could not be allocated.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ EINVAL ]
.\".I fildes
.\"is invalid, or
.\".I offset
.\"is invalid, or
.\".I flags
.\"is invalid.
.\".PP
.\"Any of the errors returned by
.\".BR putpmsg (2s)
.\"may be returned in
.\".IR errno (3).
.\"Any error received in an
.\".BR M_ERROR (9)
.\"message indicating a write error for the stream will be returned in
.\".IR errno (3).
.\"
.PP
In general, any
.BR ioctl (2s)
command can fail if:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EFAULT ]
.IR arg ,
or a pointer member of a structure pointed to by
.IR arg ,
points to an address that is outside the caller's valid address space.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.IR fd ", " cmd ", " arg " or a member of " arg " or a member of a structure pointed to by " arg
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
.I fd
is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSTR ]
.I fd
is not a
.I STREAMS
special file.
.TP
.RB [ EOPNOTSUPP ]
.I fd
does not support the requested operation.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
.I fd
refers to Stream that is closing.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTTY ]
.I fd
does not refer to a
.I STREAMS
special file that accepts I/O controls.
.TP
.RB [ ENODEV ]
.I fd
refers to a
.I STREAMS
special file that does not support the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.
(Under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
all
.I STREAMS
special files support the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.)
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I fd
refers to Stream that has received a hangup, that is, an
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message was received by the Stream head.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
the I/O control command cannot be performed by this particular sub-device.
.TP
.RB [ EPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe and the other end of the pipe is closed.
.TP
.RB [ ESTRPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe and a write operation was attempted with no
readers at the other end, or a read operation was attempted, the pipe is
empty, and there are no writers at the other end.
(This error is not normally returned to user level programs.)
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
refers to a Stream that is linked under a multiplexing driver.  If a Stream is
linked under a multiplexing driver, all
.BR ioctl (2s)
commands other than
.B I_UNLINK
or
.B I_PUNLINK
will return
.RB [ EINVAL ].
.TP
.RB [ ERESTARTSYS ]
a signal was received (or generated by the call) before the operation could begin.
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
a signal was received before the operation could complete.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN "]
the file is set for asynchronous I/O and the operation would block.  (A
.I STREAMS
special file is set for asynchronous I/O when
.BR open (2s)
was called with the
.B O_NDELAY
or
.B O_NONBLOCK
flags, or one these flags were subsequently set with a call to
.BR fcntl (2).)
.TP
.RB [ EWOULDBLOCK ]
See
.RB [ EAGAIN ].
(For most architectures under
.BR Linux ,
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
and
.BR [ EWOULDBLOCK ]
have the same value.)
.TP
.RB [ ETIME ]
the operation timed out awaiting an acknowledgement or response (to the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message) from the module or driver.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
a message block could not be allocated during the operation and the operation
is not permitted to block.
Under some circumstances, an
.BR ioctl (2s)
command will block awaiting the availability of message blocks, regardless of the setting of
.BR O_NDELAY " or " O_NONBLOCK .
.PP
Any error delivered to the Stream head in an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message can be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.PP
Where the command results in a call to a module or driver
.BR qopen "(9) or " qclose (9)
procedures, as is the case for
.BR I_PUSH (7),
.BR I_POP (7),
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
or
.BR I_PUNLINK (7),
an error number returned by the module or driver
.BR qopen "(9) or " qclose (9)
procedure can also be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.PP
Any error returned in an
.BR M_IOCNAK (9)
message from the module or driver in response to an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message issued for an
.BR I_STR (7),
.BR I_LINK (7),
or
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR ioctl (2s)
can be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.I STREAMS
.BR ioctl (2s)
calls are complex and there is much conflicting documentation in specific
areas of behaviour.  Not all bugs are bugs and not all features are features.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ioctl (3p),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B I_FDINSERT
has no known bugs.
.PP
.I STREAMS
.BR ioctl (2s)
calls are complex and there is much conflicting documentation in specific
areas of behaviour.  Not all bugs are bugs and not all features are features.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B I_FDINSERT
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B I_FDINSERT
conforms as closely as possible to the
.I POSIX/SUSv3
specifications.
Where a specific
.IR "SVR 4.2" -based
implemntation differs from
.IR POSIX/SUSv3 ,
there will be differences with this
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications programs will expect conformance to
.IR POSIX/SUSv3 .
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdoc
.]
documentation specifies in one place that the inserted item is a pointer that must be word-aligned,
and in another place specifies that it must be a suitably aligned
.BR t_uscalar_t .
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
documentation indicates that the stored value is a pointer and that the
.I offset
must be word-aligned.
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
documentation indicates that the stored value is a
.B t_uscalar_t
and that the alignment of
.I offset
must be suitable for a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
documentation indicates that the stored value is a pointer and that the
.I offset
must be word-aligned.
.I POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
indicates that the stored value is a
.B t_uscalar_t
and the the alignment of
.I offset
must be suitable for a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
takes the following approach to the inserted value and alignment:
.\"
.IP
The read queue pointer is always stored as a pointer cast to a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
This means that if the pointer size is 64 bits and the
.B t_uscalar_t
is 32-bits, that a truncated pointer will be placed in the message.  It is then the responsibility
of the driver to compare the truncated pointer with the full pointer for each queue truncated to 32
bits to find the appropriate full pointer.
On machines with 32-bit pointers, this is not an issue.
.\"
.IP
So, on 32-bit machines, the stored value is a pointer and it is word-aligned.
On 64-bit machines, the stored value is a
.B t_uscalar_t
and it is aligned suitably for such a type (word-aligned).
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
Portable
.B STREAMS
applications,
modules and drivers will not rely on the size of the inserted value.  This can be accomplished by
only using structures defined to include the inserted value, such as the
.BR T_conn_res (7)
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
structure.
The offset of the member in such a structure is also ensured to be properly aligned.
If the member in such a structure is too small to contain a full pointer, a mechanism, such as
.BR T_capability_req (7)
should be used to obtain a token to be used instead of a read queue pointer and
.BR putmsg (2)
or
.BR putpmsg (2s)
should be called directly.
It is the responsibility of the driver receiving the (e.g.
.BR T_conn_res (7))
message to translate the token into a pointer to a suitable read queue.  This is accomplished by
keeping all open queues in a list and traversing the list comparing the token to that of each queue
until a match is found.
.\"
.IP
So, in effect, all of the documentation is correct.  When a pointer is the same size as a
.BR t_uscalar_t ,
then a pointer can be saved in the
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Also, proper alignement for such a
.B t_uscalar_t
will be word-alignment.
Where a
.B t_uscalar_t
is too small to contain a pointer, the token method should be used in its stead and
.BR I_FDINSERT
not used.
However, when used on 64-bit architectures, the most obvious choice for token (the read queue
pointer truncated to 32-bits) is used.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdoc
.]
documentation describes in one place the
.B O_NDELAY
flag, while describing the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag in another place, and yet the behaviour is only consistent with
.B O_NONBLOCK
rather than the older
.BR O_NDELAY .
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
documentation only mentions the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag.
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
documentation describes both
.BR O_NDELAY " and " O_NONBLOCK
.BR open (2s)
flags as having the same behaviour.
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
documentation describes both
.BR O_NDELAY " and " O_NONBLOCK
.BR open (2s)
flags as having the same behaviour.
.I POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
describes only the
.B O_NONBLOCK
.BR open (2s)
flag.
None of the existing documentation describes the effect of
.B SO_NDELON
or
.B SO_NDELOFF
of the behaviour of the
.BR I_FDINSERT
command nor the
.BR putmsg (2)
or
.BR putpmsg (2s)
system calls.
The effect of
.B SO_NDELON
and
.B SO_NDELOFF
on the
.BR read (2s)
and
.BR write (2s)
system calls is described (but not in the
.BR read (2s)
or
.BR write (2s)
manpages).
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
takes the following approach to
.BR O_NDELAY
behaviour (closest to the documented
.IR AIX \(rg
behaviour):
.\"
.IP
When 
.B STRNDEL
is set on the stream head, indicating that old TTY semantics are to be used for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
setting
.B O_NDELAY
(but not
.BR O_NONBLOCK )
will result in
.B I_FDINSERT
blocking both on flow control and the availability of message buffers.  Setting
.BR O_NONBLOCK ,
regardless of the setting of
.BR O_NDELAY ,
will result in the
.I POSIX
behaviour: that is,
.B I_FDINSERT
will fail on flow control and return minus one (-1) and set
.IR errno (3)
to
.RB [ EAGAIN ];
.B I_FDINSERT
will always block on the availability of message buffers regardless of the setting of
.BR O_NDELAY ", " O_NONBLOCK " or " STRNDEL .
Unfortunately, most
.B Linux
architectures (with the sole exception of sparc) define
.BR O_NDELAY " and " O_NONBLOCK
to the same value.  This means that on most architectures, both
.BR O_NDELAY " and " O_NONBLOCK
will follow the old TTY semantics.
.\"
.IP
When
.B STRNDEL
is not set on the stream head, indicating that
.I STREAMS
semantics are to be used for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
setting
.BR O_NDELAY " or " O_NONBLOCK
will have the same effect and will follow the
.I POSIX
behaviour: that is,
.B I_FDINSERT
will fail on flow control and return minus one (-1) and set
.IR errno (3)
to
.RB [ EAGAIN ];
.B I_FDINSERT
will always block on the availability of message buffers regardless of the setting of
.BR O_NDELAY ", " O_NONBLOCK " or " STRNDEL .
.\"
.IP
Note that the only way to ensure that one obtains the older TTY semantics is to set
.B STRNDEL
on the stream head and use only the
.B O_NDELAY
open flag.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications,
modules and drivers will not rely on the old TTY semantics
.RB ( O_NDELAY " and " STRNDEL
behaviour), but will rather only use
.B O_NONBLOCK
and expect the newer
.I POSIX
behaviour.
.\"
.\"
.PP
For general
.BR ioctl (2s)
compatibility, see
.BR streamio (7).
.PP
If your
.B Linux
system is equipped with
.I OpenGroup
manual pages, see
.BR ioctl (3p)
for the equivalent
.I POSIX/SUSv3
reference page.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3,
.[
susv3
.]
POSIX.
.PP
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-streams (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ioctl (2s)
for
.I STREAMS
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
