'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: I_FLUSHBAND.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:48 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:48 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: I_FLUSHBAND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:48  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH I_FLUSHBAND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Protocols"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B I_FLUSHBAND
\- \fISTREAMS\fP input-output control
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS   
.PP
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl (int " fd ", I_FLUSHBAND, ... /* " arg " */);"
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the file descriptor of a Stream.  This is the file descriptor that was returned from the
.BR open (2s)
or
.BR pipe (2s)
call when the Stream was created.
.TP
.I cmd
always
.BR I_FLUSHBAND .
.TP
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.B bandinfo
structure defined in
.RB < sys/stropts.h >,
formatted as follows:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct bandinfo {
        unsigned char bi_pri;
        int bi_flag;
};\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIbi_flag\fR\(em'u
.I bi_pri
contains the priority band to flush; and,
.PD 0
.TP
.I bi_flag
contains the flush flags which is only of the following flags:
.PD
.RS
.TP \w'FLUSHRW\(em'u
.B FLUSHR
flush the read (upstream) queues in the Stream.
.PD 0
.TP
.B FLUSHW
flush the write (downstream) queues in the Stream.
.TP
.B FLUSHRW
flush both the read (upstream) and write (downstream) queues in the Stream.
.PD
.RE
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B I_FLUSHBAND
.BR ioctl (2s)
command flushes messages from a Stream for a given priority band.
.PP
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.B bandinfo
structure defined in
.RB < sys/stropts.h >
that contains two members:
.TP \w'\fIbi_flags\fR\(em'u
.I bi_pri
specifies the queing priority band to flush; and,
.TP
.I bi_flag
specifies which directions to flush as follows:
.RS
.TP \w'FLUSHRW\(em'u
.B FLUSHR
flush the read (upstream) queues in the Stream.
.PD 0
.TP
.B FLUSHW
flush the write (downstream) queues in the Stream.
.TP
.B FLUSHRW
flush both the read (upstream) and write (downstream) queues in the Stream.
.PD
.RE
.PP
Note that on a bare
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4),
specifying
.B FLUSHR
will flush the read queues at both ends of the pipe, instead of the upstream queues from the issuing
Stream head, and
.B FLUSHW
will flush the write queues at both ends of the pipe, instead of the downstream queues from the
issuing Stream head.
.B FLUSHRW
will still flush both the upstream and downstream queues.
This is the expected behaviour for bare
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes (that is, pipes that have no modules pushed on either end).
For the
.B I_FLUSHBAND
command to flush the proper queues in modules pushed on a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe,
.BR pipemod (4)
must be pushed onto one end of the pipe before pushing any other modules.
Pushing
.BR pipemod (4)
will also reverse the effect that
.BR FLUSHR " and " FLUSHW
have on the opposite Stream head:
.B FLUSHR
flushes the near read queue and the far write queue;
.B FLUSHW
flushes the near write queue and the far read queue;
.B FLUSHRW
is unaffected.
See
.BR pipemod (4)
for details.
.PP
Note that under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
.B I_FLUSHBAND
will block awaiting the availability of a message block to formulate the
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
message, regardless of the setting of
.BR O_NDELAY " or " O_NONBLOCK
for the Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success, the
.B I_FLUSHBAND
.BR ioctl (2s)
command returns zero
.RB ( 0 )
or a positive integer.
Upon failure, the
.B I_FLUSHBAND
.BR ioctl (2s)
command returns
.B -1
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When the
.B I_FLUSHBAND
.BR ioctl (2s)
command fails, it returns
.B -1
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to one of the following errors:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EFAULT ]
.I arg
specifies a
.B bandinfo
structure that extends outside the caller's valid address space.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I bi_flag
contains invalid flags, other than
.BR FLUSHR ", " FLUSHW " or " FLUSHRW .
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR "]
the
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
message block could not be allocated.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
See
.RB [ ENOSR ],
above.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I fd
refers to stream that has received a hangup,
.BR M_HANGUP (9).
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
.I fd
is a controlling terminal and the calling process is in a background process group and ether
blocking
.RI { SIGTTIN }
or is in an orphaned process group.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Any error received in an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message indicating a persistent read or write error for the Stream will cause
.B I_FLUSHBAND
to fail, and the read or write error will be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.PP
In general, any
.BR ioctl (2s)
command can fail if:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EFAULT ]
.IR arg ,
or a pointer member of a structure pointed to by
.IR arg ,
points to an address that is outside the caller's valid address space.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.IR fd ", " cmd ", " arg " or a member of " arg " or a member of a structure pointed to by " arg
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
.I fd
is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSTR ]
.I fd
is not a
.I STREAMS
special file.
.TP
.RB [ EOPNOTSUPP ]
.I fd
does not support the requested operation.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
.I fd
refers to Stream that is closing.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTTY ]
.I fd
does not refer to a
.I STREAMS
special file that accepts I/O controls.
.TP
.RB [ ENODEV ]
.I fd
refers to a
.I STREAMS
special file that does not support the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.
(Under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
all
.I STREAMS
special files support the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.)
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I fd
refers to Stream that has received a hangup, that is, an
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message was received by the Stream head.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
the I/O control command cannot be performed by this particular sub-device.
.TP
.RB [ EPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe and the other end of the pipe is closed.
.TP
.RB [ ESTRPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe and a write operation was attempted with no
readers at the other end, or a read operation was attempted, the pipe is
empty, and there are no writers at the other end.
(This error is not normally returned to user level programs.)
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
refers to a Stream that is linked under a multiplexing driver.  If a Stream is
linked under a multiplexing driver, all
.BR ioctl (2s)
commands other than
.B I_UNLINK
or
.B I_PUNLINK
will return
.RB [ EINVAL ].
.TP
.RB [ ERESTARTSYS ]
a signal was received (or generated by the call) before the operation could begin.
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
a signal was received before the operation could complete.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN "]
the file is set for asynchronous I/O and the operation would block.  (A
.I STREAMS
special file is set for asynchronous I/O when
.BR open (2s)
was called with the
.B O_NDELAY
or
.B O_NONBLOCK
flags, or one these flags were subsequently set with a call to
.BR fcntl (2).)
.TP
.RB [ EWOULDBLOCK ]
See
.RB [ EAGAIN ].
(For most architectures under
.BR Linux ,
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
and
.BR [ EWOULDBLOCK ]
have the same value.)
.TP
.RB [ ETIME ]
the operation timed out awaiting an acknowledgement or response (to the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message) from the module or driver.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
a message block could not be allocated during the operation and the operation
is not permitted to block.
Under some circumstances, an
.BR ioctl (2s)
command will block awaiting the availability of message blocks, regardless of the setting of
.BR O_NDELAY " or " O_NONBLOCK .
.PP
Any error delivered to the Stream head in an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message can be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.PP
Where the command results in a call to a module or driver
.BR qopen "(9) or " qclose (9)
procedures, as is the case for
.BR I_PUSH (7),
.BR I_POP (7),
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
or
.BR I_PUNLINK (7),
an error number returned by the module or driver
.BR qopen "(9) or " qclose (9)
procedure can also be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.PP
Any error returned in an
.BR M_IOCNAK (9)
message from the module or driver in response to an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message issued for an
.BR I_STR (7),
.BR I_LINK (7),
or
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR ioctl (2s)
can be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.I STREAMS
.BR ioctl (2s)
calls are complex and there is much conflicting documentation in specific
areas of behaviour.  Not all bugs are bugs and not all features are features.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ioctl (3p),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B I_FLUSHBAND
has no known bugs.
.PP
.I STREAMS
.BR ioctl (2s)
calls are complex and there is much conflicting documentation in specific
areas of behaviour.  Not all bugs are bugs and not all features are features.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B I_FLUSHBAND
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B I_FLUSHBAND
conforms as closely as possible to the
.I POSIX/SUSv3
specifications.
Where a specific
.IR "SVR 4.2" -based
implemntation differs from
.IR POSIX/SUSv3 ,
there will be differences with this
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications programs will expect conformance to
.IR POSIX/SUSv3 .
.PP
For general
.BR ioctl (2s)
compatibility, see
.BR streamio (7).
.PP
If your
.B Linux
system is equipped with
.I OpenGroup
manual pages, see
.BR ioctl (3p)
for the equivalent
.I POSIX/SUSv3
reference page.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3,
.[
susv3
.]
POSIX.
.PP
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-streams (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ioctl (2s)
for
.I STREAMS
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
