'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: I_GERROPT.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2006/07/13 12:55:44 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/07/13 12:55:44 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: I_GERROPT.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/07/13 12:55:44  brian
.\" - updated documentation for sk_buffs
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:48  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH I_GERROPT 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Protocols"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B I_GERROPT
\- \fISTREAMS\fP input-output control
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS   
.PP
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl (int " fd ", I_GERROPT, ... /* " arg " */);"
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the file descriptor of a Stream.  This is the file descriptor that was returned from the
.BR open (2s)
or
.BR pipe (2s)
call when the Stream was created.
.TP
.I cmd
always
.BR I_GERROPT .
.TP
.I arg
a pointer to an
.B int
into which to get the error options.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B I_GERROPT
.BR ioctl (2s)
command retrieves the error options for the Stream associated with
.IR fd .
.PP
The error options consist of one of the following flags:
.TP \w'\fBWERRNONPERSIST\fR\(em'u
.B RERRNORM
Read errors received in an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message are persistent.  That is, the error is returned to every
.BR read (2s)
like system call until an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message with a
.B NOERROR
value in the read (or only) position is received.
.TP
.B RERRNONPERSIST
Read errors received in an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message a non-persistent.  That is, the error is reported only once, to the first
.BR read (2s)
like system call and then is reset back to
.BR NOERROR .
.PP
logically OR'ed with one of the following flags:
.TP \w'\fBWERRNONPERSIST\fR\(em'u
.B WERRNORM
Write errors received in an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message are persistent.  That is, the error is returned to every
.BR write (2s)
like system call until an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message with a
.B NOERROR
value in the write (or only) position is received.
.TP
.B WERRNONPERSIST
Write errors received in an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message a non-persistent.  That is, the error is reported only once, to the first
.BR write (2s)
like system call and then is reset back to
.BR NOERROR .
.PP
Error options remain in effect until changed with the
.BR I_SERROPT (7)
command or by a
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message issued by a driver or module to the Stream head.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success, the
.B I_GERROPT
.BR ioctl (2s)
command returns zero
.RB ( 0 )
or a positive integer.
Upon failure, the
.B I_GERROPT
.BR ioctl (2s)
command returns
.B -1
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When the
.B I_GERROPT
.BR ioctl (2s)
command fails, it returns
.B -1
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to one of the following errors:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EFAULT ]
.I arg
points to an area that extends outside the caller's valid address space.
.PP
Note that the
.B I_GERROPT
command will not return an error if the Stream head has received an
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
or
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message.
.\"
.PP
In general, any
.BR ioctl (2s)
command can fail if:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EFAULT ]
.IR arg ,
or a pointer member of a structure pointed to by
.IR arg ,
points to an address that is outside the caller's valid address space.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.IR fd ", " cmd ", " arg " or a member of " arg " or a member of a structure pointed to by " arg
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
.I fd
is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSTR ]
.I fd
is not a
.I STREAMS
special file.
.TP
.RB [ EOPNOTSUPP ]
.I fd
does not support the requested operation.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
.I fd
refers to Stream that is closing.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTTY ]
.I fd
does not refer to a
.I STREAMS
special file that accepts I/O controls.
.TP
.RB [ ENODEV ]
.I fd
refers to a
.I STREAMS
special file that does not support the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.
(Under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
all
.I STREAMS
special files support the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.)
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I fd
refers to Stream that has received a hangup, that is, an
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message was received by the Stream head.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
the I/O control command cannot be performed by this particular sub-device.
.TP
.RB [ EPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe and the other end of the pipe is closed.
.TP
.RB [ ESTRPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe and a write operation was attempted with no
readers at the other end, or a read operation was attempted, the pipe is
empty, and there are no writers at the other end.
(This error is not normally returned to user level programs.)
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
refers to a Stream that is linked under a multiplexing driver.  If a Stream is
linked under a multiplexing driver, all
.BR ioctl (2s)
commands other than
.B I_UNLINK
or
.B I_PUNLINK
will return
.RB [ EINVAL ].
.TP
.RB [ ERESTARTSYS ]
a signal was received (or generated by the call) before the operation could begin.
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
a signal was received before the operation could complete.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN "]
the file is set for asynchronous I/O and the operation would block.  (A
.I STREAMS
special file is set for asynchronous I/O when
.BR open (2s)
was called with the
.B O_NDELAY
or
.B O_NONBLOCK
flags, or one these flags were subsequently set with a call to
.BR fcntl (2).)
.TP
.RB [ EWOULDBLOCK ]
See
.RB [ EAGAIN ].
(For most architectures under
.BR Linux ,
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
and
.BR [ EWOULDBLOCK ]
have the same value.)
.TP
.RB [ ETIME ]
the operation timed out awaiting an acknowledgement or response (to the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message) from the module or driver.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
a message block could not be allocated during the operation and the operation
is not permitted to block.
Under some circumstances, an
.BR ioctl (2s)
command will block awaiting the availability of message blocks, regardless of the setting of
.BR O_NDELAY " or " O_NONBLOCK .
.PP
Any error delivered to the Stream head in an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message can be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.PP
Where the command results in a call to a module or driver
.BR qopen "(9) or " qclose (9)
procedures, as is the case for
.BR I_PUSH (7),
.BR I_POP (7),
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
or
.BR I_PUNLINK (7),
an error number returned by the module or driver
.BR qopen "(9) or " qclose (9)
procedure can also be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.PP
Any error returned in an
.BR M_IOCNAK (9)
message from the module or driver in response to an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message issued for an
.BR I_STR (7),
.BR I_LINK (7),
or
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR ioctl (2s)
can be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.I STREAMS
.BR ioctl (2s)
calls are complex and there is much conflicting documentation in specific
areas of behaviour.  Not all bugs are bugs and not all features are features.
.PP
The
.B I_GERROPT
command is a
.IR Solaris \(rg
specific command provided to assist portability from
.IR Solaris \(rg
to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications will not use the
.B I_GERROPT
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ioctl (3p),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR errno (3),
.BR I_SERROPT (7),
.BR M_SETOPTS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B I_GERROPT
has no known bugs.
.PP
.I STREAMS
.BR ioctl (2s)
calls are complex and there is much conflicting documentation in specific
areas of behaviour.  Not all bugs are bugs and not all features are features.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B I_GERROPT
is compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B I_GERROPT
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg
specific input-output control command.  The default settings are as though the option did not exist.
Therefore, there are no portability issues in not using this command.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications will not use this input-output control command.
.PP
For general
.BR ioctl (2s)
compatibility, see
.BR streamio (7).
.PP
If your
.B Linux
system is equipped with
.I OpenGroup
manual pages, see
.BR ioctl (3p)
for the equivalent
.I POSIX/SUSv3
reference page.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3,
.[
susv3
.]
POSIX.
.PP
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-streams (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ioctl (2s)
for
.I STREAMS
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
