'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: I_LINK.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:48 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:48 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: I_LINK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:48  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH I_LINK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Protocols"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B I_LINK
\- link a Stream beneath a \fISTREAMS\fP multiplexing driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS   
.PP
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl (int " fd ", I_LINK, ... /* " arg " */);"
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the file descriptor of a Stream connected to a multiplexing driver.
.TP
.I cmd
always
.BR I_LINK .
.TP
.I arg
is the integer file descriptor of the Stream to link.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B I_LINK
.BR ioctl (2s)
command links one Stream, with file descriptor
.IR arg ,
under the multiplexing driver of another Stream, with file descriptor
.IR fd .
.PP
.I fd
is the file descriptor of a Stream connected to a multiplexing driver, that was returned from the
.BR open (2s)
system call when the multiplexing driver was opened and the Stream created.  A multiplexing driver
is a
.I STREAMS
driver that has a lower multiplexer definition.  A lower multiplexer definition exists when the
.I st_muxrinit
and
.I st_muxwinit
members of the
.BR streamtab (9)
structure defining the driver are
.RB non- NULL .
.PP
.I arg
is the file descriptor of another Stream, that was returned from the
.BR open (2s)
or
.BR pipe (2s)
system call when the Stream was created.
In general, the Stream specified by
.I arg
can be any regular Stream,
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4),
or
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR fifo (4),
but
.I arg
must be associated with a Stream.
.PP
.B I_LINK
performs a regular link of the Stream, specified by
.IR arg ,
beneath the Stream specified by
.IR fd .
Regular links are automatically dismantled whenever the control Stream,
.IR fd ,
is closed or the last reference to the Stream is otherwise relinquished.
Regular links can also be explicitly removed with a call to
.BR I_UNLINK (7).
.PP
The
.B I_LINK
operation will cause the Stream head to generate a
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message with a
.BR M_DATA (9)
block containing a
.BR linkblk (9)
structure.  This
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message is passed downstream to the multiplexing driver.  A positive
.BR M_IOCACK (9)
or negative
.BR M_IOCNAK (9)
acknowledgement is expected from the driver before the operation can complete.
.PP
The
.B I_LINK
.BR ioctl (2s)
call will block waiting to acquire exclusive access to the Streams associated with
.I fd
and
.IR arg ,
awaiting allocation of the necessary internal
.I STREAMS
.BR linkblk (9)
and
.BR syncq (9)
data structures,
awaiting the allocation of an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message to pass downstream,
and
awaiting an acknowledgement from the driver.
.PP
The
.B I_LINK
operation will fail if the call times out awaiting acknowledgement from the driver,
the call is interrupted by a signal,
or either the control Stream,
.IR fd ,
or the linked Stream,
.IR arg ,
receives a hangup
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
or an asynchronous error
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message before the call can complete.
.PP
When successful, the operation completes and a system-wide unique multiplex link indentifier is
returned.  This value can subsequently be used as an argument to an
.BR I_UNLINK (7)
operation, to unlink the linked Stream.
.PP
.I STREAMS
records the fact that this link is a regular link.  Even though the returned multiplex link identifier
is system-wide unique, a call to
.BR I_PUNLINK (7)
with a multiplex identifier returned from an
.I I_LINK
operation will fail and return
.RB [ EINVAL ].
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B I_LINK
is used to form a regular link between a multiplexing driver and another Stream.  Regular links
are associated with a control Stream (specified by
.IR fd ).
When the control Stream is closed and the last reference to the Stream relinquished, all
regularly linked Streams associated with the control Stream are released.
.PP
It is not necessary to keep a regularly linked Stream open for it to remain linked under the
control Stream.  The file descriptor
.I arg
may be closed after it is linked under the driver and the Stream will remain linked.  When the
control Stream is closed, the Stream will be unlinked and the reference to the Stream released
causing the linked Stream to be dismantled.
.PP
The control Stream itself can later be linked underneath another multiplexing driver.  In this
manner, complex trees of multiplexed Streams can be created.  However, if regular links are used
throughout, the uppermost control Stream must remain open for the configuration to be maintained.
.PP
In contrast, the
.BR I_PLINK (7)
.BR ioctl (2s)
causes a Stream to be persistently linked under a multiplexing driver.
.PP
Regular links are typically used by daemon processes.  When the daemon process starts, it forms
the multiplex, keeps the control Stream open, and sleeps waiting for an event or signal.  If the
daemon process should die or exit, the multiplex is dismantled.
.PP
In contrast, persistent links created with
.BR I_PLINK (7)
do not require the existence of a daemon process to maintain the multiplex.
See
.BR I_PLINK (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success, the
.B I_LINK
.BR ioctl (2s)
command returns a positive integer.
Upon failure, the
.B I_LINK
.BR ioctl (2s)
command returns minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.PP
When successful,
.B I_LINK
returns a positive integer representing the multiplex identifier of the linked Stream.  This value
can subsequently be used in a
.BR I_UNLINK (7)
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When the
.B I_LINK
.BR ioctl (2s)
command fails, it returns minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to one of the following errors:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EBADF ]
.I fd
does not specify a valid, open file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ ENODEV ]
.I fd
refers to a file that does not support the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSTR ]
.I fd
is not associated with a Stream.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
refer to a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4)
or
.BR fifo (4).
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
refers to a Stream connected to a driver that does not have a lower multiplex definition.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
is linked under a multiplexing driver.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
.I fd
specifies a Stream that has closed or is closing.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTTY ]
.I fd
specifies a Stream that is a controlling terminal that has closed or is closing.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I fd
received a hangup
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
.I fd
specifies a controlling terminal, the calling process is not a member of the foreground process
group and is a member of an orphaned process group, or is blocking
.RI { SIGTTIN }
signals.
.TP
.RB [ ERESTARTSYS ]
.I fd
is a controlling terminal, the calling process is a member of a background process group and is not
blocking
.RI { SIGTTIN }
or
.RI { SIGTTOU }
signals, and a
.RI { SIGTTIN }
or
.RI { SIGTTOU }
signal was sent.
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
.I arg
does not specify a valid, open file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I arg
is not associated with a Stream.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I arg
is associated with the same Stream as
.IR fd .
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I arg
specifies a Stream that is already linked under a multiplexing driver.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
.I arg
specifies a Stream that is closed or is closing.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTTY ]
.I arg
specifies a controlling terminal that is closed or is closing.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I arg
received a hangup
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
.I arg
received an error
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message containing a persistent read or write error.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
a
.BR linkblk (9)
structure could not be allocated to complete the operation.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
a synchronization queue
.BR syncq (9)
data structure could not be allocated to complete the operation.
.TP
.RB [ ERESTARTSYS ]
a signal was received (or generated by the call) before the operation could begin.
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
a signal was received before the operation could complete.
.TP
.RB [ ETIME ]
the operation timed out waiting for an acknowledgement from the driver.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
a negative acknowledgement
.BR M_IOCNAK (9)
was received from the driver with no specified error.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
the driver responded incorrectly (with a well formed
.BR M_COPYIN (9)
or
.BR M_COPYOUT (9)
message.)
.\"
.\"
.PP
Also, if
.I fd
receives an error
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message, containing a persistent read error,
.BR errno (3)
will be set to the error number in the message.
.PP
If
.I fd
receives an error
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message, containing only a persistent write error,
.BR errno (3)
will be set to the error number in the message.  If the
.B SNDPIPE
write option is set for the Stream, the calling process will also be sent a
.RI { SIGPIPE }
signal.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The operation requires that the driver send a positive
.BR M_IOCACK (9)
or negative
.BR M_IOCNAK (9)
acknowledgement.
If a negative
.BR M_IOCNAK (9)
acknowledgement message is received that contains an error,
.BR errno (3)
will be set to the error number in the message.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.I STREAMS
.BR ioctl (2s)
calls are complex and there is much conflicting documentation in specific
areas of behaviour.  Not all bugs are bugs and not all features are features.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The
.I "SVR 4.2 SPG"
.[
svr42spg
.]
indicates that
.I STREAMS
keeps track of linked Streams and detects when a loop could occur in a given multiplex arrangement,
and that
.RB [ EINVAL ]
can be returned when a possible looping configuration is detected.
.RS
.ll -7n
.PP
\(lqThe construction of cycles is not allowed when creating links.  A cycle could be constructued by
creating a persistent link of multiplexer 2 below multiplexer 1 and then closing the controlling
file descriptor associated with the multiplexer 2 and reopening it again and then linking the
multiplexer 1 below the multiplexer 2.  This is not allowed.  The operating system prevents a
multiplexer configuration from containing a cycle to ensure that messages cannot be routed
infinitely, thus creating an infinite loop or overflowing the kernel stack.\(rq
.[
svr42spg
.]
.ll +7n
.RE
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
does not detect such arrangements, because, for the most part, they can represent valid
configurations.  This is likely, however, a security issue, particularly if a looping arrangement
can be built by an unprivileged user.
.PP
Because persistent links typically require root privilege, this is not such an issue for persistent
links as it is for regular links.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
In the example shown in the listing, below, a Stream is linked underneath a multiplexing driver.
Note that when the program exists, the multiplexer is dismantled.
.PP
.RS 0
.nf
\fC\s-1\
 1 int
 2 main()
 3 {
 4     int fd_str;
 5     int fd_mux;
 6     int muxid;
 7 
 8     if ((fd_mux = open("/dev/mux/1", O_RDWR)) == -1) {
 9         perror("can't open mux");
10         exit(1);
11     }
12     if ((fd_str = open("/dev/nuls/1", O_RDWR)) == -1) {
13         perror("can't open str");
14         exit(2);
15     }
16     if ((muxid = ioctl(fd_mux, I_LINK, fd_str)) < 0) {
17         perror("can't link str");
18         exit(3);
19     }
20     sleep(10);
21     exit(0);
22 }
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
In the example shown below, a Stream is lined underneath a multiplexing driver.  In this case, the
Stream is explicitly unlinked using
.BR I_UNLINK (7)
before exiting.
.PP
.RS 0
.nf
\fC\s-1\
 1 int
 2 main()
 3 {
 4     int fd_str;
 5     int fd_mux;
 6     int muxid;
 7 
 8     if ((fd_mux = open("/dev/mux/1", O_RDWR)) == -1) {
 9         perror("can't open mux");
10         exit(1);
11     }
12     if ((fd_str = open("/dev/nuls/1", O_RDWR)) == -1) {
13         perror("can't open str");
14         exit(2);
15     }
16     if ((muxid = ioctl(fd_mux, I_LINK, fd_str)) < 0) {
17         perror("can't link str");
18         exit(3);
19     }
20     sleep(10);
21     if (ioctl(fd_mux, I_UNLINK, muxid) == -1) {
22         perror("can't unlink str");
23         exit(4);
24     }
25     sleep(10);
26     exit(0);
27 }
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR ioctl (3p),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.I STREAMS
.BR ioctl (2s)
calls are complex and there is much conflicting documentation in specific
areas of behaviour.  Not all bugs are bugs and not all features are features.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B I_LINK
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B I_LINK
conforms as closely as possible to the
.I POSIX/SUSv3
specifications.
Where a specific
.IR "SVR 4.2" -based
implementation differs from
.IR POSIX/SUSv3 ,
there will be differences with this
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications programs will expect conformance to
.IR POSIX/SUSv3 .
.IP \(em
.B I_LINK
returns a positive integer multiplexer identifier.  This identifier is derived from the address of a
.BR linkblk (9)
structure within the kernel and is not a small integer as some applications might expect.  Returning
other than a small integer is shortcut practise used by a number of
.IR "SVR 4.2" -based
implementations.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications programs will not expect a small integer multiplexer identifier, but will treat the
multiplexer identifier as opaque with only the following exception: the multiplexer identifier is
greater than zero and can be tested as such.
.IP \(em
.B I_LINK
will return a multiplexer identifier that is unique across all regular and persistent links.  Some
implementations might return a small integer multiplexer identifier that identifies the cardinal
regular link for a given control Stream.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications will treat the returned multiplexer identifier as opaque, except to test whether it is
greater than zero.
.IP \(em
.B I_LINK
use the special value,
.BR MUXID_ALL ,
of minus one
.RB ( -1 ).
.IP ""
Although all known implementations use the the value of minus one for
.BR MUXID_ALL ,
portable
.I STREAMS
application programs will not directly specify minus one, but will use the symbol
.BR MUXID_ALL
for this value.
.IP \(em
.I POSIX/SUSv3
does not specify the amount of time to wait for an acknowledgement from the driver.  Regular
.BR ioctl (2s)
defaults are
.B 15 seconds
for most implementations.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides the
.B sys.streams.ioctime
system control for controlling the default period of time to wait for any
.BR ioctl (2s),
and uses this system default for
.B I_LINK
operations.  The default setting for this system control is
.BR "15 seconds" .
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications programs will not rely on any specific setting of the wait time for acknowledgement of
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
messages for the
.B I_LINK
operation.  (It should be rare that the timeout ever occurs, anyway.)
.PP
For general
.BR ioctl (2s)
compatibility, see
.BR streamio (7).
.PP
If your
.B Linux
system is equipped with
.I OpenGroup
manual pages, see
.BR ioctl (3p)
for the equivalent
.I POSIX/SUSv3
reference page.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3,
.[
susv3
.]
POSIX.
.PP
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-streams (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ioctl (2s)
for
.I STREAMS
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
