'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: I_PUTPMSG.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-28 12:53:42 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:42 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: I_PUTPMSG.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-28 12:53:42  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/10/05 12:17:00  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:43:48  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH I_PUTPMSG 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Protocols"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B I_PUTPMSG
\- \fISTREAMS\fP putpmsg system call emulation
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS   
.PP
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl (int " fd ", I_PUTPMSG, ... /* " arg " */);"
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the file descriptor of a Stream.  This is the file descriptor that was returned from the
.BR open (2s)
or
.BR pipe (2s)
call when the Stream was created.
.TP
.I cmd
always
.BR I_PUTPMSG .
.TP
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.B strpmsg
structure formatted as follows:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct strpmsg {
    struct strbuf ctlbuf;
    struct strbuf databuf;
    int band;
    int flags;          /* actually long for Mac OT */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I ctlbuf
a
.B strbuf
structure representing the control part, containing the following members:
.RS
.TP \w'\fImaxlen\fR\(em'u
.I maxlen
the size of the user buffer;
.PD 0
.TP
.I len
on return, the number of bytes copied into the user buffer; and,
.TP
.I buf
a pointer to the user buffer.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I databuf
a
.B strbuf
structure representing the data part, containing the following members:
.RS
.TP \w'\fImaxlen\fR\(em'u
.I maxlen
the size of the user buffer;
.PD 0
.TP
.I len
on return, the number of bytes copied into the user buffer; and,
.TP
.I buf
a pointer to the user buffer.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I band
an integer band number specifying the band of the message to send on call, and returning the
band of the sent message on return.
.TP
.I flags
integer flags specifying which messages to send on call, and returning the priority of the
sent message on return.
.I flags
can be one of the following for
.BR putmsg (2)
emulation:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBMSG_HIPRI\fR\(em'u
.B 0
.PD 0
send a normal message (sent message was normal priority); or,
.TP
.B RS_HIPRI
send a high priority messages (sent message was high priority).
.PD
.PP
or one of the following for
.BR putpmsg (2s)
emulation:
.TP \w'\fBMSG_HIPRI\fR\(em'u
.\".B MSG_ANY
.\".PD 0
.\"retrieve any message (not set on return);
.\".TP
.B MSG_BAND
send a normal priority messages with the priority band equal to
.I band
(sent message was a normal priority message with priority band
.IR band );
.TP
.B MSG_HIPRI
send a high priority message (sent message was high priority).
.PD
.RE
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B I_PUTPMSG
provides an
.BR ioctl (2s)
emulation of the
.BR putmsg (2)
and
.BR putpmsg (2s)
system calls.
.B I_PUTPMSG
is emulated in this way due to the
.B Linux
kernel's failure to provide any means to implement standard system calls.
.PP
Under the emulation,
.I fd
is the same as the
.I fd
argument to
.BR putmsg (2)
or
.BR putpmsg 92s);
.I arg
points to a structure containing the remaining arguments for
.BR putmsg (2)
and
.BR putpmsg (2s).
.I cmd
is always
.BR I_PUTPMSG .
.PP
See
.BR putmsg (2)
and
.BR putpmsg (2s)
for the purpose and function of the arguments.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B I_PUTPMSG
input-ouput control is not intended to be invoked directly with the
.BR ioctl (2s)
interface by the user, but rather via the
.BR putmsg (2)
and
.BR putpmsg (2s)
library calls.
.PP
See
.BR putmsg (2)
and
.BR putpmsg (2s)
for details ont he operation of the the system call this
.BR ioctl (2s)
emulates, and usage information.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success, the
.B I_PUTPMSG
.BR ioctl (2s)
command returns zero
.RB ( 0 );
upon failure, minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When the
.B I_PUTPMSG
.BR ioctl (2s)
command fails, it returns minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to one of the following errors:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
The stream head is set for non-blocking operation and
.BR putpmsg ()
would block: that is, the message is being sent with
.I flags
set to
.B MSG_BAND
and the corresponding
.I band
is flow controlled.
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor, or
refers to a stream that is not open for writing.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSTR ]
.i fd
does not refer to a stream.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.i fd
refers to a stream that is currently linked underneath a
.I STREAMS
multiplexing driver.  All read or write systems calls will fail with error
number
.RB [ EINVAL ]
for such a stream.
.TP
.RB [ EFAULT ]
.IR ctlptr ", " datptr ", " ctlptr->buf " or " datptr->buf
point outside the caller's address space.
.TP
.RB [ ERESTARTSYS ]
A signal arrived before the operation could begin.
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
A signal arrived before the operation could complete.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The values of
.IR band " or " flags ,
or the combination of
.IR ctlptr ", " datptr ", and the values of " band " and " flags
were invalid,
such as when
.I flags
is specified as
.B MSG_HIPRI
and
.I band
is non-zero.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
refers to a stream that is linked under a
.I STREAMS
multiplexing driver.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
I/O error, or,
.I fd
refers to a stream that is open but is in the process of closing.
.TP
.RB [ EPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a pipe and the other end of the pipe is closed.
.TP
.RB [ ESTRPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.I STREAMS
based pipe and there are no readers at the other end of
the pipe.
.TP
.RB [ EISDIR ]
.I fd
refers to a directory.
.TP
.RB [ ENODEV ]
.I fd
refers to a device that does not support the
.BR putpmsg ()
system call.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
.I STREAMS
resources were insufficient to complete the operation.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSTR ]
.I fd
refers to a device that has no stream associated with it.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
A
.B M_HANGUP
message arrived at the stream head for the specified
.IR fd .
.TP
.RB [ ERANGE ]
The
.I len
of the data part of the message is outside the range
.I q_minpsz
to
.I q_maxpsz
inclusive for the topmost
.I STREAMS
module or driver under the stream head, or,
the
.I len
of the control or data part is larger than the maximum sized control or data
message for the
.I STREAMS
subsystem.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSYS ]
The
.BR putpmsg ()
system call is not supported on your system.  The occurs when
.I STREAMS
is not
loaded or you have linked the wrong library.
.PP
Other errors may be returned by
.BR putpmsg ().
If the protocol module sends an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message to the stream head, the error returned on all subsequent write
operations, including
.BR putpmsg (),
is specified in the
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message by the protocol module.  Which errors are returned under what
conditions form part of the necessary documentation of the protocol module.
.\"
.PP
In general, any
.BR ioctl (2s)
command can fail if:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EFAULT ]
.IR arg ,
or a pointer member of a structure pointed to by
.IR arg ,
points to an address that is outside the caller's valid address space.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.IR fd ", " cmd ", " arg " or a member of " arg " or a member of a structure pointed to by " arg
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
.I fd
is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSTR ]
.I fd
is not a
.I STREAMS
special file.
.TP
.RB [ EOPNOTSUPP ]
.I fd
does not support the requested operation.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
.I fd
refers to Stream that is closing.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTTY ]
.I fd
does not refer to a
.I STREAMS
special file that accepts I/O controls.
.TP
.RB [ ENODEV ]
.I fd
refers to a
.I STREAMS
special file that does not support the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.
(Under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
all
.I STREAMS
special files support the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.)
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I fd
refers to Stream that has received a hangup, that is, an
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message was received by the Stream head.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
the I/O control command cannot be performed by this particular sub-device.
.TP
.RB [ EPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe and the other end of the pipe is closed.
.TP
.RB [ ESTRPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe and a write operation was attempted with no
readers at the other end, or a read operation was attempted, the pipe is
empty, and there are no writers at the other end.
(This error is not normally returned to user level programs.)
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
refers to a Stream that is linked under a multiplexing driver.  If a Stream is
linked under a multiplexing driver, all
.BR ioctl (2s)
commands other than
.B I_UNLINK
or
.B I_PUNLINK
will return
.RB [ EINVAL ].
.TP
.RB [ ERESTARTSYS ]
a signal was received (or generated by the call) before the operation could begin.
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
a signal was received before the operation could complete.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN "]
the file is set for asynchronous I/O and the operation would block.  (A
.I STREAMS
special file is set for asynchronous I/O when
.BR open (2s)
was called with the
.B O_NDELAY
or
.B O_NONBLOCK
flags, or one these flags were subsequently set with a call to
.BR fcntl (2).)
.TP
.RB [ EWOULDBLOCK ]
See
.RB [ EAGAIN ].
(For most architectures under
.BR Linux ,
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
and
.BR [ EWOULDBLOCK ]
have the same value.)
.TP
.RB [ ETIME ]
the operation timed out awaiting an acknowledgement or response (to the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message) from the module or driver.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
a message block could not be allocated during the operation and the operation
is not permitted to block.
Under some circumstances, an
.BR ioctl (2s)
command will block awaiting the availability of message blocks, regardless of the setting of
.BR O_NDELAY " or " O_NONBLOCK .
.PP
Any error delivered to the Stream head in an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message can be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.PP
Where the command results in a call to a module or driver
.BR qopen "(9) or " qclose (9)
procedures, as is the case for
.BR I_PUSH (7),
.BR I_POP (7),
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
or
.BR I_PUNLINK (7),
an error number returned by the module or driver
.BR qopen "(9) or " qclose (9)
procedure can also be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.PP
Any error returned in an
.BR M_IOCNAK (9)
message from the module or driver in response to an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message issued for an
.BR I_STR (7),
.BR I_LINK (7),
or
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR ioctl (2s)
can be returned in
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.I STREAMS
.BR ioctl (2s)
calls are complex and there is much conflicting documentation in specific
areas of behaviour.  Not all bugs are bugs and not all features are features.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ioctl (3p),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B I_PUTPMSG
has no known bugs.
.PP
.I STREAMS
.BR ioctl (2s)
calls are complex and there is much conflicting documentation in specific
areas of behaviour.  Not all bugs are bugs and not all features are features.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B I_PUTPMSG
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B I_PUTPMSG
conforms as closely as possible to the
.I POSIX/SUSv3
specifications.
Where a specific
.IR "SVR 4.2" -based
implemntation differs from
.IR POSIX/SUSv3 ,
there will be differences with this
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications programs will expect conformance to
.IR POSIX/SUSv3 .
.PP
For general
.BR ioctl (2s)
compatibility, see
.BR streamio (7).
.PP
If your
.B Linux
system is equipped with
.I OpenGroup
manual pages, see
.BR ioctl (3p)
for the equivalent
.I POSIX/SUSv3
reference page.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3,
.[
susv3
.]
POSIX.
.PP
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-streams (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ioctl (2s)
for
.I STREAMS
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
