'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_CONN_RES.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/03/01 02:44:06 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:06 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH N_CONN_RES 7 "$Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:06 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS"
.SH NAME
.BR N_CONN_RES " (" N_conn_res_t )
\- network connection response
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive allows the destination NS user to request that the network
provider accepta previous connect request.
.SH SYNOPSYS
.PP
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
blocks (for NS user data).  The specification of the NS user data is optional.
.PP
The NS user can send any integral number of octets of data within the range
supported bythe NS provider.
.PP
The structure of the M_PROTO block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;		/* always N_CONN_RES */
    ulong TOKEN_value;		/* NC response token value */
    ulong RES_length;		/* responding address length */
    ulong RES_offset;		/* responding address offset */
    ulong SEQ_number;		/* sequence number */
    ulong CONN_flags;		/* bit masking for options flags */
    ulong QOS_length;		/* QOS parameters' length */
    ulong QOS_offset;		/* QOS parameters' offset */
} N_conn_res_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH
.PP
PARAMETERS
.TP
.I PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

.TP
.I TOKEN_value
Is used to identify the stream that the NS user wants to establishthe NC on.
(Its value is determined by the NS user by issuing a
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive with the
.B TOKEN_REQUEST
flag set.  The token value is returned in the
.BR N_BIND_ACK(7)).
The value of this field should be non-zero when the NS user wants toestablish
the NC on a stream other than the stream on which the
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)
arrived.  If the NS user wants to establish a NC on the same stream that the
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)
arrived on, then the value of this field should be zero.

.TP
.I RES_length
Indicates the length of the responding address parameter thatconveys the
network address of the NS user to which the NC has been established.  Under
certain circumstances, such as call redirection, generic addressing, etc.,
the value of this parameter may be different from the destination address
parameter specification in the corresponding
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7).

.TP
.I RES_offset
Indicates the offset of the responding address from the beginningof the
.B M_PROTO
message block.

.TP
.I SEQ_number
Indicates the sequence number of the
.B N_CONN_RES
message.  It is used by the NS provider to associate the
.B N_CONN_RES
message with an outstanding
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)
message.  An invalid sequence number should result in error with the message
type
.BR NBADSEQ .

.TP
.I CONN_flags;
.RS

.TP
.B REC_CONF_OPT
The receipt confirmation selection parameter indicates the use/availability of
the receipt confirmation service on the NC.  The receiptconfirmation service
must be provided in the network service to be used on the NC.

.TP
.B EX_DATA_OPT
The expedited data selection parameter indicates the use/availability of the
expedited data transfer service on the NC.  The expedited data transferservice
must be provided by the NS provider for it to be used on the NC.
.RE

.TP
.I QOS_length
Indicates the length of the QOS parameters values that arenegotiated during NC
establishment.  If the NS user does not agree to the QOS values, it will reject
the NC establishment byinvoking a
.BR N_DISCON_REQ (7)
primitive (the originator parameter in the
.BR N_DISCON_REQ (7)
primitive will indicate NS user invoked release).  If the NS user cannot
determine the value of a QOS parameter, its value should be set to
.BR QOS_UNKNOWN .
If the NS user does not specify any QOS parameter values, the length of this
field should be set to zero.

.TP
.I QOS_offset
Indicates the offset of the QOS parameters from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.SH STATE
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.BR NS_WRES_CIND .
.SH "NEW STATE"
.PP
The new state is
.BR NS_WACK_CRES .
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
The NS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgments upon
receipt of this primitive:
.HP
.B Successful:
Successful completion is indicated via the
.BR N_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.
.HP
.B Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors)
Errors are indicated via the
.B N_ERROR_ACK
primitive.
.SH ERROS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as follows:
.TP
.RB [ NBADOPT ]
The options were in an incorrect format, or they contained illegal information.
.TP
.RB [ NBADQOSPARAM ]
The QOS parameter values specified are outside the rangesupported by the NS provider.
.TP
.RB [ NBADQOSTYPE ]
The QOS structure type is not supported by the NS provider.
.TP
.RB [ NBADTOKEN ]
The token specified is not associated with an open stream.
.TP
.RB [ NACCESS ]
The user did not have proper permissions for the use of theoptions of the options or response id.
.TP
.RB [ NOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ NBADDATA ]
The amount of user data specified was outside the rangesupported by the NS provider.
.TP
.RB [ NBADSEQ ]
The sequence number specified in the primitive wasincorrect or illegal.
.TP
.RB [ NSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error isindicated in the primitive.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi
.]
.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR4.
.[
svr4
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
