'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_INFO_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2004/05/30 09:40:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/05/30 09:40:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH N_INFO_ACK 7 "$Date: 2004/05/30 09:40:54 $" "$Name:  $" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.SH NAME
.B N_INFO_ACK, N_info_ack_t
\- network information acknowledgement
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the NS user any relevant protocol-dependent
parameters.  (Note: In the future, this primitive will be modified such that
it will allow the NPI to accept either sub-network point of attachment
addresses or network addresses.) It should be initiated in response to the
.BR N_INFO_REQ (7)
primitive.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of this message is one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block and its structure is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;            /* always N_INFO_ACK */
    ulong NSDU_size;            /* maximum NSDU size */
    ulong ENSDU_size;           /* maximum ENSDU size */
    ulong CDATA_size;           /* connect data size */
    ulong DDATA_size;           /* discon data size */
    ulong ADDR_size;            /* address size */
    ulong ADDR_length;          /* address length */
    ulong ADDR_offset;          /* address offset */
    ulong QOS_length;           /* length of default QOS values */
    ulong QOS_offset;           /* offset of default QOS values 
                                   from the beginning of block */
    ulong QOS_range_length;     /* length of range of QOS
                                   values */
    ulong QOS_range_offset;     /* offset of range of QOS
                                   values from the beginning of 
                                   block */
    ulong OPTIONS_flags;        /* bit masking for options
                                   supported */
    ulong NIDU_size;            /* network interface data unit
                                   size */
    long SERV_type;             /* service type */
    ulong CURRENT_state;        /* current state */
    ulong PROVIDER_type;        /* type of provider */
    ulong NODU_size;            /* optimal NSDU size */
    ulong PROTOID_length;       /* length of bound protocol ids 
                                 */
    ulong PROTOID_offset;       /* offset of bound protocol ids 
                                 */
    ulong NPI_version;          /* version number of NPI that's 
                                   supported */
} N_info_ack_t;

/* Flags to indicate support of NS provider options */
#define REC_CONF_OPT    0x00000001L
#define EX_DATA_OPT     0x00000002L
#define DEFAULT_RC_SEL  0x00000004L

/* Service types supported by the NS provider */
#define N_CONS      1
#define N_CLNS      2

/* Valid provider types */
#define N_SNICFP    1
#define N_SUBNET    2
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
The above fields have the following meaning:
.TP
.I PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

.TP
.I NSDU_size
Specifies the maximum size (in octets) of a Network Service Data Unit (NSDU)
supported by the NS provider.

.TP
.I ENSDU_size
Specifies the maximum size (in octets) of an Expedited Network Service Data
Unit (ENSDU) supported by the NS provider.

.TP
.I CDATA_size
Specifies the maximum number of octets of data that may be associated with
connection establishment primitives.

.TP
.I DDATA_size
Specifies the maximum number of octets of data that may be associated with the
disconnect primitives.

.TP
.I ADDR_size
Specifies the maximum size (in decimal digits) of a network address.

.TP
.I ADDR_length
Specifies the length in bytes of the network address bound on the
.I STREAM
on which the
.BR N_INFO_REQ (7)
was issued (a network address is bound to a
.I STREAM
via a
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7)).

.TP
.I ADDR_offset
Specifies the offset of the bound network address from the beginning of the
.B M_PCPROTO
message block (this field should be ignored if the
.I ADDR_length
field is zero).

.TP
.I QOS_length
in an addendum to this document.  In the connection-mode environment, when this
primitive is invoked before the NC is established on the stream, the values
returned specify the default values supported by the NS provider.  When this
primitive is invoked after a NC has been established on the stream, the values
returned indicate the negotiated values for the QOS parameters.  In the
connection-less environment, these values represent the default or the
selected QOS parameter values.  In case a QOS parameter is not supported by the
NS Provider, a value of
.B QOS_UNKNOWN
will be returned.  In the case where no QOS parameters are supported by the NS
provider, this field will be zero.

.TP
.I QOS_offset
Indicates the offset of the QOS parameters from the beginning of the
.B M_PCPROTO
message block.

.TP
.I QOS_range_length
Indicates the length in bytes, of the available range of QOS parameters
values supported by the NS provider.  These ranges are used by the NS user to
select QOS parameter values that are valid with the NS provider.  QOS parameter
values are selected, or the default values altered via the
.BR N_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive.  In the connection-mode environment, the values for end-to-end QOS
parameters may be specified with
the
.B N_CONN
primitives for negotiation.  If the NS provider does not support a certain QOS
parameter, its value will be set to
.BR QOS_UNKNOWN .
In the case where no QOS parameters are supported by the NS provider, the
length of this field will be zero.

.TP
.I QOS_range_offset
Indicates the offset of the range of QOS parameter values from the beginning of
the
.B M_PCPROTO
message block.

.TP
.I OPTIONS_flags
Defines flags that indicate whether the options described below are supported
by the NS provider.  The possible options are receipt confirmation, expedited
data and default selection for use of receipt confirmation.
.RS

.TP
.B REC_CONF_OPT
When set, it indicates that the NS provider supports receipt confirmation.
This flag is used only in the connection-mode environment.

.TP
.B EX_DATA_OPT
When set, it indicates that the NS provider supports expedited data transfer.
This flag is used only in the connection-mode environment.

.TP
.B DEFAULT_RC_SEL
When set, it indicates that the default selection is for the use of receipt
confirmation for every
.BR N_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive (This parameter is applicable only when use of receipt confirmation
is successfully negotiated via the
.B N_CONN
primitives).  This flag is used only in the connection-mode environment.
.RE

.TP
.I NIDU_size
This indicates the amount of user data that may be present in a
.B N_DATA
primitive.  The
.I NIDU_size
should not be larger than the NSDU_size specification.

.TP
.I SERV_type
Specifies the service type supported by the NS provider.  The possible values
can be
.BR N_CONS ,
.BR N_CLNS ,
(or both as indicated by using
.BR N_CONS|N_CLNS ).
.RS

.TP
.B N_CONS
When set, it indicates that the NS provider supports connection-mode
network services.

.TP
.B N_CLNS
When set, it indicates that the NS provider supports connection-less network
services.
.RE

.TP
.I CURRENT_state
This indicates the current state of the NS provider.

.TP
.I PROVIDER_type
This indicates the type of NS provider.  The possible values can be
.B N_SNICFP
or
.BR N_SUBNET .
The value
.B N_SNICFP
indicates that the provider is the Subnetwork Independent Convergence
Function/Protocol sub-layer of the network layer.  The value
.B N_SUBNET
indicates that the provider is a subnetwork.

.TP
.I NODU_size
This specifies the optimal NSDU size (in octets) of an NSDU given the current
routing information.

.TP
.I PROTOID_length
This specifies the length of the protocol ids that were bound using the
.BR N_BIND_REQ .

.TP
.I PROTOID_offset
This specifies the offset of the protocol ids that were bound using the
.BR N_BIND_REQ .

.TP
.I NPI_version
This indicates the current version of NPI that is supported.
.SH STATE
This primitive is valid in any state in response to a
.BR N_INFO_REQ (7)
primitive.
SH "NEW STATE"
The state remains the same.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
