'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_UNITDATA_IND.7,v 0.9.2.1 2004/02/29 19:07:16 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/02/29 19:07:16 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH N_UNITDATA_IND 7 "$Date: 2004/02/29 19:07:16 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS"
.SH NAME
.BR N_UNITDATA_IND " (" N_unitdata_ind_t )
\- unit data indication
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the NS user that a datagram has been received from
the specified source address.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of the message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
blocks containing at least one byte of data.  The format of the
.B M_PROTO
is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;            /* always N_UNITDATA_IND */
    ulong DEST_length;          /* destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;          /* destination address offset */
    ulong SRC_length;           /* source address length */
    ulong SRC_offset;           /* source address offset */
    ulong ERROR_type;           /* specifies the reason for the 
                                   error */
} N_unitdata_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

.TP
.I DEST_length
Indicates the length of the destination address.  The address is the same as in
the corresponding
.BR N_UNITDATA_REQ (7)
primitive.

.TP
.I DEST_offset
Indicates the offset of the destination address from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.

.TP
.I SRC_length
Indicates the length of the source network address.  This address is the same
as the value associated with the stream on which the
.BR N_UNITDATA_REQ (7) was issued.

.TP
.I SRC_offset
Indicates the offset of the source address from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.

.TP
.I ERROR_type
Specifies the reason for the error.  The possible values are:
.RS

.TP
.B N_UD_CONGESTION
This packet experienced congestion during its delivery.
.RE
.SH STATES
This primitive is valid in state
.BR NS_IDLE .
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state remains unchanged.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi
.]
.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR4.
.[
svr4
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
