'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_CONN_CON.7,v 0.9.2.1 2004/02/29 19:07:16 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/02/29 19:07:16 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH T_CONN_CON 7 "$Date: 2004/02/29 19:07:16 $" "$Name:  $" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_CONN_CON
\- Connection Confirm
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by zero or more
.B M_DATA
blocks if any user data is associated with the primitive.  The
format of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_conn_con {
    t_scalar_t   PRIM_type;      /* Always T_CONN_CON         */
    t_scalar_t   RES_length;     /* Responding address length */
    t_scalar_t   RES_offset;
    t_scalar_t   OPT_length;
    t_scalar_t   OPT_offset;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the user that a connect request has been
confirmed on the specified responding address.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
.TP
.I RES_length
is the length of the responding address that the connection was accepted.
.TP
.I RES_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block) where the
responding address begins. 
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the confirmed options associated with the primitive.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block) of the
confirmed options associated with the primitive. 
.PP
The proper alignment of the responding address and options in the
.B M_PROTO
message block is not guaranteed. 
.SH MODES
Only connection-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_CONN_REQ (7).
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
