'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_DATA_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/03/01 02:44:07 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:07 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH T_DATA_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:07 $" "$Name:  $" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_DATA_REQ
\- Data Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by zero or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks where each
.B M_DATA
message block contains zero or
more bytes of data.  The format of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_data_req {
    t_scalar_t   PRIM_type;      /* Always T_DATA_REQ */
    t_scalar_t   MORE_flag;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the transport provider that this message contains
a transport interface data unit.  One or more transport interface data units
form a transport service data unit (TSDU).
.PP
Note that the maximum transport service data unit size allowed by the
transport provider is indicated to the transport user via the
.BR T_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive.
.PP
This primitive has a mechanism which indicates the beginning and end of a
transport service data unit.  However, not all transport providers support the
concept of a transport service data unit.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
.TP
.I MORE_flag
when greater than zero, indicates that the next
.B T_DATA_REQ
primitive is also part of this transport service data unit.
.SH RULES
The transport provider must also recognize a message of one or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks without the leading
.B M_PROTO
message block as a
.B T_DATA_REQ
primitive.  This message type will be initiated from the
.BR write (2)
operating system service routine.
.PP
For example, on systems that support the
.BR tirdwr (4)
STREAMS module, if that module
is pushed onto a stream corresponding to a transport provider supporting the
.BR TPI ,
then the
.BR write (2)
operating system service routine may be used to send data on that transport
endpoint.  In this case there are no implied transport service data unit
boundaries.  Data is passed down the stream as a series of
.B M_DATA
messages.
.PP
This primitive does not require any acknowledgments, although it may generate
a fatal error.  This is indicated via a
.B M_ERROR
message type which results in the failure of all operating system service
routines on the stream. 
.SH ERRORS
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ EPROTO ]
This indicates one of the following unrecoverable protocol conditions:
.RS
.IP - 3
The transport service interface was found to be in an incorrect state.  If the
interface is in the
.B TS_IDLE
state when the provider receives the
.B T_DATA_REQ
primitive, then the transport provider should just drop the message without
generating a fatal error.
.IP -
The amount of transport user data associated with the primitive defines a
transport service data unit larger than that allowed by the transport
provider.
.SH MODES
Only connection-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\".BR T_DATA_REQ (7),
.BR T_DATA_IND (7),
.BR T_EXDATA_REQ (7),
.BR T_EXDATA_IND (7),
.BR T_OPTDATA_REQ (7),
.BR T_OPTDATA_IND (7).
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
