'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_DISCON_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/03/01 02:44:07 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:07 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH T_DISCON_IND 7 "$Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:07 $" "$Name:  $" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_DISCON_IND
\- Disconnect Indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of a
.B M_PROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_discon_ind {
    t_scalar_t   PRIM_type;      /* Always T_DISCON_IND */
    t_scalar_t   DISCON_reason;
    t_scalar_t   SEQ_number;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the user that either a request for connection has
been denied or an existing connection has been disconnected.  The format of
this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block possibly followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks if there is any user data associated with the primitive.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type
.TP
.I DISCON_reason
is the reason for disconnect.  The reason codes are protocol specific.
.TP
.I SEQ_number
is the sequence number which identifies which connect indication was denied,
or it is -1 if the provider is disconnecting an existing connection.
.TP
.I RULES
The
.I SEQ_number
is only meaningful when this primitive is sent to a passive user who has the
corresponding connect indication outstanding.  It allows the transport user to
identify which of its outstanding connect indications is associated with the
disconnect.
.SH MODES
Only connection-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH T_CONN_REQ (7),
.SH T_DISCON_REQ (7),
.SH T_ORDREL_REQ (7),
.SH T_ORDREL_IND (7).
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
