'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_DISCON_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/05/14 07:59:57 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:57 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH T_DISCON_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:57 $" "$Name:  $" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_DISCON_REQ
\- Disconnect Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks if there is any user data specified by the transport
user.  The format of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_discon_req {
    t_scalar_t   PRIM_type;      /* Always T_DISCON_REQ */
    t_scalar_t   SEQ_number;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive requests that the transport provider deny a request for
connection, or disconnect an existing connection.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
.TP
.I SEQ_number
identifies the outstanding connect indication that is to be denied.  If
the disconnect request is disconnecting an already existing connection, then
the value of
.I SEQ_number
will be ignored.
.SH RULES
This primitive requires the transport provider to generate the following
acknowledgment on receipt of the primitive, and the transport user must
wait for the acknowledgment before issuing any other primitives:
.SS Successful
Correct acknowledgment of the primitive is indicated via the
.BR T_OK_ACK (7)
primitive described in reference TPI-SMD. 
.SS Non-fatal errors
These errors will be indicated via the
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive described in
reference TPI-SMD.
.SH ERRORS
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ TBADDATA ]
The amount of user data specified was invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TBADSEQ ]
The sequence number specified in the primitive was incorrect or invalid.
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
This primitive is not supported by the transport provider.
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The primitive would place the transport interface out of state.
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in
the primitive.
.SH MODES
Only connection-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_DISCON_IND (7),
.BR T_CONN_IND (7),
.BR T_ORDREL_REQ (7),
.BR T_ORDREL_IND (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
