'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_OPTMGMT_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/03/01 02:44:07 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:07 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH T_OPTMGMT_ACK 7 "$Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:07 $" "$Name:  $" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME 
.B T_OPTMGMT_ACK
\- Option Management Acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of a
.B M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_optmgmt_ack {
    t_scalar_t   PRIM_type;      /* Always T_OPTMGMT_ACK */
    t_scalar_t   OPT_length;
    t_scalar_t   OPT_offset;
    t_scalar_t   MGMT_flags;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This indicates to the transport user that the options management request has
completed.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
indicates the primitive type
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the protocol options associated with the primitive
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PCPROTO
block where the options begin.
.PP
The proper alignment of the options is not guaranteed.  MGMT_flags should be
the same as those specified in the
.BR T_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive with any additional flags as specified below.
.SH RULES
The following rules apply to the
.B T_OPTMGMT_ACK
primitive.:
.IP - 3
If the value of
.I MGMT_flags
in the
.BR T_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive is
.BR T_DEFAULT ,
the provider should return the default provider options without changing the
existing options associated with the stream.
.IP -
If the value of
.I MGMT_flags
in the
.BR T_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive is
.BR T_CHECK ,
the provider should return the options as specified in the
.BR T_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive along with the additional flags
.BR T_SUCCESS " or " T_FAILURE
which indicate to the user whether the specified options are supportable
by the provider.  The provider should not change any existing options
associated with the stream.
.IP -
If the value of
.I MGMT_flags
in the
.BR T_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive is
.BR T_NEGOTIATE ,
the provider should set and negotiate the option as specified by the following
rules:
.RS
.IP - 3
If the
.I OPT_length
field of the
.BR T_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive is 0, then the transport provider is to set and return the default
options associated with the stream in the
.B T_OPTMGMT_ACK
primitive.
.IP -
If options are specified in the
.BR T_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive, then the transport provider should negotiate those options,
set the negotiated options and return the negotiated options in the
.B T_OPTMGMT_ACK
primitive.  It is the user's responsibility to check the negotiated options
returned in the
.B T_OPTMGMT_ACK
primitive and take appropriate action.
.RE
.IP - 3
If the value of
.I MGMT_flags
in the
.BR T_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive is
.BR T_CURRENT ,
the provider should return the currently effective option values without
changing any existing options associated with the stream.
.SH ERRORS
If the above rules result in an error condition, the transport provider
must issue a
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive to the transport user specifying the error as defined in the
description of the
.BR T_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive. 
.SH MODES
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_OPTMGMT_REQ (7).
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
