@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo nocin nosi tw=100
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: descrip.texi,v 0.9.2.3 2007/01/03 14:18:06 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/01/03 14:18:06 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} (@file{@value{PACKAGE}}) is an @cite{OpenSS7 Project} implementation of
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP - RFC 2960) for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  It is based
on the same protocol engine core as the OpenSS7 Linux Native (Sockets) version of OpenSS7 SCTP.
The package provides a STREAMS SCTP driver for use with SIGTRAN components of the OpenSS7 stack.

This package is a separate release of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package that was formerly
present in the @file{strss7} package.  The networking driver, @manpage{sctp(4)}, is provided, as
well as NPI, TPI and XTI header files for SCTP operation.  The package contains the necessary manual
pages and other documentation for SCTP components in a separate autoconf tarball.  This release is
also part of the OpenSS7 Master Package (@file{openss7-@value{VERSION_OPENSS7}}).

The package currently includes the following @dfn{STREAMS} kernel modules and drivers:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_sctp.ko} @file{/dev/sctp_n} @file{/dev/sctp_t}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_tpiperf.ko} @dfn{tpiperf}
@end multitable

@table @manref
@item sctp(4)
The @manpage{sctp(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} driver is the primary @dfn{STREAMS} pseudo-device driver that
implements the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) described in RFC 2960 and RFC 4460.

@item tpiperf(4)
The @manpage{tpiperf(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} module contians the TPI performance test module.  This
@dfn{STREAMS} module is primarily for performance testing of the TPI interface of the
@manpage{sctp(4)} driver.

@end table

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package includes kernel modules, @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS}
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and development environment for the
development and execution of @cite{Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)} protocol stack
components and applications for the @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} environment.
	
This distribution is only currently applicable to @cite{Linux} 2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted
at @cite{ix86}, @cite{x86_64}, @cite{ppc} and @cite{ppc64} architectures, but should build and
install for other architectures as well.

