% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: strsctp.texi,v 0.9.2.17 2006/08/23 11:00:49 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (C) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
% Copyright (C) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2006/08/23 11:00:49 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================

\input texinfo
@setfilename strsctp.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}

@dircategory STREAMS
@direntry
* OpenSS7 SCTP: (@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}).	An Open STREAMS SCTP implementation.
@end direntry

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file provides the @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of the
@cite{@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2006  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results,
provided the printed document carries copying permission notice identical to
this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this paragraph not being
relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the above conditions for modified versions.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual

@ignore
@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@end ignore
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <@uref{http://www.openss7.com/}> @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> @*
All Rights Reserved. @*

@noindent
Published by OpenSS7 Corporation @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
This is texinfo edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
documentation, and is consistent with @value{PACKAGE_NAME} @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}.
This manual was developed under the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7
Project} and was funded in part by
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation}.

@noindent
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the same conditions as for modified versions.

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@page

@c Define an index of authors.
@defindex au

@c Define an index of makefile targets
@defcodeindex mk

@c Define an index of configure output variables.
@c @defcodeindex ov

@c Define an index of configure variables.
@c @defcodeindex cv

@c Define an index of options.
@defcodeindex op

@c Define an index of targets.
@c @defcodeindex tr

@c Define an index of commands.
@c @defcodeindex cm

@c Put the macros and variables into their own index.
@c @syncodeindex fn cp
@c @syncodeindex ov vr
@c @syncodeindex cv vr
@c @syncodeindex fn vr

@c Put everything else into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the concept index).
@c @syncodeindex op cp
@c @syncodeindex tr cp
@c @syncodeindex cm cp

@c An index of manual pages
@defcodeindex mp

@include texi/macros.texi

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@unnumbered About This Manual
This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of @cite{The
@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Acknowledgements::		Sponsors and Contributors
* Preface::			Preface to this document
* Introduction::		Introduction to the package
* Objective::			Objective of the package
* Reference::			Contents of the package
* Conformance::			Conformance of the package
* Releases::			Releases of the package
* Installation::		Installation of the package
* Troubleshooting::		Troubleshooting of the package

* GPL::				GNU General Public License
* LGPL::			GNU Lesser General Public License
* FDL::				GNU Free Documentation License

* Indices::			Index of Indices

 ----- detailed node listing -----

Acknowledgements

* Sponsors::			Sponsors of the package
* Contributors::		People who contributed to the development of
				the package.
Introduction

* Notice::			Notice
* Overview::			Overview
* Organization::		Organization
* Conventions::			Conventions

Reference

* Files::			Files included in the package
* Drivers::			Drivers included in the package
* Modules::			Modules included in the package
* Utilities::			Utilities
* Development::			Development against the package

Conformance

Releases

* Prerequisites::		Prerequisite packages
* Compatibility::		Compatibility Issues
* Release Notes::		Release Notes
* Maturity::			Package Maturity
* Bugs::			Package Defects
* Schedule::			Development and Bug Fix Schedule
* History::			Project History

Installation

* Downloading::			Downloading the package
* Configuration::		Configuration of the package
* Building::			Building the package
* Installing::			Installing the package
* Removal::			Removal of the package
* Loading::			Loading the package

Troubleshooting

* Test Suites::			Test Suites for the package
* Problem Reports::		Problem Reports for the package
* Known Bugs::			Known Bugs in the package

Indices

* Concept Index::		Index of Concepts
* Type Index::			Index of Data Types
* Function Index::		Index of Functions and Macros
* Variable Index::		Index of Variables and Constants
* File Index::			Index of Files and Programs
* Option Index::		Index of Configuration Options
* Makefile Target Index::	Index of Makefile Targets
* Author Index::		Index of Authors
* Manual Page Index::		Index of Manual Pages
@end menu

@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Acknowledgements
@unnumbered Acknowledgements
@cindex credits

@include texi/funding.texi

@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@section Document Information
@cindex document information

@subsection Notice
@cindex document notice
@cindex licensing

This package is released and distributed under the @cite{GNU General Public License} (@pxref{GPL}).
Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for the manual pages and some of the
documentation (derived from OpenGroup@footnote{Formerly X/Open and UNIX International.} publications
and other sources).  Consult the permission notices contained in the documentation for more
information.

This document, is released under the @cite{GNU Free Documentation License} (@pxref{FDL}) with all
sections invariant.

@subsection Abstract
@cindex document abstract

This document provides a @cite{@value{MANUAL_TYPE}} for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

@subsection Objective
@cindex document objective

The objective of this document is to provide a guide for the @dfn{STREAMS} programmer when
developing @dfn{STREAMS} modules, drivers and application programs for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

This guide provides information to developers on the use of the @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism at user and
kernel levels.

@dfn{STREAMS} was incorporated in UNIX System V Release 3 to augment the character input/output
(I/O) mechanism and to support development of communication services.

@dfn{STREAMS} provides developers with integral functions, a set of utility routines, and facilities
that expedite software design and implementation.

@subsection Intent
@cindex document intent

The intent of this document is to act as an introductory guide to the @dfn{STREAMS} programmer.  It
is intended to be read alone and is not intended to replace or supplement the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} manual pages.  For a reference for writing code, the manual pages
(see @manref{STREAMS(9)}) provide a better reference to the programmer.
Although this describes the features of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package,
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any software,
system or feature listed herein.

@subsection Audience
@cindex document audience

This document is intended for a highly technical audience.  The reader should already be familiar
with @cite{Linux} kernel programming, the @cite{Linux} file system, character devices, driver input
and output, interrupts, software interrupt handling, scheduling, process contexts, multiprocessor
locks, etc.

The guide is intended for network and systems programmers, who use the @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism at
user and kernel levels for @cite{Linux} and @cite{UNIX} system communication services.

Readers of the guide are expected to possess prior knowledge of the @cite{Linux} and @cite{UNIX}
system, programming, networking, and data communication.

@subsection Revisions
@cindex document revisions

Take care that you are working with a current version of this document: you will not be notified of
updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current version, contact the
@uref{mailto:bidulock@@openss7.org,Author}, or check @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,The OpenSS7
Project} website for a current version.

A current version of this document is normally distributed with the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package.

@subsubsection Version Control

@smallexample

$Log: strsctp.texi,v $
Revision 0.9.2.17  2006/08/23 11:00:49  brian
- added preface, corrections and updates for release

Revision 0.9.2.16  2006/08/22 12:57:30  brian
- updated documentation

Revision 0.9.2.15  2006/03/22 10:02:06  brian
- added makefile target index

Revision 0.9.2.14  2006/03/03 11:46:59  brian
- 32/64-bit compatibility

Revision 0.9.2.13  2005/07/08 13:16:18  brian
- updates to documentation

Revision 0.9.2.12  2005/06/24 13:38:59  brian
- added troubleshooting section to manuals

Revision 0.9.2.11  2005/05/14 08:29:14  brian
- copyright header correction

Revision 0.9.2.10  2005/04/12 09:29:02  brian
- corrections

Revision 0.9.2.9  2005/04/11 20:48:41  brian
- documentation updates and corrections

Revision 0.9.2.8  2005/03/15 00:56:48  brian
- Updated version numbering in texinfo files.

Revision 0.9.2.7  2005/03/15 00:51:45  brian
- Updated version numbering in texinfo files.

Revision 0.9.2.6  2005/02/17 20:00:22  brian
- Fixes for texi documentation.

Revision 0.9.2.5  2005/01/24 11:57:58  brian
- Updated texinfo headers.

Revision 0.9.2.4  2004/12/19 15:15:17  brian
- Corrected include position.

Revision 0.9.2.3  2004/08/22 04:42:03  brian
- Converted to common files.

Revision 0.9.2.2  2004/08/21 11:04:32  brian
- Checking in merge on new branch.

Revision 0.9.2.1  2004/08/21 10:53:55  brian
- Force checkin on branch.

Revision 1.4  2004/08/20 21:14:14  brian
- Updated documentation.

Revision 1.3  2004/08/18 10:30:54  brian
- Documentation embelleshments.

Revision 1.2  2004/08/16 11:42:45  brian
- Documentation updates.

Revision 0.9  2004/06/20 20:35:34  brian
branches:  0.9.2;
- Working up separate sctp release.


@end smallexample

@subsubsection ISO 9000 Compliance

Only the @TeX{}, texinfo, or roff source for this document is controlled.  An opaque (printed,
postscript or portable document format) version of this document is an @strong{UNCONTROLLED
VERSION}.

@subsection Disclaimer
@cindex document disclaimer

@noindent
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all
implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title;
that the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} be liable for any direct, indirect, special or
consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with
any use of this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.

@noindent
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any
reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies,
utilization of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the
design of any techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  @cite{OpenSS7
Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@subsubsection U.S. Government Restricted Rights

If you are licensing this Software on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it is
classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to
the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government is
acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights customarily provided to
non-Government users).  If the Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other
than DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights in the
Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any
successor regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to
the FAR (or any successor regulations).

@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@cindex introduction

This manual documents the design, implementation, installation, operation and future development
schedule of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Notice::			Notice
* Overview::			Overview
* Organization::		Organization
* Conventions::			Conventions
@end menu

@node Notice
@section Notice
@cindex notice
@cindex licensing

Note that previous releases of the @samp{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}} package were intended to provide
additional support to GCOM release of LiS and were released primarily in Tar Ball format.  As of
@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2-1 this is no longer the case.  @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2-1 and
subsequent releases are intended to be loaded on top of an OpenSS7 release of Linux Fast-STREAMS.
If you wish to use these packages over a GCOM release of LiS, you will now need to also download and
install the @file{strcompat}, @file{strxns} and @file{strxnet} package from Tar Ball.

This package is released and distributed under the @cite{GNU General Public License} (@pxref{GPL}).
Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for the manual pages and some of the
documentation (derived from X/Open publications and other sources).  Consult the permission notices
contained in the documentation for more information.

This manual is released under the @cite{GNU Free Documentation License} (@pxref{FDL}) with all
sections invariant.

@node Overview
@section Overview
@cindex overview

This manual documents the design, implementation, installation, operation and future development of
the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package is
an implementation of the Stream Transmission Control Protocol (SCTP) for Linux as described in RFC 2960 and subsequent RFCs,
that can be used with
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}@footnote{@xref{Top, Linux Fast-STREAMS, About This Manual, STREAMS, Linux Fast-STREAMS (LfS) Reference Manual}.}
or
@cite{Linux STREAMS}@footnote{@xref{Top, Linux STREAMS (LiS), About This Manual, LiS, Linux STREAMS (LiS) Reference Manual}.}.
It includes development tools, header files and manual pages for
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}.

@node Organization
@section Organization of this Manual
@cindex organization

This manual is organized (loosely) into several sections as follows:

@ifnottex
@menu
  Introduction::		This introduction
* Objective::			Objective of the package
* Reference::			Contents of the package
* Conformance::			Conformance of the package
* Releases::			Releases of the package
* Installation::		Installation of the package
* Troubleshooting::		Troubleshooting of the package
@end menu
@end ifnottex
@ifnotinfo
@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @ref{Introduction}.
@tab This introduction
@item @ref{Objective}.
@tab Objective of the package
@item @ref{Reference}.
@tab Contents of the package
@item @ref{Conformance}.
@tab Conformance of the package
@item @ref{Releases}.
@tab Releases of the package
@item @ref{Installation}.
@tab Installation of the package
@item @ref{Troubleshooting}.
@tab Troubleshooting of the package
@end multitable
@end ifnotinfo
@ifplaintext
@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @ref{Introduction}.
@tab This introduction
@item @ref{Objective}.
@tab Objective of the package
@item @ref{Reference}.
@tab Contents of the package
@item @ref{Conformance}.
@tab Conformance of the package
@item @ref{Releases}.
@tab Releases of the package
@item @ref{Installation}.
@tab Installation of the package
@item @ref{Troubleshooting}.
@tab Troubleshooting of the package
@end multitable
@end ifplaintext

@node Conventions
@section Conventions and Definitions
@cindex conventions
@cindex definitions

This manual uses @cite{texinfo} typographic conventions.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Objective
@chapter Objective
@cindex objective

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Reference
@chapter Reference
@cindex reference

@menu
* Files::			Files included in the package
* Drivers::			Drivers included in the package
* Modules::			Modules included in the package
* Libraries::			Libraries included in the package
* Utilities::			Utilities included in the package
* Development::			Development against the package
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Files
@section Files
@cindex headers

@include tree.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Drivers
@section Drivers
@cindex drivers

The @samp{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}} package
builds and installs the following @cite{STREAMS} drivers:

@table @file
@item streams-sctp
@pgindex streams-sctp
This is the primary @cite{STREAMS} psuedo-device driver that implements the Stream Control
Tramission Protocol (SCTP) described in RFC 2960 and RFC 4460.
@end table


@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Modules
@section Modules
@cindex modules

The @samp{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}} package
builds and installs the following @cite{STREAMS} modules:

@table @file
@item streams-tpiperf
@pgindex streams-tpiperf
This @cite{STREAMS} module is primarily for performance testing of the TPI interface of the
@file{streams-sctp} driver.@footnote{Because this modules does not depend upon SCTP and can be used
for performance testing of any TPI driver, this module will later be moved into the @samp{strxnet}
package and may no longer be present in the current version of @samp{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}}.}
@end table

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Utilities
@section Utilities
@cindex utilities

The @samp{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}} package
builds and installs the following utilities:

@table @command
@item @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}_mknod
This is a C-language program that can be used by startup scripts to create device nodes for the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}} package.  This utility is normally installed in the @file{/usr/sbin}
directory.
See @manref{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}_mknod(8)} for more information.
@item @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}
This is a @cite{RedHat}-style System V init script that is installed and used to start and stop the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}} package.  Starting consists of creating SCTP device nodes using
@command{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}_mknod} and installing the @file{streams-sctp} and
@file{streams-tpiperf} modules in the running kernel.  This init script is normally installed in the
@file{/etc/init.d} directory.
@item @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}.sh
This is a @cite{Debian}-style System V init script that is installed and used to start and stop the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}} package in a similar fashion to the @command{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}}
script, but in the @cite{Debian} style.  This init script is normally installed in the
@file{/etc/rc.d/init.d} directory.
@end table

The @samp{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}} package
builds and installs the following test programs:

@table @command
@item test-etsi_n
@pgindex test-etsi_n
This test program normally installs in directory @file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}}.
For more information on the @command{test-etsi_n} test program, see @manref{test-etsi_n(8)}.
@item test-etsi_t
@pgindex test-etsi_t
This test program normally installs in directory @file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}}.
For more information on the @command{test-etsi_t} test program, see @manref{test-etsi_t(8)}.
@item test-sctp
@pgindex test-sctp
This test program normally installs in directory @file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}}.
For more information on the @command{test-sctp} test program, see @manref{test-sctp(8)}.
@item test-sctp_n
@pgindex test-sctp_n
This test program normally installs in directory @file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}}.
For more information on the @command{test-sctp_n} test program, see @manref{test-sctp_n(8)}.
@item test-sctp_n2
@pgindex test-sctp_n2
This test program normally installs in directory @file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}}.
For more information on the @command{test-sctp_n2} test program, see @manref{test-sctp_n2(8)}.
@item test-sctp_t
@pgindex test-sctp_t
This test program normally installs in directory @file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}}.
For more information on the @command{test-sctp_t} test program, see @manref{test-sctp_t(8)}.
@item test-interop
@pgindex test-interop
@file{test-interop} is similar to @file{test-sctp_t}; however, the program has been modified to
permit just the initiating or responding side of the test case to be executed so that it can be run
against other implementations.  This test program was used in the 2006 SCTP Interop at the
University of British Columbia in July/August 2006.  This program is provided for historical
purposes.

This test program normally installs in directory @file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}}.
For more information on the @command{test-interop} test program, see @manref{test-interop(8)}.
@item testsuite
@pgindex testsuite
When executed, this @command{bash} script executes test cases from the above test programs to form a
complete testsuite of the SCTP implementation.

This test script normally installs in directory @file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}}.
@item test-sctp_nc
@pgindex test-sctp_nc
This test program normally installs in directory @file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}}.
For more information on the @command{test-sctp_nc} test program, see @manref{test-sctp_nc(8)}.
@item test-sctp_ns
@pgindex test-sctp_ns
This test program normally installs in directory @file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}}.
For more information on the @command{test-sctp_ns} test program, see @manref{test-sctp_ns(8)}.
@end table

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Development
@section Development
@cindex developing

To assist in the development of user programs and @cite{STREAMS} driver or modules using the Stream
Control Tramsmission Control (SCTP) protocol module, the following manual pages are provided:

@table @manref
@item npi_sctp(7)
The @manref{npi_sctp(7)} manual page describes the differences between the generic Network
Provider Interface (NPI) specification and the options and primitive formats specific to the Stream
Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP).
@item tpi_sctp(7)
The @manref{tpi_sctp(7)} manual page describes the differences between the generic Transport
Provider Interface (TPI) specification and the options and primitive formats specific to the Stream
Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP).
@item xti_sctp(3)
The @manref{xti_sctp(3)} manual page describes the differences between the generic X/Open Transport
Interface/Transport Layer Interface (XTI/TLI) interface and the options and formats specific to the
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP).
@item sctp(4)
Provides an overview of the Streams Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) driver.
@item sctp_n(4)
Provides an overview description of the Network Provider Interface (NPI) service interface to the
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) driver.
@item sctp_t(4)
Provides an overview description of the Transport Provider Interface (TPI) service interface to the
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) driver.
@item strsctp_mknod(8)
Provides a description of the @manref{strsctp_mknod(8)} command.
@item test-sctp(8)
Provides a description of the @manref{test-sctp(8)} test program.
This manual pages documents all of the options a operation of the @command{test-sctp} program but
does not delve into the test cases themselves.  Descriptions of the test cases can be printed using
the @samp{--list} option to @command{test-sctp}.  See the program source for detailed information on
specific test cases.
@item test-sctp_n(8)
Provides a description of the @manref{test-sctp_n(8)} test program.
This manual pages documents all of the options a operation of the @command{test-sctp_n} program but
does not delve into the test cases themselves.  Descriptions of the test cases can be printed using
the @samp{--list} option to @command{test-sctp_n}.  See the program source for detailed information on
specific test cases.
@item test-sctp_nc(8)
Provides a description of the @manref{test-sctp_nc(8)} test program.
This manual pages documents all of the options a operation of the @command{test-sctp_nc} program but
does not delve into the test cases themselves.  Descriptions of the test cases can be printed using
the @samp{--list} option to @command{test-sctp_nc}.  See the program source for detailed information on
specific test cases.
@item test-sctp_ns(8)
Provides a description of the @manref{test-sctp_ns(8)} test program.
This manual pages documents all of the options a operation of the @command{test-sctp_ns} program but
does not delve into the test cases themselves.  Descriptions of the test cases can be printed using
the @samp{--list} option to @command{test-sctp_ns}.  See the program source for detailed information on
specific test cases.
@item test-sctp_t(8)
Provides a description of the @manref{test-sctp_t(8)} test program.
This manual pages documents all of the options a operation of the @command{test-sctp_t} program but
does not delve into the test cases themselves.  Descriptions of the test cases can be printed using
the @samp{--list} option to @command{test-sctp_t}.  See the program source for detailed information on
specific test cases.
@item test-etsi_n(8)
Provides a description of the @manref{test-etsi_n(8)} test program.
This manual pages documents all of the options a operation of the @command{test-etsi_n} program but
does not delve into the test cases themselves.  Descriptions of the test cases can be printed using
the @samp{--list} option to @command{test-etsi_n}.  See the program source for detailed information on
specific test cases.
@item test-etsi_t(8)
Provides a description of the @manref{test-etsi_t(8)} test program.
This manual pages documents all of the options a operation of the @command{test-etsi_t} program but
does not delve into the test cases themselves.  Descriptions of the test cases can be printed using
the @samp{--list} option to @command{test-etsi_t}.  See the program source for detailed information on
specific test cases.
@end table

To assist in the development of user programs and @cite{STREAMS} driver or modules using the Stream
Control Tramsmission Control (SCTP) protocol module, the following header files are provided:

@table @header
@item sys/npi_sctp.h
The @header{sys/npi_sctp.h} header file provides the Network Provider Interface (NPI) definitions for
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) that are common to the kernel and user space programs.
Include this file in kernel or user space programs immediatetly after including @header{sys/npi.h}.

This header file is normally installed in the @file{/usr/include/strsctp} directory, so remember to
add @samp{-I/usr/include/strsctp} to your compile line.
@item sys/tpi_sctp.h
The @header{sys/npi_sctp.h} header file provides the Transport Provider Interface (TPI) definitions for
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) that are common to the kernel and user space programs.
Include this file in kernel space programs immediately after including @header{sys/tihdr.h}, or user
space programs immediatetly after including @header{sys/tiuser.h}.

This header file is normally installed in the @file{/usr/include/strsctp} directory, so remember to
add @samp{-I/usr/include/strsctp} to your compile line.
@item sys/xti_sctp.h
The @header{sys/xti_sctp.h} header file provides the X/Open Transport Interface/Transport Layer
Interface (XTI/TLI) definitions for Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) that are common to
the kernel and user space programs.  Include this file in kernel or user space programs immediately
after including @header{xti.h} or @header{sys/xti.h}.

This header file is normally installed in the @file{/usr/include/strsctp} directory, so remember to
add @samp{-I/usr/include/strsctp} to your compile line.
@end table

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Conformance
@chapter Conformance
@cindex conformance

Although @cite{OpenSS7 Project} software is of high quality, and untested behaviour is often correct
behaviour, the principle of the @cite{OpenSS7 Project} is to test all functional requirements
against the behaviour of the package in a repeatable validation test suite that can be used to
perform regression, target architecture validation and trouble shooting, (@pxref{Maturity}, and
@pxref{Test Suites}).

@menu
* NPI Interface Conformance::	    Conformance to the NPI.
* TPI Interface Conformance::	    Conformance to the TPI.
@end menu

@node NPI Interface Conformance
@section NPI Interface Conformance
@cindex NPI interface conformance

The Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) driver conforms to the @cite{Network Provider
Interface (NPI) Revision 2.0.0} as released by @cite{UNIX International}.  A copy of the original
document is available from @uref{http://www.openss7.org/docs/npi.pdf, The OpenSS7
Project Website}.
A reprint of the document specifying this version of the protocol is available as part of the
@samp{strxns} package available online in @uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/npi.pdf,
PDF format}, or also in simple @uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/npi.html, HTML
format}.

@node TPI Interface Conformance
@section TPI Interface Conformance
@cindex TPI interface conformance

The Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) driver conforms to the @cite{Transport Provider
Interface (TPI) Revision 2.0.0} as released by @cite{UNIX International}.  A copy of the original
document is available from @uref{http://www.openss7.org/docs/tpi.pdf, The OpenSS7
Project Website}.
A reprint of the document specifying this version of the protocol is available as part of the
@samp{strxnet} package available online in @uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/tpi.pdf,
PDF format}, or also in simple @uref{http://www.openss7.org/specs/tpi.html, HTML
format}.

@node XTI Interface Conformance
@section XTI Interface Conformance
@cindex XTI interface conformance

The Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) driver conforms to the @cite{X/Open Transport
Interface/Transport Layer Interface (XTI/TLI) X/Open Networking Services (XNS) Revision 5.2} as
released by @cite{The OpenGroup}.  A copy of the original document is available from
@uref{http://www.opengroup.org/, The OpenGroup website}.
Reprints of the document are not available from The OpenSS7 Project website due to copyright
restrictions.  Similar information is available in the manual pages that accompany the
@samp{strxnet} package.  These can be viewed online starting at
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/man2html?3+xti, XTI/TLI manpage}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Releases
@chapter Releases
@cindex releases

@include releases.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Installation
@chapter Installation
@cindex installation

@include texi/install.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Troubleshooting
@chapter Troubleshooting
@cindex troubleshooting

@include texi/testsuite.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node GPL
@appendix GPL
@cindex license GPL

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@include texi/gpl.texi

@node LGPL
@appendix LGPL
@cindex license LGPL

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@include texi/lesser.texi

@node FDL
@appendix FDL
@cindex license FDL

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@include texi/fdl.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Indices
@unnumbered Indices
@cindex indices

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Concept Index::		Index of Concepts
* Type Index::			Index of Data Types
* Function Index::		Index of Functions and Macros
* Variable Index::		Index of Variables and Constants
* File Index::			Index of Files and Programs
* Option Index::		Index of Configuration Options
* Author Index::		Index of Authors
* Makefile Target Index::	Index of Makefile Targets
* Manual Page Index::		Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Concept Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Concepts
@printindex cp

@page
@node Type Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Data Types
@printindex tp

@page
@node Function Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Functions and Macros
@printindex fn

@page
@node Variable Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Variables and Constants
@printindex vr

@page
@node File Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Files and Programs
@printindex pg

@page
@node Option Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Configuration Options
@printindex op

@page
@node Makefile Target Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Makefile Targets
@printindex mk

@page
@node Author Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Authors
@printindex au

@page
@node Manual Page Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@printindex mp

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye

@c ============================================================================
