@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: todo.texi,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-28 23:13:22 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 23:13:22 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@subsubheading Current Plan

This package is mature and complete and in production release.  The current plan is to provide only
maintenance releases supporting more recent Linux distributions, kernels and tool chains as they
evolve.  Expect public maintenance releases on a 3 to 6 month cycle.

This package will not be maintained for use with LiS.  LiS support is deprecated and has been
discontinued (but still exists on the CVS archive for sponsors of the OpenSS7 Project).  Use Linux
Fast-STREAMS instead, please.

@subsubheading Things to Do

@itemize @minus

@item
The strsctp package is quite stable and mature as of strsctp-0.9.2.2 and most of the things that
remain to be done are rigorous conformance and performance testing.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Move the tpiperf(4) module to the strxnet package and rename it tiperf(4).

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Implement pseudo-connectionless modes in sctp(4) driver.  Document use of pseudo-connectionless
modes for SCTP.  Pseudo-connectionless modes permit a connection-oriented (T_COTS) provider such as
sctp_t(4) to provide the appearance of connectionless service.  This makes support for the SCTP
one-to-many model easier.  Also, it provides a way (t_sndudata(3), t_sndvudata(3), t_rcvudata(3),
t_rcvvudata(3)) of passing options associated with the packet to the provider either in a T_OPTDATA
or in a T_UNITDATA.  This would make support of SCTP's many per-packet options more workable for XTI
as well as providing an easier translation between the sockets API and XTI API for sctp.

Note that this is also very applicable to SCTP protocol classes 2 and 3 and BSSAP.

Perhaps the first proper step for this is to rewrite t_sndudata(3), t_sndvudate(3), t_rcvudata(3),
and t_rcvvudata(3) handle T_OPTDATA_REQ(7) and T_OPTDATA_IND(7) primitives when in T_COTS mode.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Work recent SCTP I-G changes into the code.  Many of the I-G changes over the years have been
implemented in the code, however, some of the more recent changes that made it into RFC 4460 have
not yet been added.  This is an ongoing process.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Writing new IP-packet-level conformance test suites.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
It would also be an idea to make the STREAMS SCTP Driver able to be pushed as a module over a
STREAMS-based pipe end so that Ferry-Clip conformance testing could be performed.  In fact,
Ferry-Clip testing might be better and more flexible than IP-packet-level testing because it is
possible to closely control the timing of arriving packets on a STREAMS-based pipe.  In fact, this
is such a good idea, I think that I will proceed along the Ferry-Clip lines for testing first and
only perform the IP packet-level testing later.

@emph{*todo*}

@end itemize

@itemize @bullet

@item
Retest performance using the OpenSS7 Modified Netperf package.

@table @emph
@item *done*

Performance testing on loopback using the @file{netperf} package has been completed.  A performance
results paper is included in the distribution.
@end table

@item
Perform profiling and use the hot text techniques from Linux Fast-STREAMS to make the package run
even faster.

@table @emph
@item *done*

Common performance profiling and text sections have been incorporated into the code as a part of
performance testing.
@end table

@item
SCTP Interoperability testing.  Take the STREAMS package to the SCTP Interop tests at UBC and
perform interoperability testing.

@table @emph
@item *done*
  
Tested perfect against all functional implementations present.  Passed 720 Mbps compiled with no
optimizations and debugging assertions turned on.  Still have to go through the logs and collect
warnings and investigate them.  Still have to complete optimized performance testing.
@end table

@item
Testing and Validation using existing test suites.

@table @emph
@item *done*

Full regression performed.
@end table

@item
Complete documentation.  Particularly the npi_sctp(7) and tpi_sctp(7) manual pages.  The xti_sctp
manual page is fairly complete but needs updating in several places where there are gaps.

@table @emph
@item *done*

npi_sctp(7) manual page heavily updated and now complete.
tpi_sctp(7) close to complete, a few options undocumented.
xti_sctp(3) quite complete, a few options undocumented in a few sections.
@end table

@end itemize

