@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: tree.texi,v 0.9.2.7 2007/01/08 16:24:25 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/01/08 16:24:25 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c $Log: tree.texi,v $
@c Revision 0.9.2.7  2007/01/08 16:24:25  brian
@c - final updates for release
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.6  2007/01/05 06:25:06  brian
@c - doc updates
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.5  2007/01/03 14:18:06  brian
@c - updated documentation for release
@c
@c =========================================================================

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} creates the following kernel modules files in the kernel modules
directory, @file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-}:@footnote{The kernel version
@samp{@value{_kversion}} is just and example.  For the running kernel, @samp{uname -r} is expected.}

@table @file
@item modules.@value{PACKAGE_LCNAME}
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following kernel module files in the kernel modules
directory, @file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:@footnote{The kernel
version @samp{@value{_kversion}} is just and example.  For the running kernel, @samp{uname -r} is
expected.}

@table @file
@item streams_sctp.ko
This kernel module contains the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) driver.
@item streams_tpiperf.ko
This kernel module contains the Transport Provider Interface (TPI) performance test module.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following header files in the system include directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-include/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:

@table @header
@item sys/npi_sctp.h
This file contains Network Provider Interface (NPI) definitions for Stream Control Transmission
Protocol (SCTP).
@item sys/tpi_sctp.h
This file contains Transport Provider Interface (TPI) definitions for Stream Control Transmission
Protocol (SCTP).
@item sys/xti_sctp.h
This file contains X/Open Transport Interface/Transport Layer Interface (XTI/TLI) definitions for
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP).
@item sys/@value{PACKAGE}/version.h
This file contains kernel and system tailoring information for the @samp{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
kernel modules.
@item @value{_kversion}/i686/sys/@value{PACKAGE}/modversions.h
This file contains module and symbol version information for the @samp{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} kernel
modules.  This file is only applicable to @cite{Linux} kernels in the 2.4 series.
@footnote{The kernel version @value{_kversion} is just for example.}
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following test programs in the system libexec directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-libexec/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:@footnote{Note that on some systems,
@file{/usr/libexec} does not exist, and @file{/usr/lib} is used instead.}

@table @file
@item send-pr
@itemx send-pr.config
The @command{send-pr} stand-alone shell script can be used for the automatic generation of problem
reports for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  The @file{send-pr.config} file provides
localized definitions used by the @command{send-pr} program.
For more information on problem reports, @xref{Problem Reports}, and, in particular, @xref{Stand
Alone Problem Reports}.
@item test-sctp
This binary from a C-language program contains a test program for the SCTP driver.
For more information on @command{test-sctp} see the corresponding manual page: @manref{test-sctp(8)}.
Test programs are normally invoked on a test case by test case basis by the validation test suite,
@command{testsuite}.
@item test-sctp_n
This binary from a C-language program contains a test program for the SCTP driver.
This particular test program tests the historical Network Provider Interface (NPI) to the Stream
Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) driver: @file{streams-sctp}.
For more information on @command{test-sctp_n} see the corresponding manual page: @manref{test-sctp_n(8)}.
Test programs are normally invoked on a test case by test case basis by the validation test suite,
@command{testsuite}.
@item test-sctp_n2
This binary from a C-language program contains a test program for the SCTP driver.
This particular test program tests the neo-classical Network Provider Interface (NPI) to the Stream
Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) driver: @file{streams-sctp}.
For more information on @command{test-sctp_n2} see the corresponding manual page: @manref{test-sctp_n2(8)}.
Test programs are normally invoked on a test case by test case basis by the validation test suite,
@command{testsuite}.
@item test-sctp_nc
This binary from a C-language program contains a test program for the SCTP driver.
For more information on @command{test-sctp_nc} see the corresponding manual page: @manref{test-sctp_nc(8)}.
Test programs are normally invoked on a test case by test case basis by the validation test suite,
@command{testsuite}.
@item test-sctp_ns
This binary from a C-language program contains a test program for the SCTP driver.
For more information on @command{test-sctp_ns} see the corresponding manual page: @manref{test-sctp_ns(8)}.
Test programs are normally invoked on a test case by test case basis by the validation test suite,
@command{testsuite}.
@item test-sctp_t
This binary from a C-language program contains a test program for the SCTP driver.
This particular test program tests the neo-classical Transport Provider Interface (TPI) to the Stream
Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) driver: @file{streams-sctp}.
For more information on @command{test-sctp_t} see the corresponding manual page: @manref{test-sctp_t(8)}.
Test programs are normally invoked on a test case by test case basis by the validation test suite,
@command{testsuite}.
@item test-etsi_n
This binary from a C-language program contains a test program for the SCTP driver.
For more information on @command{test-etsi_n} see the corresponding manual page: @manref{test-etsi_n(8)}.
Test programs are normally invoked on a test case by test case basis by the validation test suite,
@command{testsuite}.
@item test-etsi_t
This binary from a C-language program contains a test program for the SCTP driver.
For more information on @command{test-etsi_t} see the corresponding manual page: @manref{test-etsi_t(8)}.
Test programs are normally invoked on a test case by test case basis by the validation test suite,
@command{testsuite}.
@item test-interop
This binary from a C-language program contains a test program for the SCTP driver.
For more information on @command{test-interop} see the corresponding manual page: @manref{test-interop(8)}.
Test programs are normally invoked on a test case by test case basis by the validation test suite,
@command{testsuite}.
@item testsuite
@itemx atlocal
The @command{testsuite} stand-alone shell script invokes test cases in the test programs above as
compiled into a comprehensive regression, troubleshooting and validation test suite for the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers.  The @file{atlocal} file provides localized definitions used
by the @command{testsuite} program.
For more information on test suites, @xref{Test Suites}, and, in particular, @xref{Running Test
Suites}.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following utility programs in the system binary
directory, @file{/@-usr/@-sbin/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod
This utility can be used by init scripts or administrative users to create or remove device nodes in
the @file{/dev} directory for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers.
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following user programs in the user binary
directory, @file{/@-usr/@-bin/@-}:

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following static and shared object libraries in the
system library directory, @file{/@-usr/@-lib/@-} (32-bit libraries) and @file{/@-usr/@-lib64/@-}
(64-bit libraries):

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following internationalization catalogues in
the internationalization directory, @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-locale/}:

@table @file
@item de/LC_MESSAGES/@value{PACKAGE}.mo
@end table
@end ignore

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following init scripts in the system init directory,
@file{/@-etc/@-rc.d/@-init.d/@-} (non-Debian) or @file{/@-etc/@-init.d/@-} (Debian):

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}
This is the name of the system init script on non-Debian based systems.
@item @value{PACKAGE}.sh
This is the name of the system init script on Debian based systems.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following system configuration files in the configuration
directory, @file{/@-etc/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.conf
This file provided configuration information for any system controls affected by the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.
@item modutils/@-@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides module definitions and demand loading aliases for the @file{@value{PACKAGE}}
package.  This file is really only applicable to older 2.4 kernels.
@item netconfig.d/@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides the @manpage{netconfig(5)} definitions for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
drivers.
@manpage{netconfig(5)} definitions are used by the @file{strnsl} package and the @file{libxnsl}
library.
@item sock2path.d/@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides the @manpage{sock2path(5)} definitions for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
drivers.
@manpage{sock2path(5)} definitions are used by the @file{strsock} package and the @file{libsocket}
library.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following system configuration file in the system
configuration directory, @file{/@-etc/@-sysconfig/@-} (non-Debian) or @file{/@-etc/@-default/@-}
(Debian):

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}
This file provides system configuration information used by init scripts for the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.  Some options of init script execution can be controlled by
this file.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following info files in the system info directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-info/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.info
@itemx @value{PACKAGE}.info-1
@itemx @value{PACKAGE}.info-2
These files contain this manual in @cite{GNU info} format.

@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manpage macros and reference database files in
the system man directory, @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-}:@footnote{Note that macro and reference
databse files are not installed if the package is configured for cooked manpages.}

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.macros
This file contains manual page macro definitions included by the manual pages included in the
package.
@item @value{PACKAGE}.refs
This file contains a reference database referenced by the manual pages included in the package.
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man1/@-}:

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man2/@-}:

@table @file
@end table
@end ignore

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man3/@-}:

@table @file
@item xti_sctp.3.gz
Documentation of the SCTP specific options and primitive formats for the X/Open Transport
Interface/Transport Layer Interface (XTI/TLI) for the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)
driver.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man4/@-}:

@table @file
@item sctp.4.gz
This manual page provides an overview of the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) driver and
is a good starting point when referencing the manual pages.
@item sctp_n.4.gz
This manual page provides an overview of the Network Provider Interface (NPI) and the Stream Control
Transmission Protocol (SCTP) driver and is a good staring point when referencing the manual pages.
@item sctp_t.4.gz
This manual page provides an overview of the Trasnport Provider Interface (TPI) and the Stream Control
Transmission Protocol (SCTP) driver and is a good staring point when referencing the manual pages.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man5/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.5
manual page for the @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(5)} package.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man7/@-}:

@table @file
@item npi_sctp.7.gz
Documentation of the SCTP specific options and primitive formats for the Network Provider Interface
(NPI) for the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) driver.
@item tpi_sctp.7.gz
Documentation of the SCTP specific options and primitive formats for the Transport Provider Interface
(TPI) for the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) driver.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man8/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod.8
Documentation for the @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}_mknod(8)} utility program.
@item test-sctp.8
Documentation for the @command{test-sctp} test program.
This manual pages documents all of the options a operation of the @command{test-sctp} program but
does not delve into the test cases themselves.  Descriptions of the test cases can be printed using
the @samp{--list} option to @command{test-sctp}.  See the program source for detailed information on
specific test cases.
@item test-sctp_n.8
Documentation for the @command{test-sctp_n} test program.
This manual pages documents all of the options a operation of the @command{test-sctp_n} program but
does not delve into the test cases themselves.  Descriptions of the test cases can be printed using
the @samp{--list} option to @command{test-sctp_n}.  See the program source for detailed information on
specific test cases.
@item test-sctp_nc.8
Documentation for the @command{test-sctp_nc} test program.
This manual pages documents all of the options a operation of the @command{test-sctp_nc} program but
does not delve into the test cases themselves.  Descriptions of the test cases can be printed using
the @samp{--list} option to @command{test-sctp_nc}.  See the program source for detailed information on
specific test cases.
@item test-sctp_ns.8
Documentation for the @command{test-sctp_ns} test program.
This manual pages documents all of the options a operation of the @command{test-sctp_ns} program but
does not delve into the test cases themselves.  Descriptions of the test cases can be printed using
the @samp{--list} option to @command{test-sctp_ns}.  See the program source for detailed information on
specific test cases.
@item test-sctp_t.8
Documentation for the @command{test-sctp_t} test program.
This manual pages documents all of the options a operation of the @command{test-sctp_t} program but
does not delve into the test cases themselves.  Descriptions of the test cases can be printed using
the @samp{--list} option to @command{test-sctp_t}.  See the program source for detailed information on
specific test cases.
@item test-etsi_n.8
Documentation for the @command{test-etsi_n} test program.
This manual pages documents all of the options a operation of the @command{test-etsi_n} program but
does not delve into the test cases themselves.  Descriptions of the test cases can be printed using
the @samp{--list} option to @command{test-etsi_n}.  See the program source for detailed information on
specific test cases.
@item test-etsi_t.8
Documentation for the @command{test-etsi_t} test program.
This manual pages documents all of the options a operation of the @command{test-etsi_t} program but
does not delve into the test cases themselves.  Descriptions of the test cases can be printed using
the @samp{--list} option to @command{test-etsi_t}.  See the program source for detailed information on
specific test cases.
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man9/@-}:

@table @file
@end table
@end ignore

@ignore
/usr
/usr/include
/usr/include/strsctp
/usr/include/strsctp/sys
/usr/include/strsctp/sys/strsctp
/usr/include/strsctp/sys/strsctp/config.h
/usr/include/strsctp/sys/strsctp/version.h
/usr/include/strsctp/sys/npi_sctp.h
/usr/include/strsctp/sys/tpi_sctp.h
/usr/include/strsctp/sys/xti_sctp.h
/usr/libexec
/usr/libexec/strsctp
/usr/libexec/strsctp/send-pr
/usr/libexec/strsctp/send-pr.config
/usr/libexec/strsctp/test-sctp
/usr/libexec/strsctp/test-sctp_n
/usr/libexec/strsctp/test-sctp_n2
/usr/libexec/strsctp/test-sctp_nc
/usr/libexec/strsctp/test-sctp_ns
/usr/libexec/strsctp/test-sctp_t
/usr/libexec/strsctp/test-etsi_n
/usr/libexec/strsctp/test-etsi_t
/usr/libexec/strsctp/test-interop
/usr/libexec/strsctp/testsuite
/usr/libexec/strsctp/atlocal
/usr/lib
/usr/sbin
/usr/sbin/strsctp_mknod
/usr/share
/usr/share/man
/usr/share/man/strsctp.macros
/usr/share/man/strsctp.refs
/usr/share/man/man3
/usr/share/man/man3/xti_sctp.3
/usr/share/man/man4
/usr/share/man/man4/sctp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sctp_n.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sctp_t.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tpiperf.4
/usr/share/man/man5
/usr/share/man/man5/strsctp.5
/usr/share/man/man7
/usr/share/man/man7/npi_sctp.7
/usr/share/man/man7/tpi_sctp.7
/usr/share/man/man8
/usr/share/man/man8/strsctp_mknod.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-interop.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-sctp.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-sctp_n.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-sctp_n2.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-sctp_nc.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-sctp_ns.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-sctp_t.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-etsi_n.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-etsi_t.8
/usr/share/info
/usr/share/info/strsctp.info
/usr/share/info/strsctp.info-1
/usr/share/info/strsctp.info-2
/etc
/etc/strsctp.conf
/etc/default
/etc/default/strsctp
/etc/init.d
/etc/init.d/strsctp.sh
/etc/modutils
/etc/netconfig.d
/etc/netconfig.d/strsctp
/etc/sock2path.d
/etc/sock2path.d/strsctp
/lib
/lib/modules
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strsctp
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strsctp/streams_tpiperf.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strsctp/streams_sctp.ko
@end ignore
