'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strconf.1.man,v 0.9.2.12 2008-04-28 12:53:39 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:39 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strconf.1.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.12  2008-04-28 12:53:39  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.11  2006/04/05 09:43:40  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRCONF 1 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ User Commands"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strconf
\- queries stream configuration
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBstrconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBstrconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-t\fR|\fB--topmost\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstrconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-m\fR|\fB--module\fR} \fImodule\fR
.HP 12
\fBstrconf\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstrconf\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstrconf\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B strconf
command is used to query the configuration of a stream.  When used without any
options, it prints a list of all the modules in the stream as well as the
topmost driver.  The list is printed with one name per line, where the first
name printed is the topmost modules on the stream and the last item printed is
the name of the driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
[\fB-t\fR, \fB--topmost\fR]
Prints only the topmost module of the stream (if one exists).
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--module\fR \fImodule\fR
Determines if the specified
.I module
is present on the stream.  If the module is present, the
.B strconf
command prints the message \(lqyes\(rq
and returns a value of zero (0).  If it is not present, the
.B strconf
command prints the message \(lqno\(rq
and returns a nonzero value.
.PP
The following options are non-portable:
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--debug\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increases or sets to \fIlevel\fR the debug verbosity, typically for debugging purposes.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increases or sets to \fIlevel\fR the output verbosity, typically for diagnostic purposes.
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Suppresses normal output.
(Equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 0 .)
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
When this option is encounted,
.B strconf
displays
usage
information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encounted,
.B strconf
displays
version
information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encounted,
.B strconf
displays
copyright and copying
information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.PP
The
.BR -t " and " -m
options are mutually exclusive.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.B strconf
returns zero on success (for the
.BR -m " or " -t
options, \*(lqsuccess\*(rq means the named or topmost module is present).  It
returns a non-zero status if invoked with the
.BR -m " or " -t
option and the module is not present.  It prints an error message and returns
non-zero status for various error conditions, including usage error or failure
of an ioctl on the stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B strconf
only operates on the stream representing standard input to the command.
.PP
If the caller does not have read permissions on the
stream and is not the superuser, the
.B strconf
command will fail.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/bin/strconf
contains the
.B strconf
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR strchg (1),
.BR strreset (1).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B strconf
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em
.I SVR 4.2
does not document long options.
The use of long options should be avoided by portable programs.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ", " --debug ", " --verbose " and " --quiet ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" ;
.[
svr42cr
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B strconf
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
