'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strlog.1.man,v 0.9.2.1 2005/07/21 20:47:19 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/07/21 20:47:19 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH STRLOG 1 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ User Commands"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strlog
\- write a message to the \fISTREAMS\fR logger
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.HP \w'strlog\ 'u
\fBstrlog\fR
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.\"[\fB-ids\fR]
[\fB-s\fR]
[\fB-M\fR\ \fImid\fR]
[\fB-S\fR\ \fIsid\fR]
[\fB-p\fR\ \fIpriority\fR]
[\fB-f\fR\ \fIfile\fR]
.\"[\fB-t\fR\ \fItag\fR]
.\"[\fB-u\fR\ \fIsocket\fR]
[\fImessage\fR\ \fI...\fR]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBstrlog\fR {{\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}|{\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}|{\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}}
.PD
.ad b
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B strlog
is a shell script interface to the
.IR STREAMS -based
logger,
.BR strlog (4).
.B strlog
accepts messages on the command line
.RI ( message )
or from
.I file
using the
.B -f
option, and delivers those messages to the
.I STREAMS
logger,
.BR strlog (4).
The
.BR -M " and " -S
options can be used to set the
.I STREAMS
module identifier,
.IR mid ,
and unit identifier,
.IR sid .
These identifiers, once set, are applicable to all messages logged.
The
.B -p
option can be used to set the logging
.I facility
and
.I level
as described below.
The priority, once set, is applicable to all messages logged.
.PP
Normally,
.B strlog
generates a message and passes it to the
.I STREAMS
logger,
using the
.BR putmsg (2)
interface to the log driver,
.BR strlog (4).
Using the
.B -s
option, the user can request that the message be formatted and logged to standard error,
.IR stderr ,
as well as the
.I STREAMS
logger.
.PP
The
.BR -t ", " -i ", " -u " and " -d
options are provided for compatibility with
.BR logger (1),
and are ignored.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB-M\fR, \fB--mid\fR \fImid\fR
Specifies the module identifier,
.IR mid ,
to be included in the
.I STREAMS
log.  If this option is not present, the
.I mid
defaults to zero
.RB ( 0 ).
The value of
.IR mid ,
specified last with this option (or by default) applies to all messages specified on the command
line, contained in
.IR file ,
or read from
.IR stdin .
.TP
\fB-S\fR, \fB--sid\fR \fIsid\fR
Specifies the unit identifier,
.IR sid ,
to be included in the
.I STREAMS
log.  If this option is not present, the
.I sid
defaults to zero
.RB ( 0 ).
The value of
.IR sid ,
specified last with this option (or by default) applies to all messages specified on the command
line, contained in
.IR file ,
or read from
.IR stdin .
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--priority\fR \fIpriority\fR
Specify the concatenated system log facility and level for the log message.
.I priority
can either be specified as a numeric value, or as a symbolic name using a dot notation:
.IR facility . level .
If this option is not specified,
.I priority
defaults to
.BR user . info .
The value of
.IR priority ,
specified last with this option (or by default) applies to all messages specified on the command
line, contained in
.IR file ,
or read from
.IR stdin .
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--file\fR \fIfile\fR
Provided for compatibility with
.BR logger (1);
when this option is specified, any
.I message
arguments are ingored and logger input is taken from
.IR file .
If
.I file
is
.RB \(lq - \(rq,
then
.I stdin
is read instead of a file.
Each line of input read from
.I file
is treated as a separate
.I message
and a separate invocation of
.BR strlog .
That is, each line of the input is formatted and passed to the
.I STREAMS
logger in the same fashion as though each line of input were specified as the
.I message
string argument to a separate
.B strlog
command.
The
.IR mid ", " sid " and " priority
specified on the command line (or arrived at by default) are applied to each line of the input.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--stderr\fR
Provided for compatibility with
.BR logger (1);
this option causes the output to also be written to
.IR stderr ,
in a format similar to that provided by the
.I STREAMS
.BR strace (8)
and
.BR strerr (8)
loggers.
See
.BR strace (8)
and
.BR strerr (8)
for a description of those formats.
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--tag\fR \fItag\fR
Provided for compatibility with
.BR logger (1);
this option is ignored.
.TP
\fB-i\fR, \fB--id\fR
Provided for compatibility with
.BR logger (1);
this option is ignored.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--socket\fR \fIdevice\fR
Provided for compatibility with
.BR logger (1);
this option is ignored.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--datagram\fR
Provided for compatibility with
.BR logger (1);
this option is ignored.
.TP
\fB-D\fR, \fB--debug\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increases or sets to \fIlevel\fR the debug verbosity, typically for debugging purposes.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increases or sets to \fIlevel\fR the output verbosity, typically for diagnostic purposes.
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Suppresses normal output.
(Equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 0 .)
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-?\fR, \fB--?\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B strlog
prints usage information and then exits.  No additional option scanning or other actions are
performed.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B strlog
prints version information and then exits.  No additional option scanning or other actions are
performed.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B strlog
prints version information and then exits.  No additional option scanning or other actions are
performed.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
\fR[\fImessage\fR \fI...\fR]
Zero or more message strings to be logged, concatentated together with a single space between them.
If no
.I message
argument is specified, and option
.B -f
is not given, then the message strings will be read from
.IR stdin .
See the description under the
.B -f
option, above.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
.TP \w'facility\(em'u
.I facility
is the log facility, and can be one of the following symbols:
.PP
.DS
.TS
tab(:);
lbw(\w'security'u)nlssss.
auth:0:T{
.hy 6
security information of a sensitive nature.
T}
authpriv:0:T{
.hy 6
security information of a sensitive nature.
T}
cron:0:T{
.hy 6
.BR cron (8)
jobs
T}
daemon:0:T{
.hy 6
messages fron daemon processes.
T}
ftp:0:T{
.hy 6
.BR ftp (1)
jobs
T}
kern:0:T{
.hy 6
message from kernel processes.
T}
lpr:0:T{
.hy 6
.BR lpr (1)
messages.
T}
mail:0:T{
.hy 6
.BR mail (1)
messages.
T}
news:0:T{
.hy 6
.BR news (1)
messages.
T}
security:0:T{
.hy 6
a deprecated synonym for
.BR auth .
T}
syslog:0:T{
.hy 6
.BR syslog (3)
messages.
T}
user:0:T{
.hy 6
log messages from a user.
T}
uucp:0:T{
.hy 6
.BR uucp (1)
messages.
T}
local0:0:T{
.hy 6
locally defined level 0.
T}
local1:0:T{
.hy 6
locally defined level 1.
T}
local2:0:T{
.hy 6
locally defined level 2.
T}
local3:0:T{
.hy 6
locally defined level 3.
T}
local4:0:T{
.hy 6
locally defined level 4.
T}
local5:0:T{
.hy 6
locally defined level 5.
T}
local6:0:T{
.hy 6
locally defined level 6.
T}
local7:0:T{
.hy 6
locally defined level 7.
T}
.TE
.DE
.TP \w'facility\(em'u
.I level
.PP
.DS
.TS
tab(:);
lbw(\w'security'u)nlssss.
alert:0:T{
.hy 6
T}
crit:0:T{
.hy 6
T}
debug:0:T{
.hy 6
T}
emerg:0:T{
.hy 6
T}
err:0:T{
.hy 6
T}
error:0:T{
.hy 6
T}
info:0:T{
.hy 6
T}
notice:0:T{
.hy 6
T}
panic:0:T{
.hy 6
T}
warning:0:T{
.hy 6
T}
warn:0:T{
.hy 6
T}
.TE
.DE
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B strlog
command is intended to be used with the
.IR STREAMS -based
logger.  See
.BR strlog (4).
This is most useful for trace messages associated with
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules, of which there are no counterpart in the
.B Linux
.IR BSD -based
system loggers.  Trace messages are filtered by the
.I STREAMS
logger,
.BR strlog (4)
and are collected in files using the system trace utility,
.BR strace (8).
Processes that wish to generate trace messages to the
.I STREAMS
logger should use this
.B strlog
utility.
Processes that wish to generate error messages to the
.I STREAMS
logger can use this
.B strlog
utility or the
.B Linux
.IR BSD -based
.BR logger (1)
utility.
.PP
The
.B strlog
utility is also useful for testing the
.IR STREAMS -based
logger,
.BR strlog (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.B strlog
returns a zero
.RB ( 0 )
exit status on success, and a positive, non-zero
.RB ( >0 )
exit status on failure.
When
.B strlog
fails, it prints a diagnostic message on standard error,
.IR stderr ,
and exits with an exit status of one
.RB ( 1 )
if an internal failure occured, and an exit status of two
.RB ( 2 )
if there was an error in option syntax.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.B strlog
uses the
.I STREAMS
loggin device,
.BR strlog (4),
which is normally present as the
.B /dev/strlog
device.
.TP
.BR /dev/strlog ", " /dev/streams/strlog
the
.I STREAMS
log device,
.BR strlog (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/bin/strlog
contains the
.B strlog
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.BR strlog :
.TP
.B LANG
Provide a default value for the i18n variables that are unset or null.  See
.BR locale (1).
.TP
.B LC_ALL
If set to a non-emtpy string, override the values of all other i18n variables.
.TP
.B LC_CTYPE
Determine the local for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of data as characters (for example,
single-byte as opposed to multi-byte characters in arguments).
.TP
.B LC_MESSAGES
Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and contents of diagnostic messages
written to standard error,
.IR stderr .
(This means diagnostic messages from
.B strlog
to the user or application, not diagnostic messages that the user is sending to the
.I STREAMS
logger.)
.TP
.B NLSPATH
Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of
.BR LC_MESSAGES .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR logger (1),
.BR strlog (4),
.BR strlog (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B strlog
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
When used without options,
.B strlog
can be used as a POSIX compliant
.BR logger (1p)
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SuSv3.
.[
susv3
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B strlog
is first provided with
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
