'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: xti_ip.3.man,v 0.9.2.6 2006/10/10 10:42:51 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/10 10:42:51 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: xti_ip.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/10/10 10:42:51  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:44:24  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strinet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strinet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH XTI-IP 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "X/Open Transport Interface (XTI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH "NAME"
.B xti_ip
\- X/Open Transport Interface \- Corrigendum for Internet Protocol (IP) Conformance
.\"
.\"
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_ip.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_inet.h>
.HP
.BI "int " ip_stream " = t_open(" \fR\*(lq/dev/rawip\*(rq\fI ", " flags );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int " ip_stream " = t_open(" \fR\*(lq/dev/rawip2\*(rq\fI ", " flags );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This manual page describes the XTI interface for IP in accordance with XNS 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.PP
The X/Open Transport Interface
.[
xns
.]
specifies addressing and options for Internet Protocol (IP).  Although this
interface is always exposed by including the
.RB < xti.h >
header file, it is provided by the
.RB < xti_ip.h >
header file included by the former.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This manual section describes the protocol-specific information that is
relevant for IP transport providers.  This section also describes the
protocol-specific information that is relevant when IP services are provided
over an IP network using IP.
.PP
This section also defines the data structures and constants required for IP
transport providers that are exposed through the
.RB < xti.h >
header file.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ADDRESS FORMAT"
.PP
For convenience and traditionally, the transport interface address used by XTI
for protocols in the TCP/IP protocol family use
.IR BSD -style
socket addresses (also described in XNS 5.2
.[[
xns
.]])
for addresses.
.PP
The socket address, defined in
.RB < sys/socket.h >,
is structured as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct sockaddr {
    uint16_t sa_family;
    char sa_data[14];
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The Internet Protocol family socket address, defined in
.RB < netinet/in.h >,
is structured as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef unsigned int in_addr_t;

struct in_addr {
    in_addr_t  s_addr;
};

struct sockaddr_in {
    sa_family_t         sin_family;  /* Address family */
    unsigned short int  sin_port;    /* Port number */
    struct in_addr      sin_addr;    /* Internet address */
    /* padding */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.B sockaddr_in
structure contains the following members:
.TP \w'sin_family\(em'u
.I sin_family
The address family.  Always set to
.BR AF_INET " or " AF_UNSPEC .
.PD 0
.TP
.I sin_port
The port number of the transport endpoint.
.TP
.I sin_addr
The IP address of the transport endpoint.
.TP
.I (padding)
Padding to pad the size of the
.B sockaddr_in
structure to the size of a
.B sockaddr
structure.
.PD
.PP
The structure is padded to the size of a
.BR sockaddr
structure (16 bytes).
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Options are formatted according to the
.B t_opthdr
structure as described in
.BR xti (3).
An IP transport provider compliant to this specification supports none, all
or any subset of the options defined here.  An implementation may restrict the
use of any of these options by offering them only in a priviledged read-only
mode.
.PP
Options can be
.I absolute requirements
and can also be of
.IR "end-to-end significance" ,
as follows:
.TP
.I Absolute Requirements
Options that are
.IR "absolute requirements" ,
mean the when the option is negotiated with the transport service provider,
the transport service provider is not permitted to negotiate the option to a
value with differing quality of service.  Either the proposed value is
accepted or it is rejected.  Options that are not
.IR "absolute requirements" ,
can be negotiated by the transport provider to a different quality of service
level and it is the responsibility of the transport service user to determine
whether the negotitated value is sufficient.
.TP
.I End-to-End Significance
Options that are of
.IR "end-to-end significance"
are options that require negotiation with, or are communicated to, the peer
transport provider or user.  For example, options that are requested in a
connection request,
.BR T_CONN_REQ (7),
primitive will be indicated at the peer in a connection indication,
.BR T_CONN_IND (7),
primitive.
Options that are not of
.IR "end-to-end significance"
are of local significance only and can be negotiated directly between the
local transport service user and the local transport service provider.
.PP
An IP transport provider supports two levels of options.  These two levels
are described below.
.\"
.\"
.SS "XTI_GENERIC"
.PP
Options with this level are specific to the X/Open Transport Interface (XTI/TLI)
.[
xti
.]
and are common to all transport providers.  For more information see
.BR xti (3).
.PP
The options defined with the option level
.B XTI_GENERIC
are as follows:
.TP
.B XTI_DEBUG
Sets debugging flags for the stream.
This option is formatted as an array of
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Legal values are implementation defined.
For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.TP
.B XTI_LINGER
Sets whether, and the amount of time if, the stream will linger waiting for
unsent data to be delivered.
This option is formatted as a
.B t_linger
structure as follows:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_linger {
    t_scalar_t l_onoff;   /* option on/off */
    t_scalar_t l_linger;  /* linger time */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'l_linger\(em'u
.I l_onoff
Specifies whether to linger
.RB ( T_YES )
or not
.RB ( T_NO ).
Legal values are
.BR T_YES " and " T_NO .
.TP
.I l_linger
Specifies the amount of time (in seconds) to linger.
Legal values are
.BR T_INFINITE ", " T_UNSPEC
and all positive numbers including zero.
.PP
For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.RE
.TP
.B XTI_RCVBUF
Specifies the size, in bytes, of the receive buffer.
This option is formatted as a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Legal values are all positive, non-zero numbers.
For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.TP
.B XTI_RCVLOWAT
Specifies the low water mark above which received data will be indicated and
delivered to the user.
This option is formatted as a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Legal values are all positive, non-zero numbers.
For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.TP
.B XTI_SNDBUF
Specifies the size, in bytes, of the transmit buffer.
This option is formatted as a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Legal values are all positive, non-zero numbers.
For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.TP
.B XTI_SNDLOWAT
Specifies the low water mark above which queued data will be transmitted to
the peer.
This option is formatted as a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Legal values are all positive, non-zero numbers.
For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.\"
.\"
.SS "T_INET_IP"
.PP
Options within this level are specific to the Internet Protocol (IP) and are
common to all the protocol levels in the TCP/IP suite.
All options controlling the basic IP networking occur at this level.
.PP
The options defined with the option level
.B T_INET_IP
are as follows:
.TP
.B T_IP_OPTIONS
This option is used to set (retreive) the OPTIONS field of each outgoing
(incoming) IP datagram.  It value is a string of octets composed of a number
of T_IP options, whose format matches those defined in the IP specification
with one exception: the linst of addresses for the souce routing option must
include the first-hop gateway at the beginning of the list of gateways.  The
first-hop gateway address will be extracted from the option list and the size
adjusted accordingly before use.
.IP ""
The option is disabled if it is specified with \*(lqno value\*(rq; that is,
with an option header only.
.IP ""
The functions
.BR t_connect (3)
(in synchronous mode),
.BR t_listen "(3), " t_rcvconnect "(3) and " t_rcvudata (3)
return the OPTIONS field, if any, of the received IP datagram associated with
this call.  The function
.BR t_rcvuderr (3)
returns the OPTIONS field of the data unit previously sent that produced the
error.  The function
.BR t_optmgmt ()
with
.B T_CURRENT
set retrieves the currently effective
.B T_IP_OPTIONS
that is sent with outgoing datagrams.
.IP ""
Common application never need this option.  It is mainly used for network
debugging and control purposes.
.IP ""
This option is formated as an array (maximum 40 elements) of
.BR "unsigned char" .
This option is an
.IR "absolute requirement" .
This option has
.IR "end-to-end significance" .
.TP
.B T_IP_TOS
This option is used to set (retrieve) the type-of-service filed of an
outgoing (incoming)
.B T_IP
datagram.  This field can be constructed by any OR'ed combination of one of
the precedence flags and the type-of-service flags.
.RS
.PP
.BI SET_TOS( prec ", " tos )
.PP
The option value is set using the macro
.BI SET_TOS( prec ", " tos )\fR,
where
.I prec
is set to one of the precedence flags and
.I tos
to one or an OR'ed combination of the type-of-service flags.
.BR  SET_TOS ()
returns the option value.
.TP
.I prec
The precedence flags specify datagram precedence, allowing senders to
indicate the importance of each datagram.  They are intended for
Department of Defence applications.  Applications using
.B T_IP_TOS
but not the precedence level should use the value of
.B T_ROUTINE
for precedence.
.I prec
can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'T_OVERRIDEFLASH\(em'u
.B T_ROUTINE
routine.
.PD 0
.TP
.B T_PRIORITY
priority precedence.
.TP
.B T_IMMEDIATE
immediate precedence.
.TP
.B T_FLASH
flash precedence.
.TP
.B T_OVERRIDEFLASH
flash override precedence.
.TP
.B T_CRITIC_ECP
flash override override precedence.
.TP
.B T_INETCONTROL
internetwork control.
.TP
.B T_NETCONTROL
network control.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I tos
The type-of-service flags specify the type of service the IP datagram
desires.
.I tos
can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'T_OVERRIDEFLASH\(em'u
.B T_NOTOS
no type of service.
.PD 0
.TP
.B T_LDELAY
low delay.
.TP
.B T_HITHRPT
high throughput.
.TP
.B T_HIREL
high reliability.
.TP
.B T_LOCOST
low cost.
.PD
.RE
.PP
The functions
.BR t_connect "(3), " t_listen "(3), " t_rcvconnect "(3) and " t_rcvudata (3)
return the type-of-service
.PP
This option is formatted as an
.BR "unsigned char" .
This option is an
.IR "absolute requirement" .
This option has
.IR "end-to-end significance" .
.RE
.TP
.B T_IP_TTL
This option is used to set the time-to-live field in an outgoing IP
datagram.  It specifies how long, in seconds, the datagram is allowed to
remain in the Internet.  The time-to-live field of an incoming datagram is
not returned by any function (since it is not an option with
.IR "end-to-end significance" ).
.IP ""
This option is formatted as an
.BR "unsigned char" .
It can take on values between
.BR 0 " and " 255 .
This option is an
.IR "absolute requirement" .
This option has
.IR "local significance" .
.TP
.B T_IP_REUSEADDR
Many TCP implementations do not allow the user to bind more than one
transport endpoint address with identical port numbers.  If
.B T_IP_REUSEADDR
is set to
.B T_YES
this restriction is relaxed in the sense that it is now allowed to bind a
transport endpoint to an address with a port number and an underspecified
internet address (\*(lqwild card\*(rq address) and further endpoints to
addresses with the same port number and (mutually exclusive) fully specified
internet addresses.
.sp
This option is formatted as an
.BR "unsigned int" .
It can take on values
.BR T_YES " or " T_NO .
This option is an
.IR "absolute requirement" .
This option has
.IR "local significance" .
.TP
.B T_IP_DONTROUTE
This option indicates that outgoing messages should bypass the standard
routing facilities.  It is mainly used for testing and development.
.sp
This option is formatted as an
.BR "unsigned int" .
It can take on values
.BR T_YES " or " T_NO .
This option is an
.IR "absolute requirement" .
This option has
.IR "local significance" .
.TP
.B T_IP_BROADCAST
This option requests permission to send broadcast datagrams.  It was
defined to make sure that broadcasts are not generated by mistake.  The
use of this option is often restricted to privileged users.
.sp
This option is formated as an
.BR "unsigned int" .
It can take on values
.BR T_YES " or " T_NO .
This option is an
.IR "absolute requirement" .
This option has
.IR "local significance" .
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR XTI-IP
has no known bugs.
The
.BR INET (4)
implementation of
.B XTI-IP
has been conformance tested and validated using the
.BR test-inet_rawip (8)
test case executable and the
.B @PACKAGE@ autotest
conformance and validation test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
In support of the
.BR sockets (3)
library for
.BR tpi (7)
transport providers, the options described here have been made compatible with
the socket options described in
.BR raw (7).
As a result, depending on the release of 
.BR INET (4),
the XTI/TLI options described might not be compatible with the options described
here.
.PP
The
.B Linux
socket version of IP described in
.BR raw (7),
accessed using the TPI interface of the
.B @PACKAGE@
package described in
.BR INET (4),
supports all of the options described here.
.PP
Earlier version of the
.BR INET (4)
driver did not support wildcard binds.  If an attempt was made to bind to a
wildcard address or port number, the bind would fail with
.RB [ TNOADDR ].
While this is correct behavior, it was not consistent with other
.B XTI-IP
implemetnations.  Recent versions of the
.BR INET (4)
driver include the ability to bind to wildcards or to request that the
transport service provider asign a suitable address.
.PP
UDPIncluding the
.RB < xti.h >
header file may include the
.RB < xti_inet.h >
header file.
Including the
.RB < xti_inet.h >
header file may include the
.RB < xti_ip.h >
header file.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR INET (4),
.BR read (2),
.BR readv (2),
.BR rawip (4),
.BR rawip (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR t_accept (3),
.BR t_connect (3),
.BR T_CONN_REQ (7),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_getinfo (3),
.BR timod (4),
.BR tirdwr (4),
.BR t_listen (3),
.BR T_OPTDATA_IND (7),
.BR t_optmgmt (3),
.BR t_rcvconnect (3),
.BR t_snddis (3),
.BR write (2),
.BR writev (2),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_ip (3),
.BR xti_udp (3),
.BR xti_tcp (3),
.BR xti_sctp (3),
.BR test-inet_rawip (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH "DEVICES"
.PP
There are a number of IP devices providing the Transport Provider Interface
that provide IP conforming TPI devices as follows:
.TP
.IR /dev/ip ", " /dev/inet/ip
.PD 0
.TP
.IR /dev/icmp ", " /dev/inet/icmp
.TP
.IR /dev/ggp ", " /dev/inet/ggp
.TP
.IR /dev/ipip ", " /dev/inet/ipip
.TP
.IR /dev/egp ", " /dev/inet/egp
.TP
.IR /dev/pup ", " /dev/inet/pup
.TP
.IR /dev/idp ", " /dev/inet/idp
.TP
.IR /dev/rawip ", " /dev/inet/rawip
.PD
.PP
These devices are provided by the
.BR @PACKAGE_TITLE@ ( @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ )
package.
For more information on the TPI IP device, see
.BR rawip (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This interface is compatible with
.IR "XNS 5.2" ,
.[
xns
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "XNS 5.2" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Internet Protocol (IP) options were not standardized until XPG4.
.[
xpg
.]
.IP \(em
The format of options for the Transport Provider Interface (TPI) differ from
those for the AT&T Transport Layer Interface (TLI).  This interface follows
the TPI.
.IP \(em
The precise values of some options and formats of primitives may differ from
implementation to implementation.  Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR xti (3),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
The OpenGroup XNS Issue 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
Conformance is validated using the
.BR test-inet_rawip (8)
test case executable and the
.B @PACKAGE@ autotest
validation test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.I Transport Provider Interface (TPI)
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
was first created by AT&T as the
.I Transport Layer Interface (TLI)
and was subsequently standardized by
.B UNIX International
and later
by
.B The OpenGroup
in XPG4
.[
xpg
.]
and XNS 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.PP
The
.B IP-TPI
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
stack.
This is an unofficial Corrigendum to XNS 5.2 Revision 2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
