% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
% vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=120
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: npi.texi,v 0.9.2.17 2008-07-11 09:48:46 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (C) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-11 09:48:46 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================
\input texinfo @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=120
@c %**start of header
@setfilename npi.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Network Link Provider Interface
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
@c %**end of header

@dircategory OpenGroup
@direntry
* NPI: (npi).                   Network Provider Interface Specification
@end direntry

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Network Link Provider Interface
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file documents the X/Open Network Provider Interface.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, for
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} release
@value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} published by @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7
Corporation}.  This specification was originally published by UNIX International
OSI Work Group in Revision: 2.0.0 (1992/08/17).

Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1992       UNIX International, Inc.

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results,
provided the printed document carries copying permission notice identical to
this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this paragraph not being
relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this documentation for any
purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this
permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name UNIX
International not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution
of the software without specific, written prior permission. UNIX International
makes no representations about the suitability of this documentation for any
purpose. It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical to
this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the above conditions for modified versions.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE Network Provider Interface
@set MANUAL_TYPE Specification

@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle UNIX International
@subtitle OSI Work Group
@subtitle Revision: 2.0.0
@subtitle August 17, 1992
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Distributed with Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

@subsubheading Published by:

@center UNIX International
@center Waterview Corporate Center
@center 20 Waterview Boulevard
@center Parsippany, NJ 07054
@sp 1
@center for further information, contact:
@center Vice President of Marketing
@sp 1
@center Phone: +1 201-263-8400
@center Fax: +1 201-263-8401
@sp 1

@ignore
@subsubheading International Offices:

@multitable @columnfractions .33 .33 .34
@item

@noindent
UNIX International @*
Asian/Pacific Office @*
Shinei Bldg. 1F @*
Kameido @*
Koto-ku, Tokyo 136 @*
Japan

@noindent
Phone: (81) 3-3636-1122 @*
Fax: (81) 3-3636-1121

@tab

@noindent
UNIX International @*
Australian Office @*
22/74 - 76 Monarch St. @*
Cremorne, NSW 2090 @*
Australia

@noindent
Phone: (61) 2-953-7838 @*
Fax: (61) 2 953-3542

@tab

@noindent
UNIX International @*
Pacific Basin Office @*
Cintech II @*
75 Science Park Drive @*
Singapore Science Park @*
Singapore 0511 @*
Singapore

@noindent
Phone: (32) 2-672-3700 @*
Fax: (32) 2-672-4415

@end multitable

@multitable @columnfractions .5 .5
@item

@noindent
UNIX International @*
European Office @*
25, Avenue de Beaulieu @*
1160 Brussels @*
Belgium

@noindent
Phone: (65) 776-0313 @*
Fax: (65) 776-0421

@tab

@noindent
@ 

@end multitable
@end ignore

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1992       UNIX International, Inc. @*

@noindent
All Rights Reserved. @*

@noindent
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@noindent
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this documentation for any
purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice appears in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this
permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name UNIX
International not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution
of the software without specific, written prior permission. UNIX International
makes no representations about the suitability of this documentation for any
purpose. It is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.

@noindent
@b{UNIX INTERNATIONAL DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
DOCUMENTATION, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS,
IN NO EVENT SHALL UNIX INTERNATIONAL BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA
OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS
DOCUMENTATION.}

@subsubheading Notice:

@noindent
This document is based on the UNIX System Laboratories Network Provider
Interface (NPI) specification which was used with permission by the UNIX
International OSI Work Group (UI OSIWG).  Participation inthe UI OSIWG is open
to UNIX International members and other interested parties.  For further
information contact UNIX International at the addresses above.

@noindent
UNIX International is making this documentation available as a reference point
for the industry.  While UNIX International believes that these interfaces are
well defined in this release of the document, minor changes may be made prior to
products conforming to the interfaces being made available from UNIX System
Laboratories or UNIX International members.

@subsubheading Trademarks:

@noindent
UNIX@registeredsymbol{} is a registered trademark of UNIX System Laboratories in the United
States and other countries.
X/Open(TM) is a trademark of the X/Open Company Ltd. in the UK and other
countries.
OpenSS7(TM) is a trademark of OpenSS7 Corporation in the United States and other
countries.

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

@subsubheading Published by:

@sp 1

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*
All Rights Reserved.

@noindent
Unauthorized distribution or duplication is prohibited.

@noindent
This software and related documentation is protected by copyright and
distributed under licenses restricting its use, copying, distribution and
decompilation.  No part of this software or related documentation may be
reproduced in any form by any means without the prior written authorization of
the copyright holder, and licensors, if any.

@noindent
The recipient of this document, by its retention and use, warrants that the
recipient will protect this information and keep it confidential, and will not
disclose the information contained in this document without the written
permission of its owner.

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise
this software and documentation for any reason, including but not limited to,
conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies, utilization of
advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the
design of any techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to
herein.  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no
obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@iftex
@headings off
@everyheading @thistitle @| @thisfile @| @thischaptername
@evenheading @thischapter @| @| @thisfile
@oddheading @thistitle @| @| @thischaptername
@everyfooting Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} @| @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @thispage
@evenfooting @thispage @| @| Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@oddfooting @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @| @thispage
@end iftex
@page

@c Define an index of primitives
@defcodeindex pr
@c Define an index of primitive values
@defcodeindex pv
@c Define an index of primitive error values
@defcodeindex pe
@c Define an index of protocol states
@defcodeindex st
@c Define an index of input-output controls
@defcodeindex ct
@c Define an index of manual pages.
@defcodeindex mp

@ifnottex
@c concatenate indices for text, html and info
@syncodeindex pr cp
@syncodeindex pv cp
@syncodeindex pe cp
@syncodeindex st cp
@syncodeindex mp cp
@syncodeindex tp cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex ct cp
@end ifnottex

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi

@iftex

@macro prim{name}
@code{\name\}@prindex \name\
@end macro

@macro pval{name}
@code{\name\}@pvindex \name\
@end macro

@macro perr{name}
@code{\name\}@peindex \name\
@end macro

@macro psta{name}
@code{\name\}@stindex \name\
@end macro

@macro parm{name}
@code{\name\}@vrindex \name\
@end macro

@macro pioc{name}
@code{\name\}@ctindex \name\
@end macro

@end iftex

@ifnottex
@c skip deep indexing for plain text, html and info
@c it messes up column with maximums (texinfo bug)

@macro prim{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro pval{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro perr{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro psta{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro parm{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro pioc{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@end ifnottex

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Network Provider Interface
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::
* The Network Layer::
* NPI Services Definition::
* NPI Primitives::
* Diagnostics Requirements::
* Addendum for OSI Conformance::
* Mapping NPI to ISO 8348 and CCITT X.213::
* State/Event Tables::
* Primitive Precedence Tables::
* NPI Header File Listing::
* Glossary::
* Acronyms::
* References::
* Index::
@end menu

@iftex
@c insert list of figures and tables for printed manuals
@page
@heading List of Figures
@listoffloats Figure
@page
@heading List of Tables
@listoffloats Table
@end iftex

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

This document specifies a @cite{STREAMS}-based
@cpindex STREAMS
kernel-level instantiation of the ISO/CCITT network service definition.  The
Network Provider Interface (NPI) enables the user of a network layer service to
access and use any of a variety of conforming network layer service providers
without specific knowledge of the provider's protocol.  The service interface is
designed to support any connection-mode network protocol and connectionless
network protocol.  This interface only specifies access to network layer service
providers, and does not address issues concerning network layer
management,protocol performance, and performance analysis tools.

The specification assumes that the reader is familiar with the OSI reference
model terminology, ISO/CCITT Network Layer Service, and @cite{STREAMS}.
@cpindex STREAMS

@section Related Documentation

@itemize ---

@item 1986 CCITT X.213 Recommendation (@pxref{X.213,,X.213})

@item ISO 8348 (@pxref{ISO8348,,ISO8348})

@item ISO 8348/AD1 (@pxref{ISO8348/AD1,,ISO8348/AD1})

@item ISO 8473 (@pxref{ISO8473,,ISO8473})

@item ISO 8208 (@pxref{ISO8208,,ISO8208})

@item ISO 8878 (@pxref{ISO8878,,ISO8878})

@item System V Interface Definition, Issue 2 - Volume 3 (@pxref{SVID,,SVID})

@end itemize

@subsection Role

This document specifies an interface that supports the service provided by the
Network Services Definition for Open Systems Interconnection for CCITT
Applications as described in CCITT Recommendation X.213 (@pxref{X.213,,X.213})
and ISO 8348 (for CONS) (@pxref{ISO8348,,ISO8348}) and ISO8348/Addendum 1 (for
CLNS) (@pxref{ISO8348/AD1,,ISO8348/AD1}).  These specifications are targeted for
use by) and ISO 8348 (for CONS) (@pxref{ISO8348,,ISO8348}) and ISO8348/Addendum
1 (for CLNS) (@pxref{ISO8348/AD1,,ISO8348/AD1}).  These specifications are
targeted for use by developers and testers of protocol modules that require
network layer service.

@page
@section Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations

@table @dfn

@item Calling NS user
@cpindex Calling NS user
An NS user that initiates a Network Connection (NC).

@item Called NS User
@cpindex Called NS User
An NS user with whom a calling NS user wishes to establish a network connection
(NC).

@item CLNP
@cpindex CLNP
Connection-less Network Protocol

@item CLNS
@cpindex CLNS
Connection-less Network Service

@item CONP
@cpindex CONP
Connection Oriented Network Protocol

@item CONS
@cpindex CONS
Connection Oriented Network Service

@item DLSAP
@cpindex DLSAP
Data Link Service Access Point

@item ISO
@cpindex ISO
International Organization for Standardization

@item NC
@cpindex NC
Network Connection

@item Network User
@cpindex Network User
Kernel level protocol or user level application that is accessing the services
of the network layer.

@item Network Provider
@cpindex Network Provider
Network layer entity/entities that provide/s the services of the network
interface.

@item NPI
@cpindex NPI
Network Provider Interface

@item NS
@cpindex NS
Network Service

@item NIDU
@cpindex NIDU
Network Interface Data Unit

@item NSAP
@cpindex NSAP
Network Service Access Point

@item NSDU
@cpindex NSDU
Network Service Data Unit

@item OSI
@cpindex OSI
Open Systems Interconnection

@item QOS
@cpindex QOS
Quality of Service

@item STREAMS
@cpindex STREAMS
A communication services development facility first available with
@cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 3}

@end table

@node The Network Layer
@chapter The Network Layer

@ifnotinfo
@menu
* Model of the NPI::
* NPI Services::
@end menu
@end ifnotinfo

The Network Layer provides the means to manage the operation of the network.  It
is responsible for the routing and management of data exchange between
network-user entities.

@node Model of the NPI
@section Model of the NPI

The NPI defines the services provided by the network layer to the network-user
at the boundary between the network layer and the network layer user entity.
The interface consists of a set of primitives defined as @cite{STREAMS}
@cpindex STREAMS
messages that provide access to the network layer services, and are transferred
between the NS user entity and the NS provider.  These primitives are of two
types; ones that originate from the NS user, and others that originate from the
NS provider.  The primitives that originate from the NS user make requests to
the NS provider, or respond to an event of the NS provider.  The primitives that
originate from the NS provider are either confirmations of a request or are
indications to the NS user that the event has occurred.  @figref{1} shows the
model of the NPI.

@figuresized{npi_fig1,1,Model of the NPI,4in}

The NPI allows the NS provider to be configured with any network layer user
(such as the OSI Transport Layer) that also conforms to the NPI.  A network
layer user can also be a user program that conforms to the NPI and accesses the
NS provider via @manref{putmsg(2s)} and @manref{getmsg(2s)} system calls.

@node NPI Services
@section NPI Services

@ifnotinfo
@menu
* CONS::
* CLNS::
* Local Management::
@end menu
@end ifnotinfo

The features of the NPI are defined in terms of the services provided by the NS
provider,and the individual primitives that may flow between the NS user and the
NS provider.

The services supported by the NPI are based on two distinct modes of
communication, connection (CONS) and connectionless (CLNS).  In addition, the
NPI supports services for local management.

@node CONS
@subsection CONS

The main features of the connection mode communication are:

@enumerate a

@item It is virtual circuit oriented;

@item It provides transfer of data via a pre-established path;

@item It provides reliable data transfer.

@end enumerate

There are three phases to each instance of communication: Connection
Establishment; Data Transfer; and Connection Termination.  Units of data arrive
at their destination in the same order as they departed their source and the
data is protected against duplication or loss of data units within some
specified quality of service.

@node CLNS
@subsection CLNS

The main features of the connectionless mode communication are:

@enumerate a

@item It is datagram oriented;

@item It provides transfer of data in self contained units;

@item There is no logical relationship between these units of data;

@item It is unreliable.

@end enumerate

Connectionless mode communication has no separate phases.  Each unit of data is
transmitted from source to destination independently, appropriate addressing
information is included with each unit of data.  As the units of data are
transmitted independently from source to destination, there are, in general, no
guarantees of proper sequence and completeness of the data stream.

@node Local Management
@subsection Local Management

The NPI specifications also define a set of local management functions that
apply to both CONS and CLNS modes of communication.  These services have local
significance only.

@tabref{1} and @tabref{2} summarizes the NPI service primitives by their state
and service.

@tabfig{npi_tab1,1,Service Primitives for Connection Mode Data Transfer}

@tabfig{npi_tab2,2,Service Primitives for Connectionless Mode Data Transfer}

@node NPI Services Definition
@chapter NPI Services Definition

@menu
* Local Management Services Definition::
* Connection-Mode Network Services Definition::
* Connectionless Network Services Definition::
@end menu

This section describes the services of the NPI primitives.  Time-sequence
diagrams that illustrate the sequence of primitives are included.  (Conventions
for the time-sequence diagrams are defined in CCITT X.210
(@pxref{X.210,,X.210}).) The format of the primitives will be defined later in
this document.

@node Local Management Services Definition
@section Local Management Services Definition

@menu
* Network Information Reporting Service::
* NS User Bind Service::
* NS User Unbind Service::
* Receipt Acknowledgement Service::
* Options Management Service::
* Error Acknowledgement Service::
@end menu

The services defined in this section are outside the scope of the international
standards.  These services apply to both connection-mode as well as the
connection-less modes of communication.  They are invoked for the
initialization/de-initialization of a stream connected to the NS provider.  They
are also used to manage options supported by the NS provider and to report
information on the supported parameter values.

@node Network Information Reporting Service
@subsection Network Information Reporting Service

This service provides information on the options supported by the NS provider.

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_INFO_REQ}: This primitive requests that the NS provider return the
values of all the supported protocol parameters.  This request may be invoked
during any phase.

@item @prim{N_INFO_ACK}: This primitive is in response to the @prim{N_INFO_REQ}
primitive and returns the values of the supported protocol parameters to the NS
user.

@end itemize

The sequence of primitives for network information management is shown in
@figref{2}.

@figuresized{npi_fig2,2,Sequence of Primitives; Network Information Reporting Service,4in}

@node NS User Bind Service
@subsection NS User Bind Service

This service allows a network address to be associated with a stream.  It allows
the NS user to negotiate the number of connect indications that can remain
unacknowledged for that NS user (a connect indication is considered
unacknowledged while it is awaiting a corresponding connect response or
disconnect request from the NS user).  This service also defines a mechanism
that allows a stream (bound to a network address of the NS user) to be reserved
to handle incoming calls only.  This stream is referred to as the listener
stream.

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_BIND_REQ}: This primitive requests that the NS user be bound to a
particular network address, and negotiate the number of allowable outstanding
connect indications for that address.

@item @prim{N_BIND_ACK}: This primitive is in response to the @prim{N_BIND_REQ}
primitive and indicates to the user that the specified NS user has been bound to
a network address.

@end itemize

The sequence of primitives for NS user bind service is shown in @figref{3}.

@figuresized{npi_fig3,3,Sequence of Primitives; NS User Bind Service,4in}

@node NS User Unbind Service
@subsection NS User Unbind Service

This service allows the NS user to be unbound from a network address.

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_UNBIND_REQ}: This primitive requests that the NS user be unbound
from the network address that it had previously been bound to.

@end itemize

The sequence of primitives for NS user unbind service is shown in @figref{4}.

@figuresized{npi_fig4,4,Sequence of Primitives; NS User Unbind & Receipt Acknowledgement,4in}

@node Receipt Acknowledgement Service
@subsection Receipt Acknowledgement Service

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_OK_ACK}: This primitive indicates to the NS user that the previous
NS user originated primitive was received successfully by the NS provider.

@end itemize

An example showing the sequence of primitives for successful receipt
acknowledgement is depicted in @figref{4}.

@node Options Management Service
@subsection Options Management Service

This service allows the NS user to manage the QOS parameter values associated
with the NS provider.

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ}: This primitive allows the NS user to select default
values for QOS parameters within the range supported by the NS provider, and to
indicate the default selection of receipt confirmation.

@end itemize

@figref{5} shows the sequence of primitives for network options management.

@figuresized{npi_fig5,5,Sequence of Primitives; Options Management Service,4in}

@node Error Acknowledgement Service
@subsection Error Acknowledgement Service

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_ERROR_ACK}: This primitive indicates to the NS user that a
non-fatal error has occurred in the last NS user originated request or response
primitive (listed in @figref{6}), on the stream.

@end itemize

@figref{6} shows the sequence of primitives for the error management primitive.

@figuresized{npi_fig6,6,Sequence of Primitives; Error Acknowledgement Service,4in}

@page
@node Connection-Mode Network Services Definition
@section Connection-Mode Network Services Definition

@menu
* Connection Establishment Phase::
* Data Transfer Phase::
* Reset Operation Primitives::
* Connection Termination Phase::
@end menu

This section describes the required network service primitives that define the
CONS interface.

The queue model for CONS is discussed in more detail in CCITT X.213
(@pxref{X.213,,X.213}) section 9.2.  The queue model represents the operation of
a network connection in the abstract by a pair of queues linking the two network
addresses.  There is one queue for each direction of information flow.  Each
queue represents a flow control function in one direction of transfer.  The
ability of a user to add objects to a queue will be determined by the behaviour
of the user removing objects from that queue, and the state of the queue.  The
pair of queues is considered to be available for each potential NC.  Objects
that are entered or removed from the queue are either as a result of
interactions at the two network addresses, or as the result of NS provider
initiatives.

@itemize @bullet

@item A queue is empty until a connect object has been entered and can be
returned to this state, with loss of its contents, by the NS provider.

@item Objects may be entered into a queue as a result of the actions of the
source NS user, subject to control by the NS provider;

@item Objects may also be entered into a queue by the NS provider.

@item Objects are removed from the queue under the control of the receiving NS
user.

@item Objects are normally removed under the control of the NS user in the same
order as they were entered except:

@itemize ---

@item if the object is of a type defined to be able to advance ahead of the
preceding object (however, no object is defined to be able to advance ahead of
another object of the same type), or

@item if the following object is defined to be destructive with respect to the
preceding object on the queue.  If necessary, the last object on the queue will
be deleted to allow a destructive object to be entered - they will therefore
always be added to the queue.  For example, ``disconnect'' objects are defined
to be destructive with respect to all other objects.  ``Reset'' objects are
defined to be destructive with respect to all other objects except ``connect'',
``disconnect'', and other ``reset'' objects.

@end itemize

@end itemize

@tabref{3} shows the ordering relationships among the queue model objects.

@tabfig{npi_tab3,3,Ordering Relationships Between Queue Model Objects}

@node Connection Establishment Phase
@subsection Connection Establishment Phase

A pair of queues is associated with an NC between two network addresses when the
NS provider receives an @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitive at one of the network
addresses resulting in a connect object being entered into the queue.  The
queues will remain associated with the NC until a @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive
(resulting in a disconnect object) is either entered or removed from a queue.
Similarly, in the queue from the called NS user, objects can be entered into the
queue only after the connect object associated with the @prim{N_CONN_RES} has
been entered into the queue.  Alternatively, the called NS user can enter a
disconnect object into the queue instead of the connect object to terminate the
NC.  The NC establishment procedure will fail if the NS provider is unable to
establish an NC,or if the destination NS user is unable to accept the
@prim{N_CONN_IND} (see NC Release primitive definition).

@subsubsection User Primitives for Successful Network Connection Establishment

@ 

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_CONN_REQ}: This primitive requests that the NS provider make a
connection to the specified destination.

@item @prim{N_CONN_RES}: This primitive requests that the NS provider accept a
previous connection indication.

@end itemize

@subsubsection Provider Primitives for Successful Network Connection Establishment

@ 

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_CONN_IND}: This primitive indicates to the NS user that a connect
request has been made by a user at the specified source address.

@item @prim{N_CONN_CON}: This primitive indicates to the NS user that a connect
request has been confirmed on the specified responding address.

@end itemize

The sequence of primitives in a successful NC establishment is defined by the
time sequence diagram as shown in @figref{7}.  The sequence of primitives for the
NC response token value determination is shown in @figref{8} (procedures for NC
response token value determination are discussed in sections 4.1.3 and 4.1.4.).

@figuresized{npi_fig7,7,Sequence of Primitives; Successful NC Establishment,4in}

@figuresized{npi_fig8,8,Sequence of Primitives; NC Response Token Value Determination,4in}

@node Data Transfer Phase
@subsection Data Transfer Phase

Flow control on the NC is done by management of the queue capacity, and by
allowing objects of certain types to be inserted to the queues, as shown in
@tabref{4}.

@tabfig{npi_tab4,4,Flow Control Relationships Between Queue Model Objects}

@subsubsection User Primitives for Data Transfer

@ 

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_DATA_REQ}: This primitive requests that the NS provider transfer the
specified data.

@item @prim{N_DATACK_REQ}: This primitive requests that the NS provider acknowledge
the data that had previously been received with receipt confirmation requested.

@item @prim{N_EXDATA_REQ}: This primitive requests that the NS provider transfer
the specified expedited network service data unit.

@end itemize

@subsubsection Provider Primitives for Data Transfer

@ 

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_DATA_IND}: This primitive indicates to the NS user that this message
contains data.

@item @prim{N_DATACK_IND}: This primitive indicates to the NS user that the remote NS
user has acknowledged the data that had previously been sent with receipt
confirmation requested.

@item @prim{N_EXDATA_IND}: This primitive indicates to the NS user that this message
unit contains expedited data.

@end itemize

@figref{9} shows the sequence of primitives for successful normal data transfer.
The sequence of primitives may remain incomplete if a @prim{N_RESET} or
@prim{N_DISCON} primitive occurs.

@figuresized{npi_fig9,9,Sequence of Primitives; Data Transfer,4in}

The sequence of primitives in a successful confirmation of receipt is defined in
the time sequence diagram as shown in @figref{10}.

@figuresized{npi_fi10,10,Sequence of Primitives; Successful Confirmation of Receipt,4in}

The sequence of primitives as shown above may remain incomplete if an
@prim{N_RESET} or an @prim{N_DISCON} primitive occurs (see @tabref{3}).  A NS user
must not issue an @prim{N_DATACK_REQ} primitive if no @prim{N_DATA_IND} with
confirmation request set has been received, or if all such @prim{N_DATA_IND}
have been previously acknowledged.  Following a reset procedure
(@prim{N_RESET_REQ} or @prim{N_RESET_IND}), a NS user may not issue
aN_DATACK_REQ to acknowledge an outstanding @prim{N_DATA_IND} received before
the reset procedure was signalled.

Note---The withholding of confirmation of receipt by a NS user can have an
effect on the attainable throughput on the NC.

The sequence of primitives for expedited data transfer is shown in the time
sequence diagram in @figref{11}.  This sequence of primitives may remain
incomplete if a @prim{N_RESET} or @prim{N_DISCON} primitive is issued.

@figuresized{npi_fi11,11,Sequence of Primitives; Expedited Data Transfer,4in}

@node Reset Operation Primitives
@subsection Reset Operation Primitives

The reset service is used by the NS user to resynchronize the use of the NC, or
by the NS provider to report detected loss of unrecoverable data.

The reset procedure involves the following interactions:

@enumerate A

@item a @prim{N_RESET_REQ} from the NS user, followed by a @prim{N_RESET_CON}
from the NS provider; or

@item a @prim{N_RESET_IND} from the NS provider, followed by a
@prim{N_RESET_RES} from the NS user.

@end enumerate

The complete sequence of primitives depends upon the origin/s of the reset
action.  The reset service may be:

@enumerate 1

@item invoked by one NS user, leading to interaction (A) with that NS user
and interaction (B) with the peer NS user;

@item invoked by both NS users, leading to interaction (A) with both NS users;

@item invoked by the NS provider, leading to interaction (B) with both NS users;

@item invoked by one NS user and the NS provider, leading to interaction (A)
with the originating NS user and (B) with the peer NS user.

@end enumerate

The @prim{N_RESET_REQ} acts as a synchronization mark in the flow of
@prim{N_DATA}, @prim{N_EXDATA}, and @prim{N_DATACK} primitives transmitted by
the issuing NS user; the @prim{N_RESET_IND} acts as a synchronization mark in
the flow of @prim{N_DATA}, @prim{N_EXDATA}, and @prim{N_DATACK} primitives
received by the receiving NS user.  Similarly, @prim{N_RESET_RES} acts as a
synchronization mark in the flow of @prim{N_DATA}, @prim{N_EXDATA}, and
@prim{N_DATACK} primitives transmitted by the responding NS user, while the
@prim{N_RESET_CON} acts as a synchronization mark in the flow of @prim{N_DATA},
@prim{N_EXDATA}, and @prim{N_DATACK} primitives received by the NS user that
originally issued the reset.  The resynchronizing properties of the reset
service are the following:

@enumerate a

@item All @prim{N_DATA}, @prim{N_EXDATA}, and @prim{N_DATACK} primitives issued
before issuing the @prim{N_RESET_REQ}/@prim{N_RESET_RES} that have not been
delivered to the other NS user before the @prim{N_RESET_IND}/@prim{N_RESET_CON}
are issued by the NS provider,should be discarded by the NS provider.

@item Any @prim{N_DATA}, @prim{N_EXDATA}, and @prim{N_DATACK} primitives issued
after the synchronization mark will not be delivered to the other NS user before
the synchronization mark is received.

@end enumerate

@subsubsection User Primitives for Reset Operations

@ 

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_RESET_REQ}: This primitive requests that the NS provider reset the
network connection.

@item @prim{N_RESET_RES}: This primitive indicates to the NS provider that the
NS user has accepted a reset indication.

@end itemize

@subsubsection Provider Primitives for Reset Operations

@ 

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_RESET_IND}: This primitive indicates to the NS user that the
network connection has been reset.

@item @prim{N_RESET_CON}: This primitive indicates to the NS user that the reset
request has been confirmed.

@end itemize

The sequence of primitives as shown in
@figref{12}, @figref{13}, @figref{14} and @figref{15}
may remain in complete if a @prim{N_DISCON} primitive occurs.

@figuresized{npi_fi12,12,Sequence of Primitives; NS User Invoked Reset,4in}

@figuresized{npi_fi13,13,Sequence of Primitives; Simultaneous NS User Invoked Reset,4in}

@figuresized{npi_fi14,14,Sequence of Primitives; NS Provider Invoked Reset,4in}

@figuresized{npi_fi15,15,Sequence of Primitives; Simultaneous NS User & NS Provider,4in}

@node Connection Termination Phase
@subsection Connection Termination Phase

The NC release procedure is initialized by the insertion of a disconnect object
(associated with a @prim{N_DISCON_REQ}) into the queue.  As shown in @tabref{3},
the disconnect procedure is destructive with respect to other objects in the
queue, and eventually results in the emptying of queues and termination of the
NC connection.

The sequence of primitives depends on the origin of the release action.  The
sequence may be:

@enumerate 1

@item invoked by one NS user, with a request from that NS user leading to an
indication to the other;

@item invoked by both NS users, with a request from each of the NS users;

@item invoked by the NS provider, with an indication to each of the NS users;

@item invoked independently by one NS user and the NS provider, with a request
from the originating NS user and an indication to the other.

@end enumerate

@subsubsection User Primitives for Connection Termination

@ 

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_DISCON_REQ}: This primitive requests that the NS provider deny an
outstanding request for a connection or disconnect an existing connection.

@end itemize

@subsubsection Provider Primitives for Connection Termination

@ 

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_DISCON_IND}: This primitive indicates to the NS user that either a
request for connection has been denied or an existing connection has been
terminated.

@end itemize

The sequence of primitives are shown in the time sequence diagrams in
@figref{16}, @figref{17}, @figref{18} and @figref{19}.

@figuresized{npi_fi16,16,Sequence of Primitives; NS User Invoked Release,4in}

@figuresized{npi_fi17,17,Sequence of Primitives; Simultaneous NS User Invoked Release,4in}

@figuresized{npi_fi18,18,Sequence of Primitives; NS Provider Invoked Release,4in}

@figuresized{npi_fi19,19,Sequence of Primitives; Simultaneous NS User & NS Provider,4in}

A NS user may reject an NC establishment attempt by issuing a
@prim{N_DISCON_REQ}.  The originator parameter in the @prim{N_DISCON} primitives
will indicate NS user invoked release.  The sequence of events is shown in
@figref{20}.

@figuresized{npi_fi20,20,Sequence of Primitives; NS User Rejection of an NC,4in}

If the NS provider is unable to establish an NC, it indicates this to the
requester by an @prim{N_DISCON_IND}.  The originator in this primitive indicates
an NS provider invoked release.  This is shown in @figref{21}.

@figuresized{npi_fi21,21,Sequence of Primitives; NS Provider Rejection of an NC,4in}

@node Connectionless Network Services Definition
@section Connectionless Network Services Definition

The CLNS allows for the transfer of the NS user data in one or both directions
simultaneously without establishing a network connection.  A set of primitives
are defined that carry user data and control information between the NS user and
NS provider entities.  The primitives are modelled as requests initiated by the
NS user and indications initiated by the NS provider.  Indications may be
initiated by the NS provider independently from requests by the NS user.

The connectionless network service consists of one phase.

@subsection User Request Primitives

@ 

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_UNITDATA_REQ}: This primitive requests that the NS provider send
the data unit to the specified destination.

@end itemize

@subsection Provider Response Primitives

@ 

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_UNITDATA_IND}: This primitive indicates to the NS user that a data
unit has been received from the specified source address.

@end itemize

@figref{22} shows the sequence of primitives for the connectionless mode of data
transfer.

@figuresized{npi_fi22,22,Sequence of Primitives; Connectionless Data Transfer,4in}

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_UDERROR_IND}: This primitive indicates to the NS user that the
data unit with the specified destination address and QOS parameters produced an
error.  This primitive is specific to CLNS.

@end itemize

@figref{23} shows the sequence of primitives for the CLNS error management
primitive.

@figuresized{npi_fi23,23,Sequence of Primitives; CLNS Error Indication Service,4in}

@node NPI Primitives
@chapter NPI Primitives

@menu
* Management Primitives::
* CONS Primitive Format and Rules::
* CLNS Primitive Format and Rules::
@end menu

This section describes the format and parameters of the NPI primitives
(@ref{Mapping NPI to ISO 8348 and CCITT X.213}, shows the mapping of the NPI
primitives to the primitives defined in ISO 8348 (@pxref{ISO8348,,ISO8348}) and
CCITT X.213 (@pxref{X.213,,X.213})).  In addition, it discusses the states the
primitive is valid in, the resulting state, and the acknowledgement that the
primitive expects.  (The state/event tables for these primitives are shown in
@ref{State/Event Tables}.  The precedence tables for the NPI primitives are
shown in @ref{Primitive Precedence Tables}.) Rules for OSI conformance are
described in @ref{Addendum for OSI Conformance}, to this document.

@tabref{5}, @tabref{6} and @tabref{7} provide a summary of the NS primitives and
their parameters.

@tabfig{npi_tab5,5,NC Establishment Network Service Primitives}

@tabfig{npi_tab6,6,Data Transfer Network Service Primitives}

@tabfig{npi_tab7,7,NC Release Network Service Primitives}

@page
@node Management Primitives
@section Management Primitives

@menu
* N_INFO_REQ::
* N_INFO_ACK::
* N_BIND_REQ::
* N_BIND_ACK::
* N_UNBIND_REQ::
* N_OPTMGMT_REQ::
* N_ERROR_ACK::
* N_OK_ACK::
@end menu

These primitives apply both to CONS as well as CLNS.

@node N_INFO_REQ
@subsection Network Information Request

@subsubheading N_INFO_REQ
@prindex N_INFO_REQ

This primitive requests the NS provider to return the values of all supported
protocol parameters (@pxref{N_INFO_ACK}), and also the current state of the NS
provider (as defined in @ref{State/Event Tables}).  This primitive does not
affect the state of the network provider and does not appear in the state
tables.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PCPROTO} message block and its structure is
as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_INFO_REQ */
} N_info_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_info_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in any state where a local acknowledgement is not
pending.

@subsubheading New State

The new state remains unchanged.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

This primitive requires the NS provider to generate one of the following
acknowledgements upon receipt of the primitive:

@itemize ---

@item Successful:
Acknowledgement of the primitive via the @prim{N_INFO_ACK} primitive.

@item Non-fatal_errors:
There are no errors associated with the issuance of this primitive.

@end itemize

@page
@node N_INFO_ACK
@subsection Network Information Acknowledgement

@subsubheading N_INFO_ACK
@prindex N_INFO_ACK

This primitive indicates to the NS user any relevant protocol-dependent
parameters.@footnote{In the future, this primitive will be modified such that
it will allow the NPI to accept either sub-network point of attachment addresses
or network addresses.} It should be initiated in response to the
@prim{N_INFO_REQ} primitive described above.

@subsubheading Format

The format of this message is one @msg{M_PCPROTO} message block and its
structure is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_INFO_ACK */
    ulong NSDU_size;        /* maximum NSDU size */
    ulong ENSDU_size;       /* maximum ENSDU size */
    ulong CDATA_size;       /* connect data size */
    ulong DDATA_size;       /* discon data size */
    ulong ADDR_size;        /* address size */
    ulong ADDR_length;      /* address length */
    ulong ADDR_offset;      /* address offse t */
    ulong QOS_length;       /* length of default QOS values */
    ulong QOS_offset;       /* offset of default QOS values from
                               the beginning of block */
    ulong QOS_range_length; /* length of range of QOS values */
    ulong QOS_range_offset; /* offset of range of QOS values from
                               the beginning of block */
    ulong OPTIONS_flags;    /* bit masking for options supported */
    ulong NIDU_size;        /* network interface data unit size */
    long SERV_type;         /* service type */
    ulong CURRENT_state;    /* current state */
    ulong PROVIDER_type;    /* type of provider */
    ulong NODU_size;        /* optimal NSDU size */
    ulong PROTOID_length;   /* length of bound protocol ids */
    ulong PROTOID_offset;   /* offset of bound protocol ids */
    ulong NPI_version;      /* version number of NPI that's
                               supported */
} N_info_ack_t;

/* Flags to indicate support of NS provider options */
#define REC_CONF_OPT    0x00000001L
#define EX_DATA_OPT     0x00000002L
#define DEFAULT_RC_SEL  0x00000004L

/* Service types supported by the NS provider */
#define N_CONS 1
#define N_CLNS 2

/* Valid provider types */
#define N_SNICFP 1
#define N_SUBNET 2
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_info_ack_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

The above fields have the following meaning:

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@item NSDU_size
Specifies the maximum size (in octets) of a Network Service Data Unit (NSDU)
supported by the NS provider.

@item ENSDU_size
Specifies the maximum size (in octets) of an Expedited Network Service Data Unit
(ENSDU) supported by the NS provider.

@item CDATA_size
Specifies the maximum number of octets of data that may be associated with
connection establishment primitives.

@item DDATA_size
Specifies the maximum number of octets of data that may be associated with the
disconnect primitives.

@item ADDR_size
Specifies the maximum size (in decimal digits) of a network address.

@item ADDR_length
Specifies the length in bytes of the network address bound on the STREAM on
which the @prim{N_INFO_REQ} was issued (a network address is bound to a STREAM
via a @prim{N_BIND_REQ}).

@item ADDR_offset
Specifies the offset of the bound network address from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PCPROTO} message block (this field should be ignored if the
@parm{ADDR_length} field is zero).

@item QOS_length
in an addendum to this document.  In the connection-mode environment, when this
primitive is invoked before the NC is established on the stream, the values
returned specify the the default values supported by the NS provider.  When this
primitive is invoked after a NC has been established on the stream, the values
returned indicate the negotiated values for the QOS parameters.  In the
connection-less environment, these values represent the default or the selected
QOS parameter values.  In case a QOS parameter is not supported by the NS
Provider, a value of @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN} will be returned.  In the case where no
QOS parameters are supported by the NS provider, this field will be zero.

@item QOS_offset
Indicates the offset of the QOS parameters from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PCPROTO} message block.

@item QOS_range_length
Indicates the length in bytes, of the available range of QOS parameters values
supported by the NS provider.  These ranges are used by the NS user to select
QOS parameter values that are valid with the NS provider.  QOS parameter values
are selected, or the default values altered via the @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ}
primitive.  In the connection-mode environment, the values for end-to-end QOS
parameters may be specified with the @prim{N_CONN} primitives for negotiation.
If the NS provider does not support a certain QOS parameter, its value will be
set to @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  In the case where no QOS parameters are supported by
the NS provider, the length of this field will be zero.

@item QOS_range_offset
Indicates the offset of the range of QOS parameter values from the beginning of
the @msg{M_PCPROTO} message block.

@item OPTIONS_flags
Defines flags that indicate whether the options described below are supported by
the NS provider.  The possible options are receipt confirmation, expedited data
and default selection for use of receipt confirmation.

@item NIDU_size
This indicates the amount of user data that may be present in a @prim{N_DATA}
primitive.  The @parm{NIDU_size} should not be larger than the
@parm{NSDU_size} specification.

@item SERV_type
Specifies the service type supported by the NS provider.  The possible values
can be @pval{N_CONS}, @pval{N_CLNS}, (or both as indicated by using
@pval{N_CONS}|@pval{N_CLNS}).

@item CURRENT_state
This indicates the current state of the NS provider.

@item PROVIDER_type
This indicates the type of NS provider.  The possible values can be
@pval{N_SNICFP} or @pval{N_SUBNET}.  The value @pval{N_SNICFP} indicates that
the provider is the Subnetwork Independent Convergence Function/Protocol
sub-layer of the network layer.  The value @pval{N_SUBNET} indicates that the
provider is a subnetwork.

@item NODU_size
This specifies the optimal NSDU size (in octets) of an NSDU given the current
routing information.

@item PROTOID_length
This specifies the length of the protocol ids that were bound using the
@prim{N_BIND_REQ}.

@item PROTOID_offset
This specifies the offset of the protocol ids that were bound using the
@prim{N_BIND_REQ}.

@item NPI_version
This indicates the current version of NPI that is supported.

@end table

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval

@item REC_CONF_OPT
When set, it indicates that the NS provider supports receipt confirmation.

@emph{This flag is used only in the connection-mode environment.}

@item EX_DATA_OPT
When set, it indicates that the NS provider supports expedited data transfer.

@emph{This flag is used only in the connection-mode environment.}

@item DEFAULT_RC_SEL
When set, it indicates that the default selection is for the use of receipt
confirmation for every @prim{N_DATA_REQ} primitive (This parameter is applicable
only when use of receipt confirmation is successfully negotiated via the
@prim{N_CONN} primitives).

@emph{This flag is used only in the connection-mode environment.}

@item N_CONS
When set, it indicates that the NS provider supports connection-mode network
services.

@item N_CLNS
When set, it indicates that the NS provider supports connection-less network
services.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in any state in response to a @prim{N_INFO_REQ}
primitive.

@subsubheading New State

The state remains the same.

@page
@node N_BIND_REQ
@subsection Bind Protocol Address Request

@subsubheading N_BIND_REQ
@prindex N_BIND_REQ

This primitive requests that the NS provider bind a NS user entity to a network
address and negotiate the number of connect indications allowed to be
outstanding by the NS provider for the specified NS user entity being bound.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block and its structure is as
follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_BIND_REQ */
    ulong ADDR_length;      /* length of address */
    ulong ADDR_offset;      /* offset of address */
    ulong CONIND_number;    /* req # of conn-indications to be
                               queued */
    ulong BIND_flags;       /* flags associated with N_BIND_REQ */
    ulong PROTOID_length;   /* length of the protocol id */
    ulong PROTOID_offset;   /* offset of protocol id */
} N_bind_req_t;

/* Flags associated with N_BIND_REQ */
#define DEFAULT_LISTENER    0x00000001L
#define TOKEN_REQUEST       0x00000002L
#define DEFAULT_DEST        0x00000004L
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_bind_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Is the primitive type.

@item ADDR_length
Is the length in bytes of the network address to be bound to the stream.

@item ADDR_offset
Is the offset from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} block where the network
address begins.

@item CONIND_number
Is the requested number of connect indications allowed to be outstanding by the
NS provider for the specified protocol address.  (If the number of outstanding
connect indications equals @parm{CONIND_number}, the NS provider need not discard
further incoming connect indications, but may choose to queue them internally
until the number of outstanding connect indications drops below the
@parm{CONIND_number}.) Only one stream per network address is allowed to have a
@parm{CONIND_number} value greater than zero.  This indicates to the network provider
that this stream is the listener stream for the NS user.  This stream will be
used by the NS provider for connect indications for that network address.

If a stream is bound as a listener stream, it will not be able to initiate
connect requests.  If the NS user attempts to send an @prim{N_CONN_REQ}
primitive down this stream, an @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} message will be sent to the NS
user by the NS provider with an error value of @perr{NACCESS}.

@emph{This field should be ignored in CLNS.}

@item PROTOID_length
Is the length in bytes of the protocol ids to be bound to the stream.

@item PROTOID_offset
Is the offset from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} block where the protocol
id begins.

@end table

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval

@item DEFAULT_LISTENER

When set, this flag indicates that this stream is the ``default listener
stream''.  This stream is used to pass connect indications for all incoming
calls that contain protocol identifiers that are not bound to any other
listener, or when a listener stream with @parm{CONIND_number} value of greater than
zero is not found.  Also, the default listener will receive all incoming call
indications that contain no user data.

Only one default listener stream is allowed per occurrence of NPI.  An attempt
to bind a default listener stream when one is already bound should result in an
error (of type @perr{NBOUND}).

@emph{The @pval{DEFAULT_LISTENER} flag is ignored in CLNS.}

@item TOKEN_REQUEST
When set, this flag indicates to the NS provider that the NS user has requested
that a ``token'' be assigned to the stream (to be used in the NC response
message), and the token value be returned to the NS user via the
@prim{N_BIND_ACK} primitive.

The token assigned by the NS provider can then be used by the NS user in a
subsequent @prim{N_CONN_RES} primitive to identify the stream on which the NC is
to be established.

@emph{The @pval{TOKEN_REQUEST} flag is ignored in CLNS.}

@item DEFAULT_DEST
When set, this flag indicates that this stream is the ``default destination
stream.'' This stream will receive all packets destined for the NSAP specified
in the bind request.  If no NSAP is indicated in the bind request, then this
stream should receive all packets destined to an NSAP which is bound to no other
stream.

Only one default destination stream per NSAP is allowed per occurrence of NPI.
An attempt to bind a default destination stream to an NSAP when one is already
bound should result in an error of type @perr{NBOUND}.

@emph{The @pval{DEFAULT_DEST} flag is ignored in the CONS.}

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_UNBND} (see @ref{State/Event Tables}).

@subsubheading New State

The new state is NE_WACK_BREQ.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

The NS provider will generate one of the following acknowledgements upon receipt
of the @prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive:

@itemize ---

@item Successful:
Correct acknowledgement of the primitive is indicated using the
@prim{N_BIND_ACK} primitive.

@item Non-fatal errors:
These errors will be indicated using the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.  The
applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:

@table @perr

@item NBADADDR
The network address was in an incorrect format or the address contained illegal
information.  It is not intended to indicate protocol errors.

@item NBOUND
The NS user attempted to bind a second stream to a network address with the
@parm{CONIND_number} set to a non-zero value, or attempted to bind a second
stream with the @pval{DEFAULT_LISTENER} flag value set to non-zero.

@item NNOADDR
The NS provider could not allocate an address.

@item NACCESS
The user did not have proper permissions for the use of the requested address.

@item NOUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item NSYSERR
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error
is indicated in the primitive.

@item NNOPROTOID
Protocol identifier could not be allocated.

@end table

@end itemize

@page
@node N_BIND_ACK
@subsection Bind Protocol Address Acknowledgement

@subsubheading N_BIND_ACK
@prindex N_BIND_ACK

This primitive indicates to the NS user that the specified network user entity
has been bound to the requested network address and that the specified number of
connect indications are allowed to be queued by the NS provider for the
specified network address.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PCPROTO} message block, and its structure is
the following:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_BIND_ACK */
    ulong ADDR_length;      /* address length */
    ulong ADDR_offset;      /* offset of address */
    ulong CONIND_number;    /* connection indications */
    ulong TOKEN_value;      /* NC response token value */
    ulong PROTOID_length;   /* length of protocol id */
    ulong PROTOID_offset;   /* offset from beg. of block */
} N_bind_ack_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_bind_ack_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@item ADDR_length
Is the length of the network address that was bound.

@item ADDR_offset
Is the offset from the beginning of the @msg{M_PCPROTO} block where the network
address begins.

@item CONIND_number
Is the accepted number of connect indications allowed to be outstanding by the
NS provider for the specified network address.  If its value is zero, this
stream cannot accept @prim{N_CONN_IND} messages.  If its value is greater than
zero, then the NS user can accept @prim{N_CONN_IND} messages up to the value
specified in this parameter before having to respond with a @prim{N_CONN_RES} or
a @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} message.

@emph{This field should be ignored for CLNS.}

@item TOKEN_value
Conveys the value of the ``token'' assigned to this stream that can be used by
the NS user in a @prim{N_CONN_RES} primitive to accept a NC on this stream.  It
is a non-zero value, and is unique to all streams bound to the NS provider.

@emph{This field should be ignored for CLNS.}

@item PROTOID_length
Conveys the length of the protocol ids that were bound.

@item PROTOID_offset
Conveys the offset of the protocol ids that were bound.

@end table

The proper alignment of the address in the @msg{M_PCPROTO} message block is not
guaranteed.

@subsubheading Bind Rules:

The following rules apply to the binding of the specified network address to the
stream:

@itemize ---

@item If the @parm{ADDR_length} field in the @prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive is
zero, then the NS provider is to assign a network address to the user.

@item The NS provider is to bind the network address as specified in the
@prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive.  If the NS provider cannot bind the specified
address, it may assign another network address to the user.  It is the network
user's responsibility to check the network address returned in the
@prim{N_BIND_ACK} primitive to see if it is the same as the one requested.

@end itemize

The following rules apply to negotiating @parm{CONIND_number} argument:

@itemize ---

@item The @parm{CONIND_number} in the @prim{N_BIND_ACK} primitive must be less
than or equal to the corresponding requested number as indicated in the
@prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive.

@item Only one stream that is bound to the indicated network address may have a
negotiated accepted number of maximum connect requests greater than zero.  If a
@prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive specifies a value greater than zero, but another
stream has already bound itself to the given network address with a value
greater than zero, the NS provider should assign another protocol address to the
user.

@item If a stream with @parm{CONIND_number} greater than zero is used to
accept a connection,the stream will be found busy during the duration of that
connection and no other streams may be bound to that network address with a
@parm{CONIND_number} greater than zero.  This will prevent more than one
stream bound to the identical network address from accepting connect
indications.

@item A stream requesting a @parm{CONIND_number} of zero should always be
legal.  This indicates to the NS provider that the stream is to be used to
request connections only.

@item A stream with a negotiated @parm{CONIND_number} greater than zero may
generate connect requests or accept connect indications.

@end itemize

@emph{If the above rules result in an error condition, then the NS provider must
issue an @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive to the NS user specifying the error as
defined in the description of the @prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive.}

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is in response to a @prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive and is valid in
the state @psta{NS_WACK_BREQ}.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_IDLE}.

@page
@node N_UNBIND_REQ
@subsection Unbind Protocol Address Request

@subsubheading N_UNBIND_REQ
@prindex N_UNBIND_REQ

This primitive requests that the NS provider unbind the NS user entity that
was previously bound to the network address.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} block, and its structure is as
follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_UNBIND_REQ */
} N_unbind_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_unbind_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in the @psta{NS_IDLE} state.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_WACK_UREQ}.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

This primitive requires the NS provider to generate the following
acknowledgements upon receipt of the primitive:

@itemize ---

@item Successful:
Correct acknowledgement of the primitive is indicated via the @prim{N_OK_ACK}
primitive, @pxref{N_OK_ACK}.

@item Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):
These errors will be indicated via the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.  The
applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:

@table @perr

@item NOUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item NSYSERR
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error
is indicated in the primitive.

@end table

@end itemize

@page
@node N_OPTMGMT_REQ
@subsection Network Options Management Request

@subsubheading N_OPTMGMT_REQ
@prindex N_OPTMGMT_REQ

This primitive allows the NS user to manage the QOS parameter values associated
with the stream.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, and its structure is
as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_OPTMGMT_REQ */
    ulong QOS_length;       /* length of QOS values */
    ulong QOS_offset;       /* offset of QOS values */
    ulong OPTMGMT_flags;    /* default receipt conf. selection */
} N_optmgmt_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_optmgmt_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@item QOS_length
Indicates the length of the default values of the QOS parameters as selected by
the NS user.  In the connection-mode environment these values will be used in
subsequent @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitives on the stream that do not specify values
for these QOS parameters.  In the connection-less environment, these values
represent the selected QOS values that would apply to each unit data
transmission.  If the NS user cannot determine the value of a QOS parameter, its
value should be set to @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  If the NS user does not specify any
QOS parameter values, the length of this field should be set to zero.

@item QOS_offset
Indicates the offset of the QOS parameters from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.

@end table

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval

@item DEFAULT_RC_SEL
When set, it indicates to the NS provider that the NS user's default selection
is for the use of receipt confirmation with every @prim{N_DATA_REQ} message
(applicable only when its use is successfully negotiated via the @prim{N_CONN}
primitives).  This default indication is used only when the @msg{M_PROTO}
message block is not present in the @prim{N_DATA_REQ} primitive.

@emph{This flag should be ignored in the connection-less environment.}

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in the @psta{NS_IDLE} state.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_WACK_OPTREQ}.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

The @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} primitive requires the NS provider to generate one of the
following acknowledgements upon receipt of the primitive:

@itemize ---

@item Successful:
Acknowledgement is via the @prim{N_OK_ACK} primitive.  At successful completion,
the resulting state is @psta{NS_IDLE}.

@item Non-fatal errors:
These errors are indicated in the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.  The resulting
state remains unchanged.  The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as
follows:

@table @perr

@item NOUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item NBADQOSPARAM
The QOS parameter values specified are outside the range supported by the NS
provider.

@item NBADQOSTYPE
The QOS structure type is not supported by the NS provider.

@item NSYSERR
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error
is indicated in the primitive.

@end table

@end itemize


@page
@node N_ERROR_ACK
@subsection Error Acknowledgement

@subsubheading N_ERROR_ACK
@prindex N_ERROR_ACK

This primitive indicates to the NS user that a non-fatal error has occurred in
the last network-user-originated primitive.  This may only be initiated as an
acknowledgement for those primitives that require one.  It also indicates to the
user that no action was taken on the primitive that caused the error.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PCPROTO} message block, and its structure is
asfollows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_ERROR_ACK */
    ulong ERROR_prim;       /* primitive in error */
    ulong NPI_error;        /* NPI error code */
    ulong UNIX_error;       /* UNIX system error code */
} N_error_ack_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_error_ack_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Identifies the primitive type

@item ERROR_prim
Identifies the primitive type that caused the error.

@item NPI_error
Contains the Network Provider Interface error code.

@item UNIX_error
Contains the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error code.  This may only be
non-zero if the NPI_error is equal to @perr{NSYSERR}.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid Error Codes

@emph{The following error codes are allowed to be returned:}

@table @perr

@item NBADADDR
The network address as specified in the primitive was in an incorrect format, or
the address contained illegal information.

@item NBADOPT
The options values as specified in the primitive were in an incorrect format, or
they contained illegal information.

@item NBADQOSPARAM
The QOS values specified are outside the range supported by the NS provider.
illegal.

@item NBADQOSTYPE
The QOS structure type is not supported by the NS provider.

@item NBADTOKEN
Token used is not associated with an open stream.

@item NNOADDR
The NS provider could not allocate an address.

@item NACCESS
The user did not have proper permissions.

@item NOUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item NBADSEQ
The sequence number specified in the primitive was incorrect or illegal.

@item NBADFLAG
The flags specified in the primitive were incorrect or illegal.

@item NBADDATA
The amount of user data specified was outside the range supported by the NS
provider.

@item NSYSERR
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error
is indicated in the primitive.

@item NNOTSUPPORT
Specified primitive type is not known to the NS provider.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in all states that have a pending acknowledgement or
confirmation.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is the same as the one from which the acknowledged request or
response was issued.

@page
@node N_OK_ACK
@subsection Successful Receipt Acknowledgement

@subsubheading N_OK_ACK
@prindex N_OK_ACK

This primitive indicates to the NS user that the previous network-
user-originated primitive was received successfully by the network provider.  It
does not indicate to the NS user any network protocol action taken due to the
issuance of the last primitive.  The @prim{N_OK_ACK}
primitive may only be
initiated as an acknowledgement for those user originated primitives that have
no other means of confirmation.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PCPROTO} message block, and its
structure is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_OK_ACK */
    ulong CORRECT_prim;     /* primitive being acknowledged */
} N_ok_ack_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_ok_ack_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Identifies the primitive.

@item CORRECT_prim
Identifies the successfully received primitive type.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is issued in states
@itemize @bullet
@item @psta{NS_WACK_UREQ},
@item @psta{NS_WACK_OPTREQ},
@item @psta{NS_WACK_RRES},
@item @psta{NS_WACK_CRES},
@item @psta{NS_WACK_DREQ6},
@item @psta{NS_WACK_DREQ7},
@item @psta{NS_WACK_DREQ9},
@item @psta{NS_WACK_DREQ10}, and
@item @psta{NS_WACK_DREQ11},
@end itemize
in response to
@itemize @bullet
@item @prim{N_UNBIND_REQ},
@item @prim{N_RESET_RES},
@item @prim{N_CONN_RES}, and
@item @prim{N_DISCON_REQ}
@end itemize
primitives.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state depends on the current state (see @tabref{B-7} and @tabref{B-8}.)

@page
@node CONS Primitive Format and Rules
@section CONS Primitive Format and Rules

@menu
* Connection Establishment Primitives::
* Normal Data Transfer Phase::
* Receipt Confirmation Service Primitives::
* Expedited Data Transfer Service::
* Reset Service::
* Network Connection Release Phase::
@end menu

This section describes the format of the CONS primitives and the rules
associated with these primitives.  The default values of the QOS parameters
associated with a NC may be selected via the @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} primitive.

@node Connection Establishment Primitives
@subsection Connection Establishment Primitives

@menu
* N_CONN_REQ::
* N_CONN_IND::
* N_CONN_RES::
* N_CONN_CON::
@end menu

The following network service primitives pertain to the establishment of an NC,
provided the NS users exist, and are known to the NS provider.

@node N_CONN_REQ
@subsubsection Network Connection Request

@subsubheading N_CONN_REQ
@prindex N_CONN_REQ

This primitive requests that the NS provider make a network connection to the
specified destination.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block followed by one or
more @msg{M_DATA} blocks for the NS user data transfer.  The specification of
the NS user data is optional.  The NS user can send any integral number of
octets of data within the range supported by the NS provider (see
@pxref{N_INFO_ACK}).  If the user does not specify QOS parameter values, the
default values (specified via @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ}) are used by the NS provider.

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_CONN_REQ */
    ulong DEST_length;      /* destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;      /* destination address offset */
    ulong CONN_flags;       /* bit masking for options flags */
    ulong QOS_length;       /* QOS parameters' length */
    ulong QOS_offset;       /* QOS parameters' offset */
} N_conn_req_t;

/* Flags to indicate if options are requested */
#define REC_CONF_OPT    0x00000001L
#define EX_DATA_OPT     0x00000002L
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_conn_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@item DEST_length
Indicates the length of the destination address parameter that conveys an
address identifying the NS user to which the NC is to be established.  This
field will accommodate variable length addresses within a range supported by the
NS provider.

@item DEST_offset
Is the offset of the destination address from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO}
message block.

@item QOS_length
Indicates the length of the QOS parameters values that apply to the NC being
requested.  If the NS user cannot determine the value of a QOS parameter, its
value should be set to @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  If the NS user does not specify any
QOS parameter values, the length of this field should be set to zero.

@item QOS_offset
Indicates the offset of the QOS parameters from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.

@end table

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval

@item REC_CONF_OPT
The receipt confirmation selection parameter indicates the use/availability of
the receipt confirmation service on the NC.  The receipt confirmation service
must be supported by the NS provider to be used on the NC.

@item EX_DATA_OPT
Indicates the use of the expedited data transfer service on the NC.  The
expedited data transfer service must be provided by the NS provider for it to be
used on the NC.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_IDLE}.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_WCON_CREQ}.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

The following acknowledgements are valid for this primitive:

@itemize ---

@item Successful NC Establishment:
This is indicated via the @prim{N_CONN_CON} primitive.  This results in the data
transfer state.

@item Unsuccessful NC Establishment:
This is indicated via the @prim{N_DISCON_IND} primitive.  For example, a
connection may be rejected because either the called NS user cannot be reached,
or the NS provider and/or the called NS user did not agree with the specified
QOS.  This results in the idle state.

@item Non-fatal errors:
These are indicated via the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.  The applicable
non-fatal errors are defined as follows:

@table @perr

@item NACCESS
The user did not have proper permissions for the use of the requested address or
options.

@item NBADQOSPARAM
The QOS parameter values specified are outside the range supported by the NS
provider.

@item NBADQOSTYPE
The QOS structure type is not supported by the NS provider.

@item NBADADDR
The network address was in an incorrect format or contained illegal information.
It is not intended to indicate NC errors, such as an unreachable destination.
These errors types are indicated via the @prim{N_DISCON_IND} primitive.

@item NBADOPT
The options were in an incorrect format, or they contained illegal information.

@item NOUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item NBADDATA
The amount of user data specified was outside the range supported by the NS
provider.

@item NSYSERR
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error
is indicated in the primitive.

@end table

@end itemize

@page
@node N_CONN_IND
@subsubsection Network Connection Indication

@subsubheading N_CONN_IND
@prindex N_CONN_IND

This primitive indicates to the destination NS user that a network connect
request has been made by the user at the specified source address.

@subsubheading Format

The format of this message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block followed by one or
more @msg{M_DATA} blocks for NS user data.  The specification of NS user data is
optional.  The NS user can send any integral number of octets of data within the
range supported by the NS provider.  The NS user data will only be present if
the corresponding @prim{N_CONN_REQ} had NS user data parameter specified, and
their data will be identical.

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_CONN_IND */
    ulong DEST_length;      /* destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;      /* destination address offset */
    ulong SRC_length;       /* source address length */
    ulong SRC_offset;       /* source address offset */
    ulong SEQ_number;       /* sequence number */
    ulong CONN_flags;       /* bit masking for options flags */
    ulong QOS_length;       /* QOS parameters' length */
    ulong QOS_offset;       /* QOS parameters' offset */
} N_conn_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_conn_ind_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@item DEST_length
Indicates the length of the destination address parameter that conveys an
address identifying the NS user to which the NC is to be established.

@item DEST_offset
Is the offset of the destination address from the beginning of theM_PROTO
message block.

@item SRC_length
The source address parameter conveys the network address of the NS user from
which the NC has been requested.  The semantics of the value in the
@prim{N_CONN_IND} primitive is identical to the value associated with the stream
on which the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} was issued.

@item SRC_offset
Is the offset of the destination address from the beginning of theM_PROTO
message block.

@item SEQ_number
Identifies the sequence number that can be used by the NS user to associate this
message with the @prim{N_CONN_RES} or @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive that is to
follow.  This value must be unique among the outstanding @prim{N_CONN_IND}
messages.  The use of this field allows the NS user to issue the
@prim{N_CONN_RES} or the @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} messages in any order.

@item QOS_length
Indicates the length of the QOS parameters values that are negotiated during NC
establishment.  If the destination NS user does not agree to the range of QOS
values specified by the source NS user in the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitive, it
will reject the NC establishment by invoking a @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive(the
originator parameter in the @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive will indicate NS user
initiated release).  If the NS user does not support or cannot determine the
value of a QOS parameter, its value will be set to @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  If the
NS user does not specify any QOS parameter values, the length of this field
should be set to zero.

@item QOS_offset
Indicates the offset of the QOS parameters from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.

@end table

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval

@item REC_CONF_OPT
The receipt confirmation selection parameter indicates the use/availability of
the receipt confirmation service on the NC.  The receipt confirmation service
must be provided in the network service to be used on the NC.

@item EX_DATA_OPT
The expedited data selection parameter indicates the use/ availability of the
expedited data transfer service on the NC.  The expedited data transfer service
must be provided by the NS provider for it to be used on the NC.  Valid States
This primitive is valid in the states @psta{NS_IDLE} and @psta{NS_WRES_CIND}.
New State In both cases the resulting state is @psta{NS_WRES_CIND} (the number
of connect indications waiting for user response is incremented by one).

@end table


@page
@node N_CONN_RES
@subsubsection Network Connection Response

@subsubheading N_CONN_RES
@prindex N_CONN_RES

This primitive allows the destination NS user to request that the network
provider accept a previous connect request.

@subsubheading Format

The format of this message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block followed by one or
more @msg{M_DATA} blocks (for NS user data).  The specification of the NS user
data is optional.

The NS user can send any integral number of octets of data within the range
supported by the NS provider.

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} block is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_CONN_RES */
    ulong TOKEN_value;      /* NC response token value */
    ulong RES_length;       /* responding address length */
    ulong RES_offset;       /* responding address offset */
    ulong SEQ_number;       /* sequence number */
    ulong CONN_flags;       /* bit masking for options flags */
    ulong QOS_length;       /* QOS parameters' length */
    ulong QOS_offset;       /* QOS parameters' offset */
} N_conn_res_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_conn_res_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@item TOKEN_value
Is used to identify the stream that the NS user wants to establish the NC on.
(Its value is determined by the NS user by issuing a @prim{N_BIND_REQ} primitive
with the @pval{TOKEN_REQUEST} flag set.The token value is returned in the
@prim{N_BIND_ACK}).  The value of this field should be non-zero when the NS user
wants to establish the NC on a stream other than the stream on which the
@prim{N_CONN_IND} arrived.  If the NS user wants to establish a NC on the same
stream that the @prim{N_CONN_IND} arrived on, then the value of this field
should be zero.

@item RES_length
Indicates the length of the responding address parameter that conveys the
network address of the NS user to which the NC has been established.  Under
certain circumstances, such as call redirection, generic addressing, etc., the
value of this parameter may be different from the destination address parameter
specification in the corresponding @prim{N_CONN_REQ}.

@item RES_offset
Indicates the offset of the responding address from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.

@item SEQ_number
Indicates the sequence number of the @prim{N_CONN_RES} message.It is used by the
NS provider to associate the @prim{N_CONN_RES} message with an outstanding
@prim{N_CONN_IND} message.  An invalid sequence number should result in error
with the message type @perr{NBADSEQ}.

@item QOS_length
Indicates the length of the QOS parameters values that are negotiated during NC
establishment.  If the NS user does not agree to the QOS values, it will reject
the NC establishment by invoking a @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive (the originator
parameter in the @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive will indicate NS user invoked
release).  If the NS user cannot determine the value of a QOS parameter, its
value should be set to @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  If the NS user does not specify any
QOS parameter values, the length of this field should be set to zero.

@item QOS_offset
Indicates the offset of the QOS parameters from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.

@end table

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval

@item REC_CONF_OPT
The receipt confirmation selection parameter indicates the use/availability of
the receipt confirmation service on the NC.  The receipt confirmation service
must be provided in the network service to be used on the NC.

@item EX_DATA_OPT
The expedited data selection parameter indicates the use/availability of the
expedited data transfer service on the NC.  The expedited data transfer service
must be provided by the NS provider for it to be used on the NC.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_WRES_CIND}.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_WACK_CRES}.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

The NS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgements upon
receipt of this primitive:

@itemize ---

@item Successful:
Successful completion is indicated via the @prim{N_OK_ACK} primitive.

@item Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):
Errors are indicated via the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.  The applicable
non-fatal errors are defined as follows:

@table @perr

@item NBADOPT
The options were in an incorrect format, or they contained illegal information.

@item NBADQOSPARAM
The QOS parameter values specified are outside the range supported by the NS
provider.

@item NBADQOSTYPE
The QOS structure type is not supported by the NS provider.

@item NBADTOKEN
The token specified is not associated with an open stream.

@item NACCESS
The user did not have proper permissions for the use of the options of the
options or response id.

@item NOUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item NBADDATA
The amount of user data specified was outside the range supported by the NS
provider.

@item NBADSEQ
The sequence number specified in the primitive was incorrect or illegal.

@item NSYSERR
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error
is indicated in the primitive.

@end table

@end itemize


@page
@node N_CONN_CON
@subsubsection Network Connection Confirm

@subheading N_CONN_CON
@prindex N_CONN_CON

This primitive indicates to the source NS user that the network connect request
has been confirmed on the specified responding address.

@subsubheading Format

The format of this message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block followed by one or
more @msg{M_DATA} blocks (for NS user data).  The specification of the NS user
data is optional.

The NS user can send any integral number of octets of NS user data within a
range supported by the NS provider (@pxref{N_INFO_ACK}).  The NS user data
will only be present if the corresponding @prim{N_CONN_RES} had NS user data
specified with it, and their data will always be identical.

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} block is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_CONN_CON */
    ulong RES_length;       /* responding address length */
    ulong RES_offset;       /* responding address offset */
    ulong CONN_flags;       /* bit masking for options flags */
    ulong QOS_length;       /* QOS parameters' length */
    ulong QOS_offset;       /* QOS parameters' offset */
} N_conn_con_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_conn_con_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@item RES_length
Indicates the length of the responding address parameter that conveys the
network address of the NS user entity to which the NC has been established.  The
semantics of the values in the @prim{N_CONN_CON} is identical to the values in
@prim{N_CONN_RES}.  Under certain circumstances, such as call redirection,
generic addressing, etc., the value of this parameter may be different from the
destination address parameter specification in the corresponding
@prim{N_CONN_REQ}.

@item RES_offset
Indicates the offset of the responding address from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.

@item QOS_length
Indicates the length of the QOS parameters values selected by the responding NS
user.  If the NS provider does not support or cannot determine the selected
value of a QOS parameter, its value will be set to @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  If the
NS provider does not specify any QOS parameter values, the length of this field
should be set to zero.

@item QOS_offset
Indicates the offset of the QOS parameters from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.

@end table

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval

@item REC_CONF_OPT
The receipt confirmation selection parameter indicates the use/availability of
the receipt confirmation service on the NC.  The receipt confirmation service
must be provided in the network service to be used on the NC.

@item EX_DATA_OPT
The expedited data selection parameter indicates the use/ availability of the
expedited data transfer service on the NC.  The expedited data transfer service
must be provided by the NS provider for it to be used on the NC.  Valid States
This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_WCON_CREQ}.  New State The new state
is @psta{NS_DATA_XFER}.

@end table

@page
@node Normal Data Transfer Phase
@subsection Normal Data Transfer Phase

@menu
* N_DATA_REQ::
* N_DATA_IND::
@end menu

The data transfer service primitives provide for an exchange of NS user data
known as NSDUs, in either direction or in both directions simultaneously on a
NC.  The network service preserves both the sequence and the boundaries of the
NSDUs (when the NS provider supports NSDUs).

@node N_DATA_REQ
@subsubsection Normal Data Transfer Request

@subsubheading N_DATA_REQ
@prindex N_DATA_REQ

This user-originated primitive indicates to the NS provider that this message
contains NS user data.  It allows the transfer of NS_user_data between NS users,
without modification by the NS provider.  The NS user must send any integral
number of octets of data greater than zero.  In a case where the size of the
NSDU exceeds the NIDU (as specified by the size of the @parm{NIDU_size}
parameter of the @prim{N_INFO_ACK} primitive), the NSDU may be broken up into
more than one NIDU.  When an NSDU is broken up into more than one NIDU, the
@pval{N_MORE_DATA_FLAG} will be set on each NIDU except the last one.  The
RC_flagmay only be set on the last NIDU.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one or more @msg{M_DATA} blocks.  Use of a
@msg{M_PROTO} message block is optional.  The @msg{M_PROTO} message block is
used for two reasons:

@enumerate 1

@item to indicate that the NSDU is broken into more than one NIDUs, and that the
data carried in the following @msg{M_DATA} message block constitutes one NIDU;

@item to indicate whether receipt confirmation is desired for the NSDU.

@end enumerate

@subsubheading Guidelines for use of M_PROTO:

The following guidelines must be followed with respect to the use of the
@msg{M_PROTO}
message block:

@enumerate 1

@item The @msg{M_PROTO} message block need not be present when the NSDU size is
less than or equal to the NIDU size and one of the following is true:

@itemize ---

@item receipt confirmation has been negotiated for non-use (via the
@prim{N_CONN} primitives); or

@item receipt confirmation has been successfully negotiated for use or non-use
and the default selection as specified via the @prim{N_OPTMGMT} primitive is to
be used.

@end itemize

@item The @msg{M_PROTO} message block must be present when:

@itemize ---

@item the NSDU size is greater than the NIDU size;

@item receipt confirmation has been successfully negotiated for use and the
default selection as specified via @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} primitive needs to be
overridden.

@end itemize

@end enumerate

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block, if present, is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_DATA_REQ */
    ulong DATA_xfer_flags;  /* bit masking for data xfer flags */
} N_data_req_t;

/* Data Transfer Flags */
#define N_MORE_DATA_FLAG    0x00000001L
#define N_RC_FLAG           0x00000002L
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_data_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@end table

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval

@item N_MORE_DATA_FLAG
When set, the @pval{N_MORE_DATA_FLAG} indicates that the next @prim{N_DATA_REQ}
message (NIDU) is also part of this NSDU.

@item N_RC_FLAG
By setting this flag on the @prim{N_DATA_REQ}, the originating NS user can
request confirmation of receipt of the @prim{N_DATA} primitive.  The receipt is
provided by the @prim{N_DATACK} primitives.  The parameter may only be present
if use of Receipt Confirmation was agreed by both NS users and the NS provider
during NC establishment.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in the @psta{NS_DATA_XFER} state.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains the same (@psta{NS_DATA_XFER}).

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

This primitive does not require any acknowledgements, although it may generate
a fatal error.  This is indicated to the NS user via a @msg{M_ERROR}
@cite{STREAMS} message
type (specifying an errno value of @errno{EPROTO}) which results in the failure of
all system calls on that stream.  The applicable errors are defined as follows:

@table @errno

@item EPROTO
This indicates one of the following unrecoverable protocol conditions:

@itemize ---

@item The network interface was found to be in an incorrect state.

@item The amount of NS user data associated with the primitive is outside the
range supported by the NS provider (as specified by the @parm{NIDU_size}
parameter of @prim{N_INFO_ACK} primitive).

@item The options requested are either not supported by the NS provider or its
use not specified with the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitive.

@item The @msg{M_PROTO} message block was not followed by one or more
@msg{M_DATA} message blocks.

@item The amount of NS user data associated with the current NSDU is outside the
range supported by the NS provider (as specified by the @parm{NSDU_size}
parameter if the @prim{N_INFO_ACK} primitive.)

@item The @pval{N_RC_FLAG} and @pval{N_MORE_DATA_FLAG} were both set in the
primitive, or the flags field contained an unknown value.

@end itemize

@end table

NOTE: If the interface is in the @psta{NS_IDLE} or @psta{NS_WRES_RIND} states
when the provider receives the @prim{N_DATA_REQ} primitive, then the NS provider
should discard the request without generating a fatal error.


@page
@node N_DATA_IND
@subsubsection Normal Data Transfer Indication

@subsubheading N_DATA_IND
@prindex N_DATA_IND

This network-provider-originated primitive indicates to the NS user that this
message contains NS user data.  As in the @prim{N_DATA_REQ} primitive, the NSDU
can be segmented into more than one NIDUs.  The NIDUs are associated with the
NSDU by using the @pval{N_MORE_DATA_FLAG}.  The @pval{N_RC_FLAG} is allowed to
be set only on the last NIDU.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one or more @msg{M_DATA} message blocks.  The value
of the NS user data field is always the same as that supplied in the
corresponding @prim{N_DATA_REQ} primitive at the peer service access point.  Use
of @msg{M_PROTO} message blocks is optional (see guidelines under
@pxref{N_DATA_REQ}).

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block, if present, is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_DATA_IND */
    ulong DATA_xfer_flags;  /* bit masking for data xfer flags */
} N_data_ind_t;

/* Data Transfer Flags */
#define N_MORE_DATA_FLAG    0x00000001L
#define N_RC_FLAG           0x00000002L
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_data_ind_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@end table

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval

@item N_MORE_DATA_FLAG
When set, indicates that the next @prim{N_DATA_IND} message (NIDU) is part of this NSDU.

@item N_RC_FLAG
The value of the parameter may indicate either that confirmation is requested or
that it is not requested.  The parameter is allowed to be set only if use of
Receipt Confirmation was agreed to between both the NS users and the NS provider
during NC establishment.  The value of this parameter is always identical to that
supplied in the corresponding @prim{N_DATA_REQ} primitive.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_DATA_XFER}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains the same (@psta{NS_DATA_XFER}).

@page
@node Receipt Confirmation Service Primitives
@subsection Receipt Confirmation Service Primitives

@menu
* N_DATACK_REQ::
* N_DATACK_IND::
@end menu

The receipt confirmation service is requested by the confirmation request
parameter on the @prim{N_DATA_REQ} primitive.  For each and every NSDU with the
confirmation request parameter set, the receiving NS user should return an
@prim{N_DATACK_REQ} primitive.Such acknowledgements should be issued in the same
sequence as the corresponding @prim{N_DATA_IND} primitives are received, and are
to be conveyed by the NS provider in such a way so as to preserve them distinct
from any previous or subsequent acknowledgements.  The NS user may thus
correlate them with the original requests by counting.  When an NSDU has been
segmented into more than one NIDUs, only the last NIDU is allowed to request
receipt confirmation.  @prim{N_DATACK_REQ} primitives will not be subject to the
flow control affectingN_DATA_REQ primitives at the same NC endpoint.
@prim{N_DATACK_IND} primitives will not be subject to the flow control affecting
@prim{N_DATA_IND} primitives at the same NC endpoint.

The use of the receipt confirmation service must be agreed to by the two NS
users of the NC and the NS provider during the NC establishment by using the
RC_selection parameter on the @prim{N_CONN} primitives.

@node N_DATACK_REQ
@subsubsection Data Acknowledgement Request

@subsubheading N_DATACK_REQ
@prindex N_DATACK_REQ

This is a user-originated primitive that requests that the network provider
acknowledge the @prim{N_DATA_IND} that had previously been received with the
receipt confirmation parameter set.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block and its structure is
as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_DATACK_REQ */
} N_datack_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_datack_req_t;
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_DATA_XFER}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains the same (@psta{NS_DATA_XFER}).

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

This primitive does not require any acknowledgements, although it may generate a
fatal (unrecoverable) error.  This is indicated via an @msg{M_ERROR}
@cite{STREAMS} message type (issued to the NS user specifying the errno value of
@errno{EPROTO}), which results in the failure of all system calls on that
stream.  The allowable errors are as follows:

@table @errno

@item EPROTO
This indicates the following unrecoverable protocol condition:

@itemize ---

@item The network interface was found to be in an incorrect state.

@end itemize

@end table

NOTE: If the interface is in the @psta{NS_IDLE} state when the provider receives
the @prim{N_DATACK_REQ} primitive, then the NS provider should discard the
request without generating a fatal error.  If the NS provider had no knowledge
of a previous @prim{N_DATA_IND} with the receipt confirmation flag set, then the
NS provider should just ignore the request without generating a fatal error.

@page
@node N_DATACK_IND
@subsubsection Data Acknowledgement Indication

@subsubheading N_DATACK_IND
@prindex N_DATACK_IND

This is a NS provider originated primitive that indicates to the network service
user that the remote network service user has acknowledged the data that had
previously been sent with the receipt confirmation set.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block and its structure
is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_DATACK_IND */
} N_datack_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_datack_ind_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_DATA_XFER}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains the same (@psta{NS_DATA_XFER}).

@page
@node Expedited Data Transfer Service
@subsection Expedited Data Transfer Service

@menu
* N_EXDATA_REQ::
* N_EXDATA_IND::
@end menu

The expedited data transfer service provides a further means of information
exchange on an NC in both directions simultaneously.  The transfer of expedited
network service data unit (ENSDU) is subject to separate flow control from that
applying to NS user data (However, a separate @cite{STREAMS}
@cpindex STREAMS
message type for expedited data is not available with
@cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 3.1}.  Until a new @cite{STREAMS}
message type is provided, expedited data will be implemented via queue
manipulation).  The NS provider should guarantee that an expedited-NSDU will not
be delivered after any subsequently issued NSDU or expedited-NSDU on that NC.
The relationship between normal and expedited data is shown in @tabref{2}.
Expedited data can still be delivered when the receiving NS user is not
accepting normal data (however this cannot be guaranteed if there are blockages
occurring in the lower layers).  The expedited data transfer service is a NS
provider option, and its use must be agreed by the two NS users of the NC and
the NS provider during NC establishment by using the @pval{EX_DATA_OPT}
parameter on the @prim{N_CONN} primitives.

@node N_EXDATA_REQ
@subsubsection Expedited Data Transfer Request

@subsubheading N_EXDATA_REQ
@prindex N_EXDATA_REQ

This is a NS user originated primitive and is used to indicate to the network
provider that the message block contains an ENSDU.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, followed by one or
more @msg{M_DATA} blocks.  The NS user must send an integral number of octets of
data within the range supported by the NS provider (@pxref{N_INFO_ACK}).

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_EXDATA_REQ */
} N_exdata_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_exdata_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_DATA_XFER}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains the same (@psta{NS_DATA_XFER}).

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

This primitive does not require any acknowledgements, although it may generate a
fatal (unrecoverable) error.  This is indicated via an @msg{M_ERROR}
@cite{STREAMS} message type (issued to the NS user with the errno value of
@errno{EPROTO}), which results in the failure of all system calls on that
stream.  The applicable errors are as follows:

@table @errno

@item EPROTO
This indicates one of the following unrecoverable protocol conditions:

@itemize ---

@item The network interface was found to be in an incorrect state.

@item The amount of NS user data associated with the primitive defines an
expedited network service data unit of a size that is outside the range
supported by the NS provider.

@item Expedited data transfer is either not supported by the NS provider or not
requested with the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitive.

@end itemize

@end table

NOTE: If the interface is in the @psta{NS_IDLE} or @psta{NS_WRES_RIND} states
when the provider receives the @prim{N_EXDATA_REQ} primitive, then the NS
provider should discard the request without generating a fatal error.

@page
@node N_EXDATA_IND
@subsubsection Expedited Data Transfer Indication

@subsubheading N_EXDATA_IND
@prindex N_EXDATA_IND

This is a NS provider originated primitive and is used to indicate to the NS
user that this message contains an ENSDU.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, followed by one or
more @msg{M_DATA} blocks.  The value of the data in the @msg{M_DATA} blocks is
identical to that supplied with the corresponding @prim{N_EXDATA_REQ} primitive.

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_EXDATA_IND */
} N_exdata_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_exdata_ind_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_DATA_XFER}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains the same (@psta{NS_DATA_XFER}).

@page
@node Reset Service
@subsection Reset Service

@menu
* N_RESET_REQ::
* N_RESET_IND::
* N_RESET_RES::
* N_RESET_CON::
@end menu

The reset service can be used by the NS user to resynchronize the use of the NC;
or by the NS provider to report detected loss of data unrecoverable within the
network service.

All loss of data which does not involve loss of the NC is reported in this way.
Invocation of the reset service will unblock the flow of NSDUs and ENSDUs in
case of congestion of the NC; it will cause the NS provider to discard NSDUs,
ENSDUs, or confirmations of receipt associated with the NC (See @tabref{1}), and to
notify any NS user or users that did not invoke reset that a reset has occurred.
The service will be completed in finite time,irrespective of the acceptance of
the NSDUs, ENSDUs, and confirmations of receipt by the NS users.

@node N_RESET_REQ
@subsubsection Reset Request

@subsubheading N_RESET_REQ
@prindex N_RESET_REQ

This user-originated primitive requests that the NS provider reset the
network connection.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, and its structure
is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_RESET_REQ */
    ulong RESET_reason;     /* reason for reset */
} N_reset_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_reset_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@item RESET_reason
Gives information indicating the cause of the reset.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in the @psta{NS_DATA_XFER} state.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state is NS_WACK_RREQ.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

@itemize ---

@item Successful:
This primitive does not require an immediate acknowledgement, although when the
resynchronization completes successfully, a @prim{N_RESET_CON} primitive is
issued to the NS user that issued the @prim{N_RESET_REQ}.

@item Unsuccessful:
A non-fatal error is acknowledged via the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.  In this
case the resulting state remains unchanged.  The following non-fatal error codes
are valid:

@table @perr

@item NOUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item NSYSERR
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error
is indicated with the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.

@end table

@end itemize

NOTE: If the interface is in the @psta{NS_IDLE} state when the provider receives
the @prim{N_RESET_REQ} primitive, then the NS provider should discard the
message without generating an error.

@page
@node N_RESET_IND
@subsubsection Reset Indication

@subsubheading N_RESET_IND
@prindex N_RESET_IND

This network-provider-originated primitive indicates to the NS user that the
network connection has been reset.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, and its structure
is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_RESET_IND */
    ulong RESET_orig;       /* reset originator */
    ulong RESET_reason;     /* reason for reset */
} N_reset_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_reset_ind_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@item RESET_orig
This parameter indicates the source of the reset.

@item RESET_reason
Gives information indicating the cause of the reset.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in the @psta{NS_DATA_XFER} state.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_WRES_RIND}.

@page
@node N_RESET_RES
@subsubsection Reset Response

@subsubheading N_RESET_RES
@prindex N_RESET_RES

This user-originated primitive indicates that the NS user has accepted a reset
request.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block and its structure
is the following:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_RESET_RES */
} N_reset_res_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_reset_res_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_WRES_RIND}.

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_WACK_RRES}.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

@itemize ---

@item Successful:
The successful completion of this primitive is indicated via the @prim{N_OK_ACK}
primitive.  This results in the data transfer state.

@item Unsuccessful:
An unsuccessful completion of this primitive is indicated by the
@prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.  The resulting state remains the same.  The
following non-fatal error-codes are valid:

@table @perr

@item NOUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item NSYSERR
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error
is indicated in the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.

@end table

@end itemize

NOTE: If the interface is in the @psta{NS_IDLE} state when the provider receives
the @prim{N_RESET_RES} primitive, then the NS provider should discard the
message without generating an error.

@page
@node N_RESET_CON
@subsubsection Reset Confirmation

@subsubheading N_RESET_CON
@prindex N_RESET_CON

This NS provider-originated primitive indicates to the network user that
initiated the reset, that the reset request has been confirmed.  The NS provider
is allowed to issue the @prim{N_RESET_CON} primitive to the NS user that
initiated the reset even before receiving a @prim{N_RESET_RES}.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block and its structure
is the following:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_RESET_CON */
} N_reset_con_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_reset_con_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_WCON_RREQ}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state is @psta{NS_DATA_XFER}.

@page
@node Network Connection Release Phase
@subsection Network Connection Release Phase

@menu
* N_DISCON_REQ::
* N_DISCON_IND::
@end menu

The NC release service primitives are used to release a NC.  The release may
be performed by:

@itemize ---

@item either or both of the NS users to release an established NC;

@item the NS provider to release an established NC (all failures to maintain an
NC are indicated in this manner);

@item the destination NS user to reject an @prim{N_CONN_IND};

@item by the NS provider to indicate its inability to establish a requested NC.

@end itemize

An NC release is permitted at any time regardless of the current phase of the
NC.  Once an NC release procedure has been invoked, the NC will be released; a
request for release cannot be rejected.  The network service does not guarantee
delivery of any data once the NC release phase is entered (see @tabref{1}).

@node N_DISCON_REQ
@subsubsection Disconnect Request

@subsubheading N_DISCON_REQ
@prindex N_DISCON_REQ

This user-originated primitive requests that the NS provider deny a request for
a network connection, or disconnect an existing connection.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, followed by one or
more @msg{M_DATA} message blocks (for NS user data).  The NS user data may be
lost if the NS provider initiates release before the @prim{N_DISCON_IND} is
delivered.  Therefore, the NS user data parameter is present only if the
originator parameter (@pxref{N_DISCON_IND}) indicates
that the release was originated by an NS user.  The NS user may send any
integral number of octets of data within a range supported by the NS provider
(@pxref{N_INFO_ACK}).

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_DISCON_REQ */
    ulong DISCON_reason;    /* reason */
    ulong RES_length;       /* responding address length */
    ulong RES_offset;       /* responding address offset */
    ulong SEQ_number;       /* sequence number */
} N_discon_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_discon_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@item DISCON_reason
Gives information about the cause of the release.

@item RES_length
Indicates the length of the address of the responding address parameter.  The
responding address parameter is an optional parameter, and is present in the
primitive only in the case where the primitive is used to indicate rejection of
an NC establishment attempt by an NS user.  The responding address parameter
conveys the network address of the NS user entity from which the
@prim{N_DISCON_REQ} was issued and under certain circumstances (e.g.  call
redirection, generic addressing, etc.) may be different from the ``destination
address'' in the corresponding @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitive.

@item RES_offset
Is the offset from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block where the
network address begins.

@item SEQ_number
When non-zero, it identifies the sequence number of the @prim{N_CONN_IND}
message being rejected.  This number is used by the NS provider to associate the
@prim{N_DISCON_REQ} with an unacknowledged @prim{N_CONN_IND} that is to be
rejected.  If the @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} is rejecting a NC that is already
established(or rejecting a @prim{N_CONN_REQ} that the NS user had previously
sent and has not yet been confirmed), then this field should have a value of
@samp{0}.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in states @psta{NS_WCON_CREQ}, @psta{NS_WRES_CIND},
@psta{NS_DATA_XFER}, @psta{NS_WCON_RREQ}, @psta{NS_WRES_RIND}.

@subsubheading New State

The new state depends on the original state (see @tabref{B-8}).

@subsubheading Acknowledgements:

The NS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgements upon
receipt of this primitive:

@itemize ---

@item Successful:
Successful completion is indicated via the @prim{N_OK_ACK} primitive.

@item Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):
Errors are indicated via the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} primitive.  The applicable
non-fatal errors are as follows:

@table @perr

@item NOUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@item NBADDATA
The amount of user data specified was outside the range supported by the NS
provider.

@item NSYSERR
A system error has occurred and the @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error
is indicated in the primitive.

@item NBADSEQ
The specified sequence number referred to an invalid @prim{N_CONN_IND} message,
or the @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} is rejecting an NC that is already established (or
rejecting anN_CONN_REQ that the NS user had previously sent and has not yet been
confirmed) and the value of the sequence number is not @samp{0}.

@end table

@end itemize

@page
@node N_DISCON_IND
@subsubsection Disconnect Indication

@subsubheading N_DISCON_IND
@prindex N_DISCON_IND

This network-provider originated primitive indicates to the NS user that either
a request for connection has been denied or an existing connection has been
disconnected.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, followed by one or
more @msg{M_DATA} blocks.  The value of the NS user data parameter is identical
to the value in the corresponding @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive.  The NS user
data parameter is present only if the originator parameter indicates that the
release was initiated by the NS user.

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_DISCON_IND */
    ulong DISCON_orig;      /* originator */
    ulong DISCON_reason;    /* reason */
    ulong RES_length;       /* responding address length */
    ulong RES_offset;       /* responding address offset */
    ulong SEQ_number;       /* sequence number */
} N_discon_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_discon_ind_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@item DISCON_orig
Indicates the source of the NC release.

@item DISCON_reason
Gives information about the cause of the release.

@item RES_length
Indicates the length of the address of the responding address parameter.  The
responding address parameter is an optional parameter, and is present in the
primitive only in the case where the primitive is used to indicate rejection of
an NC establishment attempt by an NS user.  When not present, the value of this
parameter is zero.  When present, the value of the disconnect address parameter
is identical to that supplied with the corresponding @prim{N_DISCON_REQ}
primitive.

@item RES_offset
Is the offset from the beginning of the @msg{M_PROTO} message block where the
network address begins.

@item SEQ_number
When its value is non-zero, it identifies the sequence number associated with
the @prim{N_CONN_IND} that is being aborted.

The value of this parameter must be zero when:

@enumerate a

@item indicating the rejection of a previously issuedN_CONN_REQ primitive; or

@item indicating the release of a NC that is already successfully established.

@end enumerate

When this field is non-zero and its value is the same as the sequence number
assigned to an unacknowledged @prim{N_CONN_IND}, it indicates that the NS
provider is canceling the unacknowledged @prim{N_CONN_IND}.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

The valid states are as follows:

@itemize @bullet
@item @psta{NS_WCON_CREQ},
@item @psta{NS_WRES_CIND},
@item @psta{NS_DATA_XFER},
@item @psta{NS_WCON_RREQ}, and
@item @psta{NS_WRES_RIND}.
@end itemize

@subsubheading New State

The new state is @psta{NS_IDLE} (except when number of outstanding connect
indications is greater than 1, in which case the resulting state is
@psta{NS_WRES_CIND}).

@page
@node CLNS Primitive Format and Rules
@section CLNS Primitive Format and Rules

@menu
* N_UNITDATA_REQ::
* N_UNITDATA_IND::
* N_UDERROR_IND::
@end menu

This section describes the format of the CLNS primitives and the rules
associated with these primitives.  The values of the QOS parameters associated
with each unit data transmission are selected via the @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ}
primitive.

@node N_UNITDATA_REQ
@subsection Unitdata Request

@subsubheading N_UNITDATA_REQ
@prindex N_UNITDATA_REQ

This primitive requests that the NS provider send the specified datagram to the
specified destination.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block followed by one or
more @msg{M_DATA} message blocks.

The structure of the @msg{M_PROTO} is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_UNITDATA_REQ */
    ulong DEST_length;      /* destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;      /* destination address offset */
    ulong RESERVED_field[2];    /* reserved field for DLPI
                                   compatibility */
} N_unitdata_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_unitdata_req_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@item DEST_length
Indicates the length of the destination address.

@item DEST_offset
Indicates the offset of the destination address from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.

@item RESERVED_field
This is a reserved field (for compatibility with DLPI) whose value must be set
to zero for both entries of the array.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_IDLE}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains unchanged.

@subsubheading Acknowledgements

@itemize ---

@item Successful:
There is no acknowledgement for the successful completion of this primitive.

@item Non-Fatal Error:
If a non-fatal error occurs, it is the responsibility of the NS provider to
report it via the @prim{N_UDERROR_IND} primitive.  The following non-fatal error
codes are allowed:

@table @perr

@item NBADADDR
The network address as specified in the primitive was in an incorrect format, or
the address contained illegal information.

@item NBADDATA
The amount of user data specified was outside the range supported by the NS
provider.

@item NOUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.

@end table

@item Fatal Error:
Fatal errors are indicated via an @msg{M_ERROR} @cite{STREAMS} message type
(issued to the NS user with the errno value of @errno{EPROTO}), which results in
the failure of all @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system calls on the stream.
The fatal errors are as follows:

@table @errno

@item EPROTO
This indicates one of the following unrecoverable protocol conditions:

@itemize ---

@item The network service interface was found to be in an incorrect state.

@item The amount of NS user data associated with the primitive defines a network
service data unit larger than that allowed by the NS provider.

@end itemize

@end table

@end itemize

@page
@node N_UNITDATA_IND
@subsection Unitdata Indication

@subsubheading N_UNITDATA_IND
@prindex N_UNITDATA_IND

This primitive indicates to the NS user that a datagram has been received from
the specified source address.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block followed by one or
more @msg{M_DATA} blocks containing at least one byte of data.  The format of
the @msg{M_PROTO} is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_UNITDATA_IND */
    ulong DEST_length;      /* destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;      /* destination address offset */
    ulong SRC_length;       /* source address length */
    ulong SRC_offset;       /* source address offset */
    ulong ERROR_type;       /* specifies the reason for the error */
} N_unitdata_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_unitdata_ind_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@item DEST_length
Indicates the length of the destination address.  The address is the same as in
the corresponding @prim{N_UNITDATA_REQ} primitive.

@item DEST_offset
Indicates the offset of the destination address from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.

@item SRC_length
Indicates the length of the source network address.  This address is the same as
the value associated with the stream on which the @prim{N_UNITDATA_REQ} was
issued.

@item SRC_offset
Indicates the offset of the source address from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.

@item ERROR_type
Specifies the reason for the error.  The possible values are:

@table @pval

@item N_UD_CONGESTION
This packet experienced congestion during its delivery.

@end table

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_IDLE}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains unchanged.

@page
@node N_UDERROR_IND
@subsection Unitdata Error Indication

@subsubheading N_UDERROR_IND
@prindex N_UDERROR_IND

This primitive indicates to the NS user that a datagram with the specified
destination address and QOS parameters has resulted in an error condition.

@subsubheading Format

The format of the message is one @msg{M_PROTO} message block, and its structure
is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_UDERROR_IND */
    ulong DEST_length;      /* destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;      /* destination address offset */
    ulong RESERVED_field;   /* reserved field for DLPI
                               compatibility */
    ulong ERROR_type;       /* error type */
} N_uderror_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_uderror_ind_t
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

@item DEST_length
Indicates the length of the destination address.  The address is the same as in
the corresponding @prim{N_UNITDATA_REQ} primitive.

@item DEST_offset
Indicates the offset of the destination address from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.

@item RESERVED_field
This field is reserved whose value must be set to zero.

@item ERROR_type
Specifies the reason for the error.

@end table

@subsubheading Valid States

This primitive is valid in state @psta{NS_IDLE}.

@subsubheading New State

The resulting state remains unchanged.

@node Diagnostics Requirements
@chapter Diagnostics Requirements

Two error handling facilities should be provided to the network service user:
one to handle non-fatal errors, and the other to handle fatal errors.

@section Non-Fatal Error Handling Facility

These are errors that do not change the state of the network service interface
as seen by the network service user, and provide the user the option of
reissuing the network service primitive with the corrected options
specification.  The non-fatal error handling is provided only to those
primitives that require acknowledgements, and uses the @prim{N_ERROR_ACK} to
report these errors.  These errors retain the state of the network service
interface the same as it was before the network provider received the primitive
that was in error.  Syntax errors and rule violations are reported via the
non-fatal error handling facility.

@section Fatal Error Handling Facility

These errors are issued by the NS provider when it detects errors that are not
correctable by the network service user, or if it is unable to report a
correctable error to the network service user.  Fatal errors are indicated via
the @cite{STREAMS} message type @msg{M_ERROR} with the
@cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system error @errno{EPROTO}.  The @msg{M_ERROR}
@cite{STREAMS} message type will result in the failure of all the
@cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} system calls on the stream.  The network service
user can recover from a fatal error by having all the processes close the files
associated with the stream, and then reopening them for processing.

@node Addendum for OSI Conformance
@unnumbered Addendum for OSI Conformance

This section describes the formats and rules that are specific to OSI.  The
addendum must be used along with the generic NPI as defined in the main document
when implementing a NS provider that will be configured with the OSI Transport
Layer.

@section Quality of Service: Model & Description
The ``Quality of Service'' characteristics apply to both CONS as well as CLNS.

@subsection QOS Overview
QOS (Quality of Service) is described in terms of QOS parameters.  There are two
types of QOS parameters:

@enumerate 1

@item Those that are ``negotiated'' on a per-connection basis during NC
establishment. (CLNS does not support end-to-end QOS parameter negotiation).

@item Those that are not negotiated and their values are selected/determined by
local management methods.

@end enumerate

@tabref{8} summarizes the supported parameters both for connection-mode and
connectionless network service.  For more details on the definition of the QOS
parameters, refer to CCITT X.213 (@pxref{X.213,,X.213}) and ISO 8348
(@pxref{ISO8348,,ISO8348}).

@tabfig{npi_tab8,8,Supported QoS Parameters}

@subsection QOS Parameter Formats

This section describes the formats of the QOS parameters for CONS and/or CLNS
services.  The requested QOS parameter values apply to complete NSDUs.

@subsubsection NC Establishment Delay

This parameter applies to CONS only.  It is defined as the maximum acceptable
delay between a @prim{N_CONN_REQ} and the corresponding @prim{N_CONN_CON}
primitive.  NC establishment delay is measured in milliseconds.

@subsubheading Format: 

@smallexample
@verbatim
long nc_estab_delay;        /* maximum NC establishment delay */
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@table @parm

@item nc_estab_delay
Is the maximum acceptable delay value for NC establishment.

@end table

@subsubsection NC Establishment Failure Probability

This parameter applies to CONS only.  NC Establishment Failure Probability is
the percent ratio (rounded to the nearest integer) of total NC establishment
failures to total NC establishment attempts in a measurement sample.  A
measurement sample consists of100 NC establishment attempts.

NC establishment failure occurs due to NS provider behaviour such as
mis-connection, NC refusal, and excessive delay.  NC establishment attempts that
fail due to NS user behaviour such as error, NC refusal, or excessive delay are
excluded in calculating NC establishment failure probability.

@subsubheading Format:

@smallexample
@verbatim
long nc_estab_fail_prob;    /* maximum NC estab failure probability 
                             */
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@table @parm

@item nc_estab_fail_prob
Is the maximum acceptable percent value (rounded to the nearest integer) for the
NC establishment failure probability.

@end table

@subsubsection Throughput

This parameter applies to CONS only, is specified separately for each direction
of transfer, and has end-to-end significance.  Throughput is defined in terms of
at least two successfully transferred NSDUs presented continuously to the NS
provider at the maximum rate the NS provider can continuously sustain, and
unconstrained by flow control applied by the receiving NS user.  Given a
sequence of ``n'' NSDUs (where is greater than or equal to two; suggested value
is 100), throughput is defined to be the smaller of:

@enumerate a

@item the number of NS user data octets contained in the last ``n-1'' NSDUs
divided bythe time between the first and the last @prim{N_DATA_REQ}s in the
sequence; and

@item the number of NS user data octets contained in the last ``n-1'' NSDUs
divided bythe time between the first and the last @prim{N_DATA_IND}s in the
sequence.

@end enumerate

Throughput should be measured and specified in bits per second.

@subsubheading Format:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    long thru_targ_value;
    long thru_min_value;
} thru_values_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex thru_values_t
@end smallexample

@table @parm

@item thru_targ_value
Specifies the requested QOS value for throughput for data transfer between the
two NS users.

@item thru_min_value
Specifies the requested lowest acceptable QOS value for throughput between the
two NS users.

@end table

@subsubsection Transit Delay

This parameter applies to CONS as well as CLNS.  Transit Delay is the elapsed
time between a @prim{N_DATA_REQ} and the corresponding @prim{N_DATA_IND}
(calculated on successfully transferred NSDUs only).  The pair of values
specified for an NC applies to both directions of transfer.  The specified
values are averages (based on 100 samples using a NSDU size of 128 bytes).
Transit Delay should be measured in milliseconds.

@subsubheading Format:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    long td_targ_value;
    long td_max_value;
} td_values_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex td_values_t
@end smallexample

@table @parm

@item td_targ_value
Specifies the desired QOS value for transit delay between the two NS users.

@item td_max_value
Specifies the maximum QOS value that the source NS user will agree for transit
delay between the two NS users.

@end table

@subsubsection Residual Error Rate

This parameter applies to both CONS as well as CLNS.  Residual Error Rate is the
percent ratio (rounded to the nearest integer) of total incorrect, lost, and
duplicate NSDUs to total NSDUs transferred across the NS boundary during a
measurement period.  The measurement period will be 3600 seconds.

@subsubheading Format:

@smallexample
@verbatim
long residual_error_rate;   /* maximum acceptable residual error
                               rate */
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@table @parm

@item residual_error_rate
Specifies the maximum acceptable percent value (rounded to the nearest integer)
of the residual error rate.

@end table

@subsubsection NC Resilience

This parameter applies to CONS only.  NC Resilience specifies the percent
probability (rounded to the nearest integer) of a NS provider invoked NC release
or a NS provider invoked reset during a specified time interval on an
established NC.  The time interval will be 3600 seconds.

@subsubheading Format:

@smallexample
@verbatim
long nc_resilience;         /* maximum acceptable nc resilience */
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@table @parm

@item nc_resilience
Specifies the maximum acceptable value for NC resilience.

@end table

@subsubsection Transfer Failure Probability

This parameter applies to CONS only.  It is the percent ratio (rounded to the
nearest integer) of total transfer failures to total transfer samples observed
during a performance measurement.  A transfer sample is a discrete observation
of NS provider performance in transferring NSDUs between specified sending and
receiving NS user.  A transfer sample will last for the duration of the NC.  A
transfer failure is a transfer sample in which the observed performance is worse
than the specified minimum acceptable level.  A transfer failure is identified
by comparing the measured values for the supported performance parameters with
specified transfer failure thresholds.  The three supported performance
parameters are throughput, transit delay, and residual error rate.

@subsubheading Format:

@smallexample
@verbatim
long xfer_fail_prob;        /* maximum xfer failure prob */
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@table @parm

@item xfer_fail_prob
Specifies the maximum acceptable percent value (rounded to the nearest integer)
for transfer failure probability.

@end table

@subsubsection NC Release Delay

This parameter applies to CONS only.  NC Release Delay is defined as the maximum
acceptable delay between a NS user invoked @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} and the
successful release of the NC at the peer NS user.  NC Release Delay is specified
independently for each NS user.  It does not apply in cases where NC release is
invoked by the NS provider.  NC release delay should be measured in
milliseconds.

@subsubheading Format:

@smallexample
@verbatim
long nc_rel_delay;          /* maximum nc release delay */
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@table @parm

@item nc_rel_delay
Is the maximum acceptable value for NC release delay.

@end table

@subsubsection NC Release Failure Probability

This parameter applies to CONS only.  It is the percent ratio (rounded to the
nearest integer) of total NC release requests resulting in release failure to
total NC release requests included in a measurement sample.  A measurement
sample consists of a 100NC release requests.  This parameter is specified
independently for each NS user.

A release failure is defined to occur for a particular NS user, if that user
does not receive a @prim{N_DISCON_IND} within a specified maximum NC release
delay of the NS user issuing the @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} (given that the former NS
user has not issued a @prim{N_DISCON_REQ}).

@subsubheading Format:

@smallexample
@verbatim
long nc_rel_fail_prob;      /* maximum nc rel fail probability */
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@table @parm

@item nc_rel_fail_prob
Is the maximum acceptable percent value (rounded to the nearest integer) of NC
release failure probability.

@end table

@subsubsection Protection

This parameter applies to both CONS and CLNS.  It specifies the extent to which
the NS provider attempts to prevent unauthorized monitoring or manipulation of
NS user originated information.

@smallexample
@verbatim
/* Types of protection */
#define N_NO_PROT               0x00000000L     /* no protection */
#define N_PASSIVE_PROT          0x00000001L     /* protection
                                                   against passive
                                                   monitoring */
#define N_ACTIVE_PROT           0x00000002L     /* protection
                                                   against active
                                                   monitoring */
#define N_ACTIVE_PASSIVE_PROT   0x00000003L     /* maximum
                                                   protection */
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

Four protection options are provided:

@enumerate 1

@item No protection features;

@item Protection against passive monitoring;

@item Protection against modification, replay, addition, or deletion

@item Both 2 and 3.

@end enumerate

@subsubheading Format:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    long protect_targ_value;    /* target protection */
    long protect_min_value; /* minimum protection */
} protection_values_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex protection_values_t
@end smallexample

@table @parm

@item protect_targ_value
Specifies the target protection of the NS user originated information.

@item protect_min_value
Specifies the lowest quality acceptable of protection of the NS user originated
information.

@end table

@subsubsection Priority

This parameter applies to both CONS and CLNS.

It specifies the target priority of:

@enumerate a

@item an NSDU in relation to any other NSDUs (for CLNS);

@item a NC (for CONS).  The number of priority levels is limited to 15 (where
level 1 is the highest priority and level 15 is the lowest priority).

@end enumerate

@subsubheading Format:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    long priority_targ_value;   /* target priority */
    long priority_min_value;    /* minimum priority */
} priority_values_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex priority_values_t
@end smallexample

@table @parm

@item priority_targ_value
Specifies the target NC priority level.

@item priority_min_value
Specifies the lowest quality acceptable of the NC priority level.

@end table

@subsubsection Maximum Acceptable Cost

This parameter applies to both CONS and CLNS.  It specifies the maximum
acceptable cost in local currency (composed of communications and end-system
resource costs), or indicates to the NS provider that it should choose the least
expensive means available to it.

@subsubheading Format

@smallexample
@verbatim
long max_accept_cost;       /* acceptable cost maximum */

/* Choose least expensive means */
#define N_LEAST_EXPENSIVE 0x00000000L   /* choose least expensive
                                           means */
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@table @parm

@item max_accept_cost
Specifies the maximum acceptable cost in local currency.

@end table

@subsection QOS Data Structures

The quality of services parameters are organized into six different structures
for simplicity:

@table @pval

@item N_QOS_CO_RANGE1

Quality of service range requested for connection-mode service as used with the
@prim{N_CONN_REQ} and @prim{N_CONN_IND} primitives.

@item N_QOS_CO_SEL1

Quality of service values selected for the connection-mode service as used with
the @prim{N_CONN_RES} and @prim{N_CONN_CON} primitives.

@item N_QOS_CL_RANGE1

Range of quality of service values for connectionless-mode service as specified
with the @parm{QOS_range_length} and @parm{QOS_range_offset} parameters of
the @prim{N_INFO_ACK} primitive.

@item N_QOS_CL_SEL1

Quality of service values supported/selected for connectionless-mode service as
specified with the @parm{QOS_length} and @parm{QOS_offset} parameters of the
@prim{N_INFO_ACK} and the @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} primitives.

@item N_QOS_CO_OPT_RANGE1

Range of quality of service values for connection-mode service as specified with
the @parm{QOS_range_length} and @parm{QOS_range_offset} parameters of the
@prim{N_INFO_ACK} primitive.

@item N_QOS_CO_OPT_SEL1

Default quality of service values supported/selected for connection-mode service
as specified with the @parm{QOS_length} and @parm{QOS_offset} parameters of
the @prim{N_INFO_ACK} and the @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} primitives.

@end table

@subsubsection Structure N_QOS_CO_RANGE1
@vrindex N_QOS_CO_RANGE1

Structure @type{N_qos_co_range1} defines the QOS parameters that are transferred
between the source and destination NS users for a NC.  The format of this
structure is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong n_qos_type;       /* always N_QOS_CO_RANGE */
    thru_values_t src_throughput_range; /* source throughput range */
    thru_values_t dest_throughput_range;        /* dest throughput
                                                   range */
    td_values_t transit_delay_range;    /* transit delay range */
    protection_values_t protection_range;       /* protection range 
                                                 */
    priority_values_t priority_range;   /* priority target */
} N_qos_co_range1_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_qos_co_range1_t
@end smallexample

This structure should be used in the @parm{QOS_length} and @parm{QOS_offset}
fields of the following NPI primitives:

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_CONN_REQ}

@item @prim{N_CONN_IND}

@end itemize

@subsubsection Structure N_QOS_CO_SEL1
@vrindex N_QOS_CO_SEL1

Structure @type{N_qos_co_sel1} defines the QOS parameters that are transferred
between the destination and source NS users for a NC.  The format of this
structure is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong n_qos_type;       /* always N_QOS_CO_SEL */
    long src_throughput_sel;    /* source throughput selected */
    long dest_throughput_sel;   /* destination throughput selected */
    long transit_delay_sel; /* transit delay selected */
    long protection_sel;    /* NC protection selected */
    long priority_sel;      /* NC priority selected */
} N_qos_co_sel1_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_qos_co_sel1_t
@end smallexample

This structure should be used in the @parm{QOS_length} and @parm{QOS_offset}
fields of the following NPI primitives:

@itemize @bullet

@item @prim{N_CONN_RES}

@item @prim{N_CONN_CON}

@end itemize

@subsubsection Structure N_QOS_CL_RANGE1
@vrindex N_QOS_CL_RANGE1

Structure @type{N_qos_cl_range1} defines the range of QOS parameter values that
are supported by the NS provider.  The format of the structure is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong n_qos_type;       /* always N_QOS_CL_RANGE */
    td_values_t transit_delay_max;      /* maximum transit delay */
    long residual_error_rate;   /* residual error rate */
    protection_values_t protection_range;       /* target
                                                   protection */
    priority_values_t priority_range;   /* target priority */
    long max_accept_cost;   /* maximum acceptable cost */
} N_qos_cl_range1_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_qos_cl_range1_t
@end smallexample

This structure should be used in the:

@itemize @bullet

@item @parm{QOS_range_length} and @parm{QOS_range_offset} fields of the
@prim{N_INFO_ACK} primitive;

@end itemize

@subsubsection Structure N_QOS_CL_SEL1
@vrindex N_QOS_CL_SEL1

Structure @type{N_qos_cl_sel1} defines the QOS parameters values that will apply
to each unitdata transmission between the CLNS users.  The format of the
structure is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong n_qos_type;       /* always N_QOS_CL_sel */
    long transit_delay_max; /* maximum transit delay */
    long residual_error_rate;   /* residual error rate */
    long protection_sel;    /* protection selected */
    long priority_sel;      /* priority selected */
    long max_accept_cost;   /* maximum acceptable cost */
} N_qos_cl_sel1_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_qos_cl_sel1_t
@end smallexample

This structure should be used in the:

@itemize @bullet

@item @parm{QOS_length} and @parm{QOS_offset} fields of the
@prim{N_INFO_ACK} primitive;

@item @parm{QOS_length} and @parm{QOS_offset} fields of the
@prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} primitive.

@end itemize

@subsubsection Structure N_QOS_CO_OPT_RANGE1
@vrindex N_QOS_CO_OPT_RANGE1

Structure @type{N_qos_opt_range1} defines the range of the default QOS parameter
values that are supported by the NS provider.  This allows the NS user to select
values within the range supported by the NS provider.  The format of the
structure is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong n_qos_type;       /* always N_QOS_CO_OPT_RANGE */
    thru_values_t src_throughput;       /* source throughput values 
                                         */
    thru_values_t dest_throughput;      /* dest throughput values */
    td_values_t transit_delay;  /* transit delay values */
    long nc_estab_delay;    /* NC establishment delay */
    long nc_estab_fail_prob;    /* NC estab failure probability */
    long residual_error_rate;   /* residual error rate */
    long xfer_fail_prob;    /* transfer failure probability */
    long nc_resilience;     /* NC resilience */
    long nc_rel_delay;      /* NC release delay */
    long nc_rel_fail_prob;  /* NC release fail probability */
    protection_values_t protection_range;       /* protection range 
                                                 */
    priority_values_t priority_range;   /* priority range */
    long max_accept_cost;   /* maximum acceptable cost */
} N_qos_co_opt_range1_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_qos_co_opt_range1_t
@end smallexample

This structure should be used in the:

@itemize @bullet

@item @parm{QOS_range_length} and @parm{QOS_range_offset} fields of the
@prim{N_INFO_ACK} primitive;

@end itemize

@subsubsection Structure N_QOS_CO_OPT_SEL1
@vrindex N_QOS_CO_OPT_SEL1

Structure @type{N_qos_opt_sel1} defines the selected QOS parameter values.  The
format of the structure is as follows:

@smallexample
@verbatim
typedef struct {
    ulong n_qos_type;       /* always N_QOS_CO_OPT_SEL */
    thru_values_t src_throughput;       /* source throughput values 
                                         */
    thru_values_t dest_throughput;      /* dest throughput values */
    td_values_t transit_delay;  /* transit delay values */
    long nc_estab_delay;    /* NC establishment delay */
    long nc_estab_fail_prob;    /* NC estab failure probability */
    long residual_error_rate;   /* residual error rate */
    long xfer_fail_prob;    /* transfer failure probability */
    long nc_resilience;     /* NC resilience */
    long nc_rel_delay;      /* NC release delay */
    long nc_rel_fail_prob;  /* NC release failure probability */
    long protection_sel;    /* protection selected */
    long priority_sel;      /* priority selected */
    long max_accept_cost;   /* maximum acceptable cost */
} N_qos_co_opt_sel1_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_qos_co_opt_sel1_t;
@end smallexample

This structure should be used in the:

@itemize @bullet

@item @parm{QOS_length} and @parm{QOS_offset} fields of the
@prim{N_INFO_ACK} primitive;

@item @parm{QOS_length} and @parm{QOS_offset} fields of the
@prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} primitive.

@end itemize

@page
@section NPI Primitives Rules for OSI Conformance

The following are the rules that apply to the NPI primitives for OSI
compatibility.

@subsection Local Management Primitives

@subsubsection N_INFO_ACK
@prindex N_INFO_ACK

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item NSDU_size
A value greater than zero specifies the maximum size of a Network Service Data
Unit (NSDU); a value of @samp{0} specifies that the transfer of normal data is
not supported by the NS provider,and a value of @samp{-1} specifies that there
is no limit on the size of a NSDU.

@item ENSDU_size
A value between 1 and 32 inclusive specifies the maximum size of an Expedited
Network Service Data Unit (ENSDU); a value of @samp{0} specifies that the
transfer of expedited data is not supported by the NS provider.

@item CDATA_size
A value between 1 and 128 inclusive specifies the maximum number of octets of
data that may be associated with connection establishment primitives.  A value
of @samp{0} specifies that the NS provider does not allow data to be sent with
connection establishment primitives.  When used in an OSI conforming
environment, @parm{CDATA_size} shall always equal 128.

@item DDATA_size
A value between 1 and 128 inclusive specifies the maximum number of octets of
data that may be associated with the disconnect primitives; a value of @samp{0}
specifies that the NS provider does not allow data to be sent with the
disconnect primitives.  When used in an OSI conforming environment,
@parm{DDATA_size} shall always equal 128.

@item ADDR_size
A value between 1 and 40 indicates the maximum size of a network address in
decimal digits.  When used in an OSI conforming environment, @parm{ADDR_size}
shall always equal 40 in order to accommodate a full NSAP address.

@item QOS_length
Indicates the length in bytes of the default/negotiated/selected values of the
QOS parameters.  The applicable QOS parameters are defined in the following
structures:

@enumerate a

@item @pval{N_QOS_CO_OPT_SEL1} for CONS; and

@item @pval{N_QOS_CL_SEL1} for CLNS.

@end enumerate

In the connection-mode environment, when this primitive is invoked before the NC
is established on the stream, the values returned specify the the default values
supported by the NS provider.  When this primitive is invoked after a NC has
been established on the stream, the values returned indicate the negotiated
values for the QOS parameters.  In the connectionless environment, these values
represent the default or the selected QOS parameter values.

In case a QOS parameter is not supported by the NS Provider, a value of
@pval{QOS_UNKNOWN} will be returned.  In the case where no QOS parameters are
supported by the NS provider, the length of this field will be zero.

@item QOS_range_length
Indicates the length in bytes, of the available range of QOS parameters values
supported by the NS provider.  These ranges are used by the NS user to select
QOS parameter values that are valid with the NS provider.

The applicable QOS parameters are defined in the following structures:

@enumerate a

@item @pval{N_QOS_CO_OPT_RANGE1} for CONS; and

@item @pval{N_QOS_CL_RANGE1} for CLNS.

@end enumerate

QOS parameter values are selected, or the default values altered via the
@prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} primitive.  In the connection-mode environment, the values
for end-to-end QOS parameters may be specified with the @prim{N_CONN} primitives
for negotiation.  If the NS provider does not support a certain QOS parameter,
its value will be set to @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  In the case where no QOS
parameters are supported by the NS provider, the length of this field will be
zero.

@item NIDU_size
This indicates the amount of user data that may be present in aN_DATA primitive.
The @parm{NIDU_size} should not be larger than the @parm{NSDU_size}
specification.

@item SERV_type
Specifies the service type supported by the NS provider.  The possible values
can be @pval{N_CONS}, @pval{N_CLNS}, (or both by using
@pval{N_CONS}|@pval{N_CLNS}).  If the @parm{SERV_type} is @pval{N_CLNS}, the
following rules will apply:

@itemize ---

@item The @parm{ENSDU_size}, @parm{CDATA_size}, @parm{DDATA_size}, and
DEFAULT_rc_sel fields are not used and their values should be set to @samp{0};

@item The @parm{NSDU_size} should be the same as the @parm{NIDU_size}.

@end itemize

@item NODU_size
The @parm{NODU_size} specifies the optimal NSDU size in octets of an NSDU
given the current routing information.

@item PROTOID_length
The length of the protocol identifiers to be bound.

@item PROTOID_offset
The offset of the protocol identifiers to be bound, from the beginning of the
block.

@end table

@subsubsection N_OPTMGMT_REQ
@prindex N_OPTMGMT_REQ

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item QOS_length
Indicates the length of the default values of the QOS parameters as selected by
the NS user.  In the connection-mode environment these values will be used in
subsequent @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitives on the stream that do not specify values
for these QOS parameters.  In the connection-less environment, these values
represent the selected QOS values that would apply to each unit data
transmission.  The applicable QOS parameters are defined in the following
structures:

@enumerate a

@item @pval{N_QOS_CO_OPT_SEL1} for CONS; and

@item @pval{N_QOS_CL_SEL1} for CLNS.

@end enumerate

If the NS user cannot determine the value of a QOS parameter,its value should be
set to @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  If the NS user does not specify any QOS parameter
values, the length of this field should be set to zero.

@end table

@subsection CONS Connection Establishment Phase Rules for QOS Parameter Negotiation

The negotiation for NC throughput and NC transit-delay QOS parameters
are conducted as follows:

@enumerate a

@item in the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitive, the source NS user specifies two
values for each negotiable QOS parameter:

@enumerate 1

@item a ``target'' which is the QOS value desired; and

@item a ``lowest acceptable'' QOS value to which the source NS user will agree;

@end enumerate

The value of each of these parameters must be within the limit of the allowable
values defined for the network service.  ``Default'' values for these parameters
are supported by the NS provider.  The default values may be selected by the NS
user via the @prim{N_OPTMGMT_REQ} primitive.

@item if the NS provider agrees to provide a value of QOS which is in the range
between the ``target'' and the ``lowest acceptable'' QOS values, inclusive, of
the @prim{N_CONN_REQ}, then the NS provider specifies two parameters in the
@prim{N_CONN_IND} issued to the destination NS user:

@enumerate 1

@item an ``available'' value which is the QOS value the NS provider is willing
to provide; and

@item a ``lowest acceptable'' QOS value which is identical to the ``lowest
acceptable'' value specified in the @prim{N_CONN_REQ}; (if the NS provider does
not agree to provide QOS in the given range, then the NC establishment request
is rejected);

@end enumerate

@item if the destination NS user agrees to a QOS value which is in the range
between the ``available'' and the ``lowest acceptable'' QOS values, inclusive,
of the @prim{N_CONN_IND}, then the destination NS user specifies a single
parameter, ``selected'' in the @prim{N_CONN_RES}; this parameter is the QOS
value the destination NS user agrees to; (if the destination NS user does not
agree to a QOS in the given range, then the NC establishment request is
rejected);

@item the NS provider adopts the QOS value for the NC which was specified by the
destination NS user and supplies this as a single parameter, ``selected'', in
the @prim{N_CONN_CON} primitive.

@end enumerate

@itemize @bullet

@item The negotiation for the NC protection parameter is conducted as follows:

@enumerate a

@item In the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitive, the calling NS user specifies values
for the ``Target'' and ``Lowest Quality Acceptable'' sub-parameters; permitted
value assignments are:

@table @asis

@item Case1:
both the ``Target'' and ``Lowest Quality Acceptable'' are ``unspecified'';

@item Case2:
values other than ``unspecified'' are specified for both ``Target'' and ``Lowest
Quality Acceptable'';

@item Case3:
a value other than ``unspecified'' is specified for ``Target'' and the ``Lowest
Quality Acceptable'' is ``unspecified''.

@end table

NOTE: In case where ``Target'' is ``unspecified'', the ``Lowest Quality
Acceptable'' must also be ``unspecified''.

@item If the NS provider does not support a choice of NC protection levels, the
value of the ``Target'' parameter is conveyed by the NS provider and passed to
the called NS user unchanged as the ``Available'' sub-parameter in the
@prim{N_CONN_IND} primitive;

@item If the NS provider does support a choice of NC protection levels, then:

@enumerate 1

@item In Case1, the NS provider determines the QOS value to be offered on the NC
and specifies it in the ``Available'' sub-parameter in the @prim{N_CONN_IND}
primitive;

@item In Case2 and Case3, if the NS provider does not agree to provide a QOS in
the requested range, then the NC establishment attempt is rejected as described
in clause 13.5 of ISO 8348 (@pxref{ISO8348,,ISO8348}).  If the NS provider does
agree to provide a QOS in the requested range, then in the @prim{N_CONN_IND}
primitive, the ``Available'' sub-parameter specifies the highest QOS value
within the range which the NS provider is willing to provide.

@end enumerate

@item The value of the ``Lowest Quality Acceptable'' sub-parameter in the
@prim{N_CONN_IND} primitive is identical to that in the @prim{N_CONN_REQ}
primitive;

@item If the value of the ``Available'' sub-parameter of the @prim{N_CONN_IND}
primitive is ``unspecified'' then:

@enumerate 1

@item if the called NS user does not agree to accept establishment of a NC with
this unspecified quality, the NS user rejects the NC establishment attempt as
described in clause 13.4 of ISO 8348 (@pxref{ISO8348,,ISO8348});

@item if the called NS user does agree, then the NS user specifies the value
``unspecified'' in the ``Selected'' sub-parameter of the @prim{N_CONN_RES}
primitive.

@end enumerate

@item If the value of the ``Available'' sub-parameter in the @prim{N_CONN_IND}
primitive is not ``unspecified'' then:

@enumerate 1

@item if the called NS user does not agree to a QOS in the range identified by
the ``Available'' and ``Lowest Quality Acceptable'' sub-parameters of the
@prim{N_CONN_IND} primitive, then the NS user rejects the NC establishment
attempt as described in clause 13.4 of ISO 8348 (@pxref{ISO8348,,ISO8348});

@item if the called NS user does agree to a QOS in the identified range, then
the NS user specifies the agreed value in the ``Selected'' sub-parameter of the
@prim{N_CONN_RES} primitive.

@end enumerate

@item In the @prim{N_CONN_CON} primitive, the ``Selected'' sub-parameter has a
value identical to that of ``Selected'' in the @prim{N_CONN_RES} primitive.

@end enumerate

@item The negotiation of the NC priority parameter is conducted as follows:

@enumerate a

@item In the @prim{N_CONN_REQ} primitive, the calling NS user specifies values
for the ``Target'' and ``Lowest Quality Acceptable'' sub-parameters; permitted
value assignments are:

@table @asis

@item Case1:
both the ``Target'' and ``Lowest Quality Acceptable'' are ``unspecified'';

@item Case2:
values other than ``unspecified'' are specified for both ``Target'' and ``Lowest
Quality Acceptable'';

@item Case3:
a value other than ``unspecified'' is specified for ``Target'' and the ``Lowest
Quality Acceptable'' is ``unspecified''.

@end table

NOTE: In case where ``Target'' is ``unspecified'', the ``Lowest Quality
Acceptable'' must also be ``unspecified''.

@item If the NS provider does not support a choice of NC priority levels, the
value of the ``Target'' parameter is conveyed by the NS provider and passed to
the called NS user unchanged as the ``Available'' sub-parameter in the
@prim{N_CONN_IND} primitive;

@item If the NS provider does support a choice of NC priority levels, then:

@enumerate 1

@item In Case1, the NS provider determines the QOS value to be offered on the NC
and specifies it in the ``Available'' sub-parameter in the @prim{N_CONN_IND}
primitive;

@item In Case2 and Case3, if the NS provider does not agree to provide a QOS in
the requested range, then the NC establishment attempt is rejected as described
in clause 13.5 of ISO 8348 (@pxref{ISO8348,,ISO8348}).  If the NS provider does
agree to provide a QOS in the requested range, then in the @prim{N_CONN_IND}
primitive, the ``Available'' sub-parameter specifies the highest QOS value
within the range which the NS provider is willing to provide.

@end enumerate

@item The value of the ``Lowest Quality Acceptable'' sub-parameter in the
@prim{N_CONN_IND} primitive is identical to that in the @prim{N_CONN_REQ}
primitive;

@item If the value of the ``Available'' sub-parameter of the @prim{N_CONN_IND}
primitive is ``unspecified'' then:

@enumerate 1

@item if the called NS user does not agree to accept establishment of a NC with
this unspecified quality, the NS user rejects the NC establishment attempt as
described in clause 13.4 of ISO 8348 (@pxref{ISO8348,,ISO8348});

@item if the called NS user does agree, then the NS user specifies the value
``unspecified'' in the ``Selected'' sub-parameter of the @prim{N_CONN_RES}
primitive.

@end enumerate

@item If the value of the ``Available'' sub-parameter in the @prim{N_CONN_IND}
primitive is not ``unspecified'' then:

@enumerate 1

@item if the called NS user does not agree to a QOS in the range identified by
the ``Available'' and ``Lowest Quality Acceptable'' sub-parameters of the
@prim{N_CONN_IND} primitive, then the NS user rejects the NC establishment
attempt as described in clause 13.4 of ISO 8348 (@pxref{ISO8348,,ISO8348});

@item if the called NS user does agree to a QOS in the identified range, then
the NS user specifies the agreed value in the ``Selected'' sub-parameter of the
@prim{N_CONN_RES} primitive.

@end enumerate

@item In the @prim{N_CONN_CON} primitive, the ``Selected'' sub-parameter has a
value identical to that of ``Selected'' in the @prim{N_CONN_RES} primitive.

@end enumerate

@end itemize

@subsubheading Rules for QOS Parameter Selection

When a NS user/provider cannot determine the value of a QOS field, it should
return a value of @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.

@smallexample
@verbatim
#define QOS_UNKNOWN -1
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@subsubheading Rules for Receipt Confirmation Selection

@itemize @bullet

@item The receipt confirmation selection parameter values on the various
primitives are related such that:

@enumerate 1

@item on the @prim{N_CONN_REQ}, either of the defined values may occur (namely,
``use of receipt confirmation'', or ``no use of receipt confirmation'').

@item on the @prim{N_CONN_IND}, the value is either equal to the value on the
request primitive, or is ``no use of receipt confirmation''.

@item on the @prim{N_CONN_RES}, the value is either equal to the value on the
indication primitive or is ``no use of receipt confirmation''.

@item on the @prim{N_CONN_CON}, the value is equal to the value on the response
primitive.

@end enumerate

@item Since the NS users and the NS provider must agree to the use of receipt
confirmation selection, there are four possible cases of negotiation of receipt
confirmation on an NC:

@enumerate 1

@item if the source NS user does not request it---it is not used;

@item if the source NS user requests it but the NS provider does not provide it
--- it is not used;

@item if the source NS user requests it and the NS provider agrees to provide
it,but the destination NS user does not agree to its use -- it is not used;

@item if the source NS user requests it, the NS provider agrees to provide it,
and the destination NS user agrees to its use -- it can be used.  Rules for
Expedited Data Selection

@end enumerate

@item The expedited data selection parameter values on the various primitives
are related such that:

@enumerate 1

@item on the @prim{N_CONN_REQ}, either of the defined values may occur, (namely
``use of expedited data'' or ``no use of expedited data'');

@item on the @prim{N_CONN_IND}, the value is either equal to the value on the
request primitive, or is ``no use of expedited data'';

@item on the @prim{N_CONN_RES}, the value is either equal to the value on the
indication primitive, or is ``no use of expedited data'';

@item on the @prim{N_CONN_CON}, the value is equal to the value on the response
primitive.

@end enumerate

@item Since the NS users and the NS provider must agree to the use of expedited
data selection, there are four possible cases of negotiation of expedited data
on an NC:

@enumerate 1

@item if the source NS user does not request it---it is not used;

@item if the source NS user requests it but the NS provider does not provide
it---it is not used;

@item if the source NS user requests it and the NS provider agrees to provide
it, but the destination NS user does not agree to its use---it is not used;

@item if the source NS user requests it, the NS provider agrees to provide it,
and the destination NS user agrees to its use---it can be used.

@end enumerate

@end itemize

@subsubsection N_CONN_REQ
@prindex N_CONN_REQ

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item QOS_length
Indicates the length of the QOS parameters values that apply to the NC being
requested.

The applicable QOS parameters are defined in the following structure:

@enumerate a

@item N_QOS_CO_RANGE1

@end enumerate

If the NS user cannot determine the value of a QOS parameter, its value should
be set to @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  If the NS user does not specify any QOS parameter
values, the length of this field should be set to zero.

@end table

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval

@item REC_CONF_OPT
The receipt confirmation selection parameter indicates whether receipt
confirmation service is desired by the calling NS user on the NC.  The receipt
confirmation service must be provided in the network service to be used on the
NC.  When set, it indicates ``use of receipt confirmation'', and when not set it
indicates ``no use of receipt confirmation''.

@item EX_DATA_OPT
The expedited data selection parameter indicates whether the expedited data
service is desired by the calling NS user on the NC.  The expedited data
transfer service must be provided by the NS provider for it to be used on the
NC.  When set, it indicates ``use of expedited data'', and when not set it
indicates ``no use of expedited data''.

@end table

@subsubsection N_CONN_IND
@prindex N_CONN_IND

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item QOS_length
Indicates the length of the QOS parameters values that are negotiated during NC
establishment.

The applicable QOS parameters are defined in the following structure:

@enumerate a

@item N_QOS_CO_RANGE1

@end enumerate

If the NS provider does not support or cannot determine the value of a QOS
parameter, its value will be set to @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  If the NS provider does
not specify any QOS parameter values, the length of this field should be set to
zero.

@item QOS_offset
Indicates the offset of the QOS parameters from the beginning of the
@msg{M_PROTO} message block.

@end table

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval

@item REC_CONF_OPT
The receipt confirmation selection parameter indicates whether the receipt
confirmation service is available on the NC and the calling NS user desires its
use.  The receipt confirmation service must be provided in the network service
to be used on the NC.  When set, it indicates ``use of receipt confirmation'',
and when not set, it indicates ``no use of receipt confirmation''.  The value on
the @prim{N_CONN_IND} is either equal to the value on the request primitive or
is ``no use of receipt confirmation''.

@item EX_DATA_OPT
The expedited data selection parameter indicates whether the expedited data
transfer service is available on the NC and the calling NS user desires its use.
The expedited data transfer service must be provided by the NS provider for it
to be used on the NC.  When set, it indicates ``use of expedited data'' or ``no
use of expedited data''.  The value on the @prim{N_CONN_IND} is either equal to
the value on the request primitive or is ``no use of expedited data''.

@end table

@subsubsection N_CONN_RES
@prindex N_CONN_RES

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item QOS_length
Indicates the length of the QOS parameters values that are negotiated during NC
establishment.  The applicable QOS parameters are defined in the following
structure:

@enumerate a

@item N_QOS_CO_SEL1

@end enumerate

If the NS user does not agree to the QOS values, it will reject the NC
establishment by invoking a @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive (the originator
parameter in the @prim{N_DISCON_REQ} primitive will indicate NS user invoked
release).  If the NS user cannot determine the value of a QOS parameter, its
value should be set to @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  If the NS user does not specify any
QOS parameter values, the length of this field should be set to zero.

@end table

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval

@item REC_CONF_OPT
The receipt confirmation selection parameter indicates whether the receipt
confirmation service can be used on the NC.  The receipt confirmation service
must be provided in the network service to be used on the NC.  When set, it
indicates ``use of receipt confirmation'', and when not set it indicates ``no
use of receipt confirmation''.  The value on the @prim{N_CONN_RES} is either
equal to the value on the indication primitive or is ``no use of receipt
confirmation''.

@item EX_DATA_OPT
The expedited data selection parameter indicates whether the expedited data
transfer service can be used on the NC.  The expedited data transfer service
must be provided by the NS provider for it to be used on the NC.  When set, it
indicates ``use of expedited data'', and when not set, it indicates ``no use of
expedited data''.  The value on the @prim{N_CONN_RES} is either equal to the
value on the indication primitive or is ``no use of expedited data''.

@end table

@subsubsection N_CONN_CON
@prindex N_CONN_CON

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item QOS_length
Indicates the length of the QOS parameters values selected by the responding NS
user.  The applicable QOS parameters are defined in the following structure:

@enumerate a

@item N_QOS_CO_SEL1

@end enumerate

If the NS provider does not support or cannot determine the selected value of a
QOS parameter, its value will be set to @pval{QOS_UNKNOWN}.  If the NS provider
does not specify any QOS parameter values, the length of this field should be
set to zero.

@end table

@subsubheading Flags

@table @pval

@item REC_CONF_OPT
The receipt confirmation selection parameter indicates whether the receipt
confirmation service can be used on the NC.  The receipt confirmation service
must be provided in the network service to be used on the NC.  When set, it
indicates ``use of receipt confirmation'', and when not set it indicates ``no
use of receipt confirmation''.  The value on the @prim{N_CONN_CON} is equal to
the value on the response primitive.

@item EX_DATA_OPT
The expedited data selection parameter indicates whether the expedited data
transfer service can be used on the NC.  The expedited data transfer service
must be provided by the NS provider for it to be used on the NC.  When set, it
indicates ``use of expedited data'', and when not set, it indicates ``no use of
expedited data''.  The value on the @prim{N_CONN_CON} is equal to the value on
the response primitive.

@end table

@subsection CONS Reset Service

@subsubsection N_RESET_REQ
@prindex N_RESET_REQ

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item RESET_reason

Gives information indicating the cause of the reset.  Rules governing the value
of the RESET_reason parameter For an @prim{N_RESET_REQ}, the reason shall always
indicate @pval{N_USER_RESYNC}.

@end table

@subsubsection N_RESET_IND
@prindex N_RESET_IND

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item RESET_orig
This parameter indicates the source of the reset.

Reset Originator

@table @pval

@item N_PROVIDER
NS provider originated reset

@item N_USER
NS user originated reset

@item N_UNDEFINED
reset originator undefined

@end table

@item RESET_reason
Gives information indicating the cause of the reset.

@end table

@subsubheading Rules governing the value of the RESET_reason parameter

The value conveyed in this parameter will be as follows:

@enumerate a

@item when the originator parameter indicates an NS provider invoked reset;
the parameter is one of:

@table @pval

@item N_CONGESTION
reset due to congestion;

@item N_RESET_UNSPECIFIED
reset-reason unspecified.

@end table

@item when the originator parameter indicates an NS user invoked reset, the
value is:

@table @pval

@item N_USER_RESYNC
user resynchronization.

@end table

@item when the originator parameter has the value ``undefined'', then the value
of the reason parameter is:

@table @pval

@item N_REASON_UNDEFINED
reset reason undefined

@end table

@end enumerate

@subsection CONS NC Release Phase

@subsubsection N_DISCON_REQ
@prindex N_DISCON_REQ

@subsubheading Parameters:

@table @parm

@item DISCON_reason
Gives information about the cause of the release.

@end table

@subsubheading Rules governing the value of the DISCON_reason parameter

The value conveyed in the parameter will be as follows:

@table @pval

@item N_DISC_NORMAL
``disconnection-normal condition''

@item N_DISC_ABNORMAL
``disconnection-abnormal condition''

@item N_REJ_P
``connection rejection-permanent condition''

@item N_REJ_T
``connection rejection-transient condition''

@item N_REJ_QOS_UNAVAIL_P
``connection rejection-QOS not available/permanent condition''

@item N_REJ_QOS_UNAVAIL_T
``connection rejection-QOS not available/transient condition''

@item N_REJ_INCOMPAT_INFO
``connection rejection-incompatible information in NS user data''

@item N_REJ_UNSPECIFIED
``connection rejection-reason unspecified''

@end table

@subsubsection N_DISCON_IND
@prindex N_DISCON_IND

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item DISCON_orig
Indicates the source of the NC release.  Its value are as follows:

@table @pval

@item N_PROVIDER
NS provider originated disconnect

@item N_USER
NS user originated disconnect

@item N_UNDEFINED
disconnect originator undefined

@end table

The value ``undefined'' is not permitted when an @prim{N_DISCON_IND} is issued
by an NS user or the NS provider in order to reject an NC establishment attempt.

@item DISCON_reason
Gives information about the cause of the release.

@end table

@subsubheading Rules governing the value of the DISCON_reason parameter

The value conveyed in the parameter will be as follows:

@enumerate a

@item When the originator parameter indicates an NS provider invoked release,
the value is one of:

@table @pval

@item N_DISC_P
``disconnection-permanent condition''

@item N_DISC_T
``disconnection-transient condition''

@item N_REJ_NSAP_UNKNOWN
``connection rejection-NSAP address unknown (permanent condition)''

@item N_REJ_NSAP_UNREACH_P
``connection rejection-NSAP unreachable(permanent condition)''

@item N_REJ_NSAP_UNREACH_T
``connection rejection-NSAP unreachable(transient condition)''

@item N_REJ_QOS_UNAVAIL_P
``connection rejection-QOS not available/permanent condition''

@item N_REJ_QOS_UNAVAIL_T
``connection rejection-QOS not available/transient condition''

@item N_REJ_UNSPECIFIED
``connection rejection-reason unspecified''

@end table

@item When the originator parameter indicates an NS user invoked release, the
value is one of:

@table @pval

@item N_DISC_NORMAL
``disconnection-normal condition''

@item N_DISC_ABNORMAL
``disconnection-abnormal condition''

@item N_REJ_P
``connection rejection-permanent condition''

@item N_REJ_T
``connection rejection-transient condition''

@item N_REJ_QOS_UNAVAIL_P
``connection rejection-QOS not available/permanent condition''

@item N_REJ_QOS_UNAVAIL_T
``connection rejection-QOS not available/transient condition''

@item N_REJ_INCOMPAT_INFO
``connection rejection-incompatible information in NS user data''

@item N_REJ_UNSPECIFIED
``connection rejection-reason unspecified''

@end table

@item When the originator parameter value is undefined, then the value of the
reason parameter shall be:

@table @pval

@item N_REASON_UNDEFINED
disconnect reason undefined

@end table

@end enumerate

@subsection CLNS

@subsubsection N_UDERROR_IND
@prindex N_UDERROR_IND

@subsubheading Parameters

@table @parm

@item ERROR_type
Specifies the reason for the error.  The possible values are:

@table @pval

@item N_UD_UNDEFINED
no reason specified;

@item N_UD_TD_EXCEEDED
transit delay exceeded;

@item N_UD_CONGESTION
NS provider congestion;

@item N_UD_QOS_UNAVAIL
other requested QOS/service characteristic unavailable;

@item N_UD_LIFE_EXCEEDED
NSDU lifetime exceeded;

@item N_UD_ROUTE_UNAVAIL
suitable route unavailable.

@item N_UD_SEG_REQUIRED
segmentation required where none permitted.

@end table

@end table

@node Mapping NPI to ISO 8348 and CCITT X.213
@appendix Mapping NPI to ISO 8348 and CCITT X.213

@tabref{A-1} shows a mapping of the NPI primitives to the OSI network service
definition primitives.

@tabfig{npi_taba1,A-1,Mapping NPI Primitives to OSI NS}

@node State/Event Tables
@appendix State/Event Tables

This appendix contains tables showing the network-user's view of the possible
states that the NPI may enter due to an event, and the possible events that may
occur on the interface.  The @prim{N_INFO_REQ}, @prim{N_INFO_ACK},
@prim{N_TOKEN_REQ}, and @prim{N_TOKEN_ACK} primitives are excluded from the
state transition table because they can be issued from several states, and
secondly, they do not cause a state transition to occur.  However, the
@prim{N_INFO_REQ} and the @prim{N_TOKEN_REQ} primitives may not be issued by the
NS user when a local acknowledgement to a previously issued primitive is
pending.

@tabfig{npi_tabb1,B-1,Kernel Level NPI States}

@tabref{B-2} and @tabref{B-3} describe the variables and outputs used in the state tables.

@tabfig{npi_tabb2,B-2,State Table Variables}

@tabfig{npi_tabb3,B-3,State Table Outputs}

@tabref{B-4} shows outgoing events that are initiated by the network-user entity.
These events are either requests to the network provider or responses to an
event of the network provider.

@tabfig{npi_tabb4,B-4,Kernel Level NPI Outgoing Events}

@tabref{B-5} shows incoming events that are initiated by the network provider.
These events are either confirmations of a request, or are indications to the NS
user entity that an event has occurred.

@tabfig{npi_tabb5,B-5,Kernel Level NPI Incoming Events}

@tabref{B-6} and @tabref{B-7} describe the possible events the NPI may enter given a
current state and event.  The contents of each box represent the next state
given the current state (column) and the current incoming or outgoing event
(row).  An empty box represents a state/event combination that is invalid.
Along with the next state, each box may include an action.  The network provider
must take specific actions in the order specified in the state table.

@tabfig{npi_tabb6,B-6,Data Transfer State Table for CLNS}

@tabfig{npi_tabb7,B-7,Initialization State Table for CONS}

@tabfig{npi_tabb8,B-8,State Table for CONS for Connection/Release/Data Transfer States}

@node Primitive Precedence Tables
@appendix Primitive Precedence Tables

@tabref{C-1} and @tabref{C-2} describe the precedence of the NPI primitives for both the
stream write and read queues.  In both these tables, primitive Y is already on
the queue and primitive X is about to be put on the queue.  The stream write
queue contains network user initiated primitives and the stream read queue
contains network provider initiated primitives.  The column headings are a
shorthand notation for the row headings.

@tabfig{npi_tabc1,C-1,STREAM Write Queue Precedence Table}

@tabfig{npi_tabc2,C-2,STREAM Read Queue Precedence Table}

@node NPI Header File Listing
@appendix NPI Header File Listing

This appendix contains a listing of the NPI header file needed by
implementations.

@smallexample
@verbatim
/*
 * npi.h header for the Network Provider Interface (OSI Conforming)
 */
#define N_CURRENT_VERSION   0x02        /* current version of NPI */
#define N_VERSION_2         0x02        /* version of npi, December 
                                           16, 1991 */

/*
 * Primitives that are initiated by the network user.
 */
#define N_CONN_REQ      0       /* NC request */
#define N_CONN_RES      1       /* Accept previous connection
                                   indication */
#define N_DISCON_REQ    2       /* NC disconnection request */
#define N_DATA_REQ      3       /* Connection-Mode data transfer
                                   request */
#define N_EXDATA_REQ    4       /* Expedited data request */
#define N_INFO_REQ      5       /* Information Request */
#define N_BIND_REQ      6       /* Bind a NS user to network
                                   address */
#define N_UNBIND_REQ    7       /* Unbind NS user from network
                                   address */
#define N_UNITDATA_REQ  8       /* Connection-less data send
                                   request */
#define N_OPTMGMT_REQ   9       /* Options Management request */

/*
 * Primitives that are initiated by the network provider.
 */
#define N_CONN_IND     11       /* Incoming connection indication */
#define N_CONN_CON     12       /* Connection established */
#define N_DISCON_IND   13       /* NC disconnected */
#define N_DATA_IND     14       /* Incoming connection-mode data
                                   indication */
#define N_EXDATA_IND   15       /* Incoming expedited data
                                   indication */
#define N_INFO_ACK     16       /* Information Acknowledgement */
#define N_BIND_ACK     17       /* NS User bound to network address 
                                 */
#define N_ERROR_ACK    18       /* Error Acknowledgement */
#define N_OK_ACK       19       /* Success Acknowledgement */
#define N_UNITDATA_IND 20       /* Connection-less data receive
                                   indication */
#define N_UDERROR_IND  21       /* UNITDATA Error Indication */

/*
 * Additional NPI Primitivies
 */
#define N_DATACK_REQ   23       /* Data acknowledgement request */
#define N_DATACK_IND   24       /* Data acknowledgement indication */
#define N_RESET_REQ    25       /* NC reset request */
#define N_RESET_IND    26       /* Incoming NC reset request
                                   indication */
#define N_RESET_RES    27       /* Reset processing accepted */
#define N_RESET_CON    28       /* Reset processing complete */

/*
 * The following are the events that drive the state machine
 */

/*
 * Initialization events
 */
#define NE_BIND_REQ      0      /* bind request */
#define NE_UNBIND_REQ    1      /* unbind request */
#define NE_OPTMGMT_REQ   2      /* manage options request */
#define NE_BIND_ACK      3      /* bind acknowledgement */
#define NE_ERROR_ACK     5      /* error acknowledgement */
#define NE_OK_ACK1       6      /* ok ack, outcnt == 0 */
#define NE_OK_ACK2       7      /* ok ack, outcnt == 1, q == rq */
#define NE_OK_ACK3       8      /* ok ack, outcnt == 1, q! == rq */
#define NE_OK_ACK4       9      /* ok ack, outcnt > 1 */

/*
 * Connection-Mode events
 */
#define NE_CONN_REQ     10      /* connect request */
#define NE_CONN_RES     11      /* connect response */
#define NE_DISCON_REQ   12      /* disconnect request */
#define NE_DATA_REQ     13      /* data request */
#define NE_EXDATA_REQ   14      /* expedited data request */
#define NE_CONN_IND     16      /* connect indication */
#define NE_CONN_CON     17      /* connect confirm */
#define NE_DATA_IND     18      /* data indication */
#define NE_EXDATA_IND   19      /* expedited data indication */
#define NE_DISCON_IND1  21      /* disconnect indication, outcnt == 
                                   0 */
#define NE_DISCON_IND2  22      /* disconnect indication, outcnt == 
                                   1 */
#define NE_DISCON_IND3  23      /* disconnect indication, outcnt >
                                   1 */
#define NE_PASS_CON     24      /* pass connection */
#define NE_RESET_REQ    28      /* reset request */
#define NE_RESET_RES    29      /* reset response */
#define NE_DATACK_REQ   30      /* data acknowledgement request */
#define NE_DATACK_IND   31      /* data acknowledgement indication */
#define NE_RESET_IND    32      /* reset indication */
#define NE_RESET_CON    33      /* reset confirm */

/*
 * Connection-less events
 */
#define NE_UNITDATA_REQ 25      /* unitdata request */
#define NE_UNITDATA_IND 26      /* unitdata indication */
#define NE_UDERROR_IND  27      /* unitdata error indication */

#define NE_NOEVENTS     36      /* no events */

/*
 * NPI interface states
 */
#define NS_UNBND        0       /* NS user not bound to network
                                   address */
#define NS_WACK_BREQ    1       /* Awaiting acknowledgement of
                                   N_BIND_REQ */
#define NS_WACK_UREQ    2       /* Pending acknowledgement for
                                   N_UNBIND_REQ */
#define NS_IDLE         3       /* Idle, no connection */
#define NS_WACK_OPTREQ  4       /* Pending acknowledgement of
                                   N_OPTMGMT_REQ */
#define NS_WACK_RRES    5       /* Pending acknowledgement of
                                   N_RESET_RES */
#define NS_WCON_CREQ    6       /* Pending confirmation of
                                   N_CONN_REQ */
#define NS_WRES_CIND    7       /* Pending response of N_CONN_REQ */
#define NS_WACK_CRES    8       /* Pending acknowledgement of
                                   N_CONN_RES */
#define NS_DATA_XFER    9       /* Connection-mode data transfer */
#define NS_WCON_RREQ   10       /* Pending confirmation of
                                   N_RESET_REQ */
#define NS_WRES_RIND   11       /* Pending response of N_RESET_IND */
#define NS_WACK_DREQ6  12       /* Waiting ack of N_DISCON_REQ */
#define NS_WACK_DREQ7  13       /* Waiting ack of N_DISCON_REQ */
#define NS_WACK_DREQ9  14       /* Waiting ack of N_DISCON_REQ */
#define NS_WACK_DREQ10 15       /* Waiting ack of N_DISCON_REQ */
#define NS_WACK_DREQ11 16       /* Waiting ack of N_DISCON_REQ */

#define NS_NOSTATES 18          /* No states */

/*
 * N_ERROR_ACK error return code values
 */
#define NBADADDR       1        /* Incorrect address format/illegal 
                                   address * information */
#define NBADOPT        2        /* Options in incorrect format or
                                   contain illegal * information */
#define NACCESS        3        /* User did not have proper
                                   permissions */
#define NNOADDR        5        /* NS Provider could not allocate
                                   address */
#define NOUTSTATE      6        /* Primitive was issues in wrong
                                   sequence */
#define NBADSEQ        7        /* Sequence number in primitive
                                   was incorrect/illegal */
#define NSYSERR        8        /* UNIX system error occurred */
#define NBADDATA      10        /* User data spec. outside range
                                   supported by NS provider */
#define NBADFLAG      16        /* Flags specified in primitive
                                   were illegal/incorrect */
#define NNOTSUPPORT   18        /* Primitive type not supported by 
                                   the NS provider */
#define NBOUND        19        /* Illegal second attempt to bind
                                   listener or default listener */
#define NBADQOSPARAM  20        /* QOS values specified are outside 
                                   the range supported by the NS
                                   provider */
#define NBADQOSTYPE   21        /* QOS structure type specified is 
                                   not supported by the NS provider 
                                 */
#define NBADTOKEN     22        /* Token used is not associated
                                   with an open stream */
#define NNOPROTOID    23        /* Protocol id could not be
                                   allocated */

/* 
 * N_UDERROR_IND reason codes
 */
#define N_UD_UNDEFINED     10   /* no reason specified */
#define N_UD_TD_EXCEEDED   11   /* Transit delay exceeded */
#define N_UD_CONGESTION    12   /* NS Provider congestion */
#define N_UD_QOS_UNAVAIL   13   /* Requested QOS/service
                                   characteristic unavailable */
#define N_UD_LIFE_EXCEEDED 14   /* NSDU Lifetime exceeded */
#define N_UD_ROUTE_UNAVAIL 15   /* Suitable route unavailable */
#define N_UD_SEG_REQUIRED  16   /* Segmentation reqd where none
                                   permitted */

/*
 * NPI Originator for Resets and Disconnects
 */
#define N_PROVIDER           0x0100     /* provider originated
                                           reset/disconnect */
#define N_USER               0x0101     /* user originated
                                           reset/disconnect */
#define N_UNDEFINED          0x0102     /* reset/disconnect
                                           originator undefined */

/*
 * NPI Disconnect & Reset reasons when the originator is the N_UNDEFINED
 */
#define N_REASON_UNDEFINED  0x0200

/*
 * NPI Disconnect reasons when the originator is the N_PROVIDER
 */
#define N_DISC_P             0x0300     /* Disconnection-permanent
                                           condition */
#define N_DISC_T             0x0301     /* Disconnection-transient
                                           condition */
#define N_REJ_NSAP_UNKNOWN   0x0302     /* Connection
                                           rejection-NSAP address
                                           unknown (permanent
                                           condition) */
#define N_REJ_NSAP_UNREACH_P 0x0303     /* Connection
                                           rejection-NSAP
                                           unreachable (permanent
                                           condition) */
#define N_REJ_NSAP_UNREACH_T 0x0304     /* Connection
                                           rejection-NSAP
                                           unreachable (transient
                                           condition) */

/*
 * NPI Disconnect reasons when the originator is the N_USER
 */
#define N_DISC_NORMAL        0x0400     /* Disconnection-normal
                                           condition */
#define N_DISC_ABNORMAL      0x0401     /* Disconnection-abnormal
                                           condition */
#define N_REJ_P              0x0402     /* Connection
                                           rejection-permanent
                                           condition */
#define N_REJ_T              0x0403     /* Connection
                                           rejection-transient
                                           condition */
#define N_REJ_INCOMPAT_INFO  0x0406     /* Connection
                                           rejection-incompatible
                                           information in
                                           NS-user-data */

/*
 * NPI Disconnect reasons when the originator is the N_USER or N_PROVIDER
 */
#define N_REJ_QOS_UNAVAIL_P  0x0305     /* Connection rejection-QOS
                                           unavailable (permanent
                                           condition) */
#define N_REJ_QOS_UNAVAIL_T  0x0306     /* Connection rejection-QOS
                                           unavailable (transient
                                           condition) */
#define N_REJ_UNSPECIFIED    0x0307     /* Connection
                                           rejection-reason
                                           unspecified */

/*
 * NPI Reset reasons when originator is N_PROVIDER
 */
#define N_CONGESTION         0x0500     /* Reset due to congestion */
#define N_RESET_UNSPECIFIED  0x0501     /* Reset-reason
                                           "unspecified" */

/*
 * NPI Reset reasons when originator is N_USER
 */
#define N_USER_RESYNC        0x0600     /* Reset due to user
                                           resynchronization */

/*
 * CONN_flags definition; (used in N_conn_req, N_conn_ind, N_conn_res, and
 * N_conn_con primitives)
 *
 * Flags to indicate support of network provider options; (used with the
 * OPTIONS_flags field of N_info_ack primitive)
 */
#define REC_CONF_OPT        0x00000001L /* Receipt Confirmation
                                           Selection and Support */
#define EX_DATA_OPT         0x00000002L /* Expedited Data Selection 
                                           and Support */

/*
 * This flag is used with the OPTIONS_flags field of N_info_ack as well as the
 * OPTMGMT_flags field of the N_optmgmt_req primitive
 */
#define DEFAULT_RC_SEL      0x00000003L /* Indicates if default
                                           receipt confirmation is 
                                           selected */

/*
 * BIND_flags; (used with N_bind_req primitive)
 */
#define DEFAULT_LISTENER    0x00000001L /* indicates if this stream 
                                           is the default listener */
#define TOKEN_REQUEST       0x00000002L /* indicates if "token"
                                           should be assigned to
                                           the stream */
#define DEFAULT_DEST        0x00000004L /* indicates if default
                                           dest. stream */

/*
 * QOS Parameter Definitions
 */
/*
 * Throughput
 *
 * This parameter is specified for both directions.
 */
typedef struct {
    long thru_targ_value;   /* target throughput values */
    long thru_min_value;    /* minimum acceptable throughput value */
} thru_values_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex thru_values_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Transit Delay
 */
typedef struct {
    long td_targ_value;     /* target transit delay */
    long td_max_value;      /* maximum acceptable transit delay */
} td_values_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex td_values_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Protection Values
 */
typedef struct {
    long protect_targ_value;    /* target protection value */
    long protect_min_value; /* minimum or available protection */
} protection_values_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex protection_values_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Priority Values
 */
typedef struct {
    long priority_targ_value;   /* target priority */
    long priority_min_value;    /* minimum acceptable priority */
} priority_values_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex priority_values_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Types of protection specifications
 */
#define N_NO_PROT               0x00000000L     /* no protection */
#define N_PASSIVE_PROT          0x00000001L     /* protection
                                                   against passive
                                                   monitoring */
#define N_ACTIVE_PROT           0x00000002L     /* protection
                                                   against active
                                                   monitoring */
#define N_ACTIVE_PASSIVE_PROT   0x00000003L     /* protection
                                                   against active
                                                   and passive
                                                   monitoring */

/*
 * Cost Selection
 */
#define N_LEAST_EXPENSIVE       0x00000000L     /* choose least
                                                   expensive means */

/*
 * QOS STRUCTURE TYPES AND DEFINED VALUES
 */
#define N_QOS_CO_RANGE1         0x0101
#define N_QOS_CO_SEL1           0x0102
#define N_QOS_CL_RANGE1         0x0103
#define N_QOS_CL_SEL1           0x0104
#define N_QOS_CO_OPT_RANGE1     0x0105
#define N_QOS_CO_OPT_SEL1       0x0106

/*
 * When a NS user/provider cannot determine the value of a QOS field, it should
 * return a value of QOS_UNKNOWN.
 */
#define QOS_UNKNOWN -1

/*
 * QOS range for CONS. (Used with N_CONN_REQ and N_CONN_IND.)
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong n_qos_type;       /* always N_QOS_CO_RANGE */
    thru_values_t src_throughput_range; /* source throughput range */
    thru_values_t dest_throughput_range;        /* destination
                                                   throughput range 
                                                 */
    td_values_t transit_delay_range;    /* transit delay range */
    protection_values_t protection_range;       /* protection range 
                                                 */
    priority_values_t priority_range;   /* priority range */
} N_qos_co_range_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_qos_co_range_t
@verbatim

/*
 * QOS selected for CONS. (Used with N_CONN_RES and N_CONN_CON.)
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong n_qos_type;       /* always N_QOS_CO_SEL */
    long src_throughput_sel;    /* source throughput selected */
    long dest_throughput_sel;   /* destination throughput selected */
    long transit_delay_sel; /* transit delay selected */
    long protection_sel;    /* NC protection selected */
    long priority_sel;      /* NC priority selected */
} N_qos_co_sel_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_qos_co_sel_t
@verbatim

/*
 * QOS range for CLNS options management. (Used with N_INFO_ACK.)
*/
typedef struct {
    ulong n_qos_type;       /* always N_QOS_CL_RANGE */
    td_values_t transit_delay_max;      /* maximum transit delay */
    ulong residual_error_rate;  /* residual error rate */
    protection_values_t protection_range;       /* protection range 
                                                 */
    priority_values_t priority_range;   /* priority range */
    long max_accept_cost;   /* maximum acceptable cost */
} N_qos_cl_range_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_qos_cl_range_t
@verbatim

/*
 * QOS selection for CLNS options management. (Used with N_OPTMGMT_REQ and *
 * N_INFO_ACK.)
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong n_qos_type;       /* always N_QOS_CL_sel */
    long transit_delay_max; /* maximum transit delay */
    ulong residual_error_rate;  /* residual error rate */
    long protection_sel;    /* protection selected */
    long priority_sel;      /* priority selected */
    long max_accept_cost;   /* maximum acceptable cost */
} N_qos_cl_sel_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_qos_cl_sel_t
@verbatim

/*
 * QOS range for CONS options management. (Used with N_OPTMGMT_REQ.)
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong n_qos_type;       /* always N_QOS_CO_OPT_RANGE */
    thru_values_t src_throughput;       /* source throughput values 
                                         */
    thru_values_t dest_throughput;      /* dest throughput values */
    td_values_t transit_delay_t;        /* transit delay values */
    long nc_estab_delay;    /* NC establishment delay */
    ulong nc_estab_fail_prob;   /* NC estab failure probability */
    ulong residual_error_rate;  /* residual error rate */
    ulong xfer_fail_prob;   /* transfer failure probability */
    ulong nc_resilience;    /* NC resilience */
    long nc_rel_delay;      /* NC release delay */
    ulong nc_rel_fail_prob; /* NC release failure probability */
    protection_values_t protection_range;       /* protection range 
                                                 */
    priority_values_t priority_range;   /* priority range */
    long max_accept_cost;   /* maximum acceptable cost */
} N_qos_co_opt_range_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_qos_co_opt_range_t
@verbatim

/*
 * QOS values selected for CONS options management. (Used with N_OPTMGMT_REQ *
 * and N_INFO_ACK.)
 */

typedef struct {
    ulong n_qos_type;       /* always N_QOS_CO_OPT_SEL */
    thru_values_t src_throughput;       /* source throughput values 
                                         */
    thru_values_t dest_throughput;      /* dest throughput values */
    td_values_t transit_delay_t;        /* transit delay values */
    long nc_estab_delay;    /* NC establishment delay */
    ulong nc_estab_fail_prob;   /* NC estab failure probability */
    ulong residual_error_rate;  /* residual error rate */
    ulong xfer_fail_prob;   /* transfer failure probability */
    ulong nc_resilience;    /* NC resilience */
    long nc_rel_delay;      /* NC release delay */
    ulong nc_rel_fail_prob; /* NC release failure probability */
    long protection_sel;    /* protection selected */
    long priority_sel;      /* priority selected */
    long max_accept_cost;   /* maximum acceptable cost */
} N_qos_co_opt_sel_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_qos_co_opt_sel_t
@verbatim

/*
 * NPI Primitive Definitions
 */

/*
 * Local management service primitives
 */

/*
 * Information request
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_INFO_REQ */
} N_info_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_info_req_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Information acknowledgement
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_INFO_ACK */
    ulong NSDU_size;        /* maximum NSDU size */
    ulong ENSDU_size;       /* maximum ENSDU size */
    ulong CDATA_size;       /* connect data size */
    ulong DDATA_size;       /* discon data size */
    ulong ADDR_size;        /* address size */
    ulong ADDR_length;      /* address length */
    ulong ADDR_offset;      /* address offset */
    ulong QOS_length;       /* QOS values length */
    ulong QOS_offset;       /* QOS values offset */
    ulong QOS_range_length; /* length of QOS values' range */
    ulong QOS_range_offset; /* offset of QOS values' range */
    ulong OPTIONS_flags;    /* bit masking for options supported */
    ulong NIDU_size;        /* network i/f data unit size */
    long SERV_type;         /* service type */
    ulong CURRENT_state;    /* current state */
    ulong PROVIDER_type;    /* type of NS provider */
    ulong NODU_size;        /* optimal NSDU size */
    ulong PROTOID_length;   /* length of bound protocol ids */
    ulong PROTOID_offset;   /* offset of bound protocol ids */
    ulong NPI_version;      /* version # of npi that is supported */
} N_info_ack_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_info_ack_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Service types supported by NS provider
 */
#define N_CONS  1               /* Connection-mode network service
                                   supported */
#define N_CLNS  2               /* Connection-less network service
                                   supported */

/*
 * Valid provider types
 */
#define N_SNICFP    1
#define N_SUBNET    2

/*
 * Bind request
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_BIND_REQ */
    ulong ADDR_length;      /* length of address */
    ulong ADDR_offset;      /* offset of address */
    ulong CONIND_number;    /* requested # of connect-indications
                               to be queued */
    ulong BIND_flags;       /* bind flags */
    ulong PROTOID_length;   /* length of bound protocol ids */
    ulong PROTOID_offset;   /* offset of bound protocol ids */
} N_bind_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_bind_req_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Bind acknowledgement
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_BIND_ACK */
    ulong ADDR_length;      /* address length */
    ulong ADDR_offset;      /* offset of address */
    ulong CONIND_number;    /* connection indications */
    ulong TOKEN_value;      /* value of ``token'' assigned to
                               stream */
    ulong PROTOID_length;   /* length of bound protocol ids */
    ulong PROTOID_offset;   /* offset of bound protocol ids */
} N_bind_ack_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_bind_ack_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Unbind request
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_UNBIND_REQ */
} N_unbind_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_unbind_req_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Options management request
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_OPTMGMT_REQ */
    ulong QOS_length;       /* length of QOS parameter values */
    ulong QOS_offset;       /* offset of QOS parameter values */
    ulong OPTMGMT_flags;    /* options management flags */
} N_optmgmt_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_optmgmt_req_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Error acknowledgement for CONS services
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_ERROR_ACK */
    ulong ERROR_prim;       /* primitive in error */
    ulong NPI_error;        /* NPI error code */
    ulong UNIX_error;       /* UNIX error code */
} N_error_ack_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_error_ack_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Successful completion acknowledgement
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_OK_ACK */
    ulong CORRECT_prim;     /* primitive being acknowledged */
} N_ok_ack_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_ok_ack_t
@verbatim

/*
 * CONS PRIMITIVES
 */

/*
 * Network connection request
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_CONN_REQ */
    ulong DEST_length;      /* destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;      /* destination address offset */
    ulong CONN_flags;       /* bit masking for options flags */
    ulong QOS_length;       /* length of QOS parameter values */
    ulong QOS_offset;       /* offset of QOS parameter values */
} N_conn_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_conn_req_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Connection indication
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_CONN_IND */
    ulong DEST_length;      /* destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;      /* destination address offset */
    ulong SRC_length;       /* source address length */
    ulong SRC_offset;       /* source address offset */
    ulong SEQ_number;       /* sequence number */
    ulong CONN_flags;       /* bit masking for options flags */
    ulong QOS_length;       /* length of QOS parameter values */
    ulong QOS_offset;       /* offset of QOS parameter values */
} N_conn_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_conn_ind_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Connection response
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_CONN_RES */
    ulong TOKEN_value;      /* NC response token value */
    ulong RES_length;       /* responding address length */
    ulong RES_offset;       /* responding address offset */
    ulong SEQ_number;       /* sequence number */
    ulong CONN_flags;       /* bit masking for options flags */
    ulong QOS_length;       /* length of QOS parameter values */
    ulong QOS_offset;       /* offset of QOS parameter values */
} N_conn_res_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_conn_res_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Connection confirmation
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_CONN_CON */
    ulong RES_length;       /* responding address length */
    ulong RES_offset;       /* responding address offset */
    ulong CONN_flags;       /* bit masking for options flags */
    ulong QOS_length;       /* length of QOS parameter values */
    ulong QOS_offset;       /* offset of QOS parameter values */
} N_conn_con_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_conn_con_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Connection mode data transfer request
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_DATA_REQ */
    ulong DATA_xfer_flags;  /* data transfer flags */
} N_data_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_data_req_t
@verbatim

/*
 * NPI MORE_DATA_FLAG for segmenting NSDU into more than 1 NIDUs
 */
#define N_MORE_DATA_FLAG    0x00000001L /* Indicates that the next
                                           NIDU is part of this
                                           NSDU */

/* 
 * NPI Receipt confirmation request set flag
 */
#define N_RC_FLAG           0x00000002L /* Indicates if receipt
                                           confirmation is required 
                                         */

/*
 * Incoming data indication for an NC
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_DATA_IND */
    ulong DATA_xfer_flags;  /* data transfer flags */
} N_data_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_data_ind_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Data acknowledgement request
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_DATACK_REQ */
} N_datack_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_datack_req_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Data acknowledgement indication
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_DATACK_IND */
} N_datack_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_datack_ind_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Expedited data transfer request
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_EXDATA_REQ */
} N_exdata_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_exdata_req_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Expedited data transfer indication
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_EXDATA_IND */
} N_exdata_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_exdata_ind_t
@verbatim

/*
 * NC reset request
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_RESET_REQ */
    ulong RESET_reason;     /* reason for reset */
} N_reset_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_reset_req_t
@verbatim

/*
 * NC reset indication
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_RESET_IND */
    ulong RESET_orig;       /* reset originator */
    ulong RESET_reason;     /* reason for reset */
} N_reset_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_reset_ind_t
@verbatim

/*
 * NC reset response
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_RESET_RES */
} N_reset_res_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_reset_res_t
@verbatim

/*
 * NC reset confirmed
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_RESET_CON */
} N_reset_con_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_reset_con_t
@verbatim

/*
 * NC disconnection request
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_DISCON_REQ */
    ulong DISCON_reason;    /* reason */
    ulong RES_length;       /* responding address length */
    ulong RES_offset;       /* responding address offset */
    ulong SEQ_number;       /* sequence number */
} N_discon_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_discon_req_t
@verbatim

/*
 * NC disconnection indication
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_DISCON_IND */
    ulong DISCON_orig;      /* originator */
    ulong DISCON_reason;    /* reason */
    ulong RES_length;       /* address length */
    ulong RES_offset;       /* address offset */
    ulong SEQ_number;       /* sequence number */
} N_discon_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_discon_ind_t
@verbatim

/*
 * CLNS PRIMITIVES
 */

/*
 * Unitdata transfer request
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_UNITDATA_REQ */
    ulong DEST_length;      /* destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;      /* destination address offset */
    ulong RESERVED_field[2];    /* reserved field for DLPI
                                   compatibility */
} N_unitdata_req_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_unitdata_req_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Unitdata transfer indication
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_UNITDATA_IND */
    ulong SRC_length;       /* source address length */
    ulong SRC_offset;       /* source address offset */
    ulong DEST_length;      /* source address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;      /* source address offset */
    ulong ERROR_type;       /* reserved field for DLPI
                               compatibility */
} N_unitdata_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_unitdata_ind_t
@verbatim

/*
 * Unitdata error indication for CLNS services
 */
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;        /* always N_UDERROR_IND */
    ulong DEST_length;      /* destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;      /* destination address offset */
    ulong RESERVED_field;   /* reserved field for DLPI
                               compatibility */
    ulong ERROR_type;       /* error type */
} N_uderror_ind_t;
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_uderror_ind_t
@verbatim

/*
 * The following represents a union of all the NPI primitives
 */
union N_primitives {
    ulong type;
    N_info_req_t info_req;  /* information request */
    N_info_ack_t info_ack;  /* information acknowledgement */
    N_bind_req_t bind_req;  /* bind request */
    N_bind_ack_t bind_ack;  /* bind acknowledgement */
    N_unbind_req_t unbind_req;  /* unbind request */
    N_optmgmt_req_t optmgmt_req;        /* options management
                                           request */
    N_error_ack_t error_ack;    /* error acknowledgement */
    N_uderror_ind_t uderror_ind;        /* unitdata error
                                           indication */
    N_ok_ack_t ok_ack;      /* ok acknowledgement */
    N_conn_req_t conn_req;  /* connect request */
    N_conn_ind_t conn_ind;  /* connect indication */
    N_conn_res_t conn_res;  /* connect response */
    N_conn_con_t conn_con;  /* connect confirm */
    N_data_req_t data_req;  /* data request */
    N_data_ind_t data_ind;  /* data indication */
    N_datack_req_t datack_req;  /* data acknowledgement request */
    N_datack_ind_t datack_ind;  /* data acknowledgement indication */
    N_exdata_req_t exdata_req;  /* expedited data request */
    N_exdata_ind_t exdata_ind;  /* expedited data indication */
    N_reset_req_t reset_req;    /* reset request */
    N_reset_ind_t reset_ind;    /* reset indication */
    N_reset_res_t reset_res;    /* reset response */
    N_reset_con_t reset_con;    /* reset confirm */
    N_discon_req_t discon_req;  /* disconnect request */
    N_discon_ind_t discon_ind;  /* disconnect indication */
    N_unitdata_req_t unitdata_req;      /* unitdata request */
    N_unitdata_ind_t unitdata_ind;      /* unitdata indication */
};
@end verbatim
@tpindex N_primitives
@end smallexample

@node Glossary
@unnumbered Glossary

@table @emph

@item Signalling Data Link Service Data Unit
A grouping of SDL user data whose boundaries are preserved from one end of the
signalling data link connection to the other.

@item Data transfer
The phase in connection and connectionless modes that supports the transfer of
data between to signalling data link users.

@item SDL provider
The signalling data link layer protocol that provides the services of the
signalling data link interface.

@item SDL user
The user-level application or user-level or kernel-level protocol that accesses
the services of the signalling data link layer.

@item Local management
The phase in connection and connectionless modes in which a SDL user initializes
a stream and attaches a PPA address to the stream.  Primitives in this phase
generate local operations only.

@item PPA
The point at which a system attaches itself to a physical communications medium.

@item PPA identifier
An identifier of a particular physical medium over which communication
transpires.

@end table

@node Acronyms
@unnumbered Acronyms

@multitable {SDL SDU}{International Telecommunications Union}
@item SDLI @tab Signalling Data Link Interface
@item SDL @tab Signalling Data Link
@item SDL SDU @tab Signalling Data Link Service Data Unit
@item ITU-T @tab International Telecommunications Union - Telecom Sector
@item PPA @tab Physical Point of Attachment
@end multitable

@node References
@unnumbered References

@table @asis

@item [X.213]
@anchor{X.213}
@uref{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.213/,,@b{ITU-T Recommendation X.213 (1986)}},
[@b{ISO/IEC 8348}],
@cite{Network Service Definition for Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) for CCITT Applications},
Blue Book,
1986,
(Geneva), ITU,
@uref{http://www.itu.int/,,ITU-T Telecommunication Standardization Sector of ITU}, 
(Previously ``CCITT Recommendation'').

@item [ISO8348]
@anchor{ISO8348}
@b{ISO/IEC 8348 : 1987},
[@uref{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.213/,,@b{ITU-T Recommendation X.213}}],
@cite{Information Processing Systems---Data Communications---Network Service Definition},
April 15, 1987,
(Geneva), ISO/IEC,
@uref{http://www.iso.org/,,International Organization for Standardization},
@uref{http://www.iec.org/,,International Engineering Consortium}.

@item [ISO8348/AD1]
@anchor{ISO8348/AD1}
@b{ISO/IEC 8348/AD1 : 1987},
[@uref{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.213/,,@b{ITU-T Recommendation X.213, Amd. 1}}],
@cite{Information Processing Systems---Data Communications---Network Service Definition---Addendum 1: Connectionless Mode Transmission},
April 15, 1987,
(Geneva), ISO/IEC,
@uref{http://www.iso.org/,,International Organization for Standardization},
@uref{http://www.iec.org/,,International Engineering Consortium}.

@item [ISO8473]
@anchor{ISO8473}
@b{ISO/IEC 8473 : 1987},
[@uref{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.233/,,@b{ITU-T Recommendation X.233}}],
[@uref{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.622/,,@b{ITU-T Recommendation X.622}}],
[@uref{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.623/,,@b{ITU-T Recommendation X.623}}],
@cite{Information Processing Systems---Data Communications Protocol for Providing the Connectionless Mode Network Service},
SC6 N4542,
(Geneva), ISO/IEC,
@uref{http://www.iso.org/,,International Organization for Standardization},
@uref{http://www.iec.org/,,International Engineering Consortium}.

@item [ISO8208]
@anchor{ISO8208}
@b{ISO/IEC 8208 : 1987},
[@uref{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.25/,,@b{ITU-T Recommendation X.25}}],
[@uref{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.75/,,@b{ITU-T Recommendation X.75}}],
@cite{Information Processing Systems---X.25 Packet Level Protocol for Data Terminal Equipment},
September 15, 1987,
(Geneva), ISO/IEC,
@uref{http://www.iso.org/,,International Organization for Standardization},
@uref{http://www.iec.org/,,International Engineering Consortium}.

@item [ISO8878]
@anchor{ISO8878}
@b{ISO/IEC 8878 : 1987},
[@uref{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.223/,,@b{ITU-T Recommendation X.223}}],
@cite{Information Processing Systems---Data Communications---Use of X.25 to Provide the OSI Connection-Mode Network Service},
September 1, 1987,
(Geneva), ISO/IEC,
@uref{http://www.iso.org/,,International Organization for Standardization},
@uref{http://www.iec.org/,,International Engineering Consortium}.

@item [SVID]
@anchor{SVID}
@cite{System V Interface Definition}, Issue 2, Volume 3.

@item [X.210]
@anchor{X.210}
@uref{http://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.210/,,@b{ITU-T Recommendation X.210}},
[@b{ISO/IEC 10731 : 1994}],
@cite{Information Technology---Open Systems Interconnection---Basic reference model: Conventions for the definition of OSI services},
Red Book, 1984,
(Geneva), ITU,
@uref{http://www.itu.int/,,ITU-T Telecommunication Standardization Sector of ITU}. 
(Previously ``CCITT Recommendation'').

@end table

@ifnotplaintext
@c skip indexes for plain text (regex search works better)
@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@ifnottex
@c concatenate indices for html and info
@printindex cp
@end ifnottex

@iftex
@menu
* Concept Index::
* Protocol State Index::
* Primitive Index::
* Primitive Structure and Type Index::
* Primitive Structure Field Index::
* Primitive Values Index::
* Primitive Error Values Index::
* Input-Output Control Index::
* Manual Page Index::
@end menu

@node Concept Index
@section Concept Index
@printindex cp

@page
@node Protocol State Index
@section Protocol State Index
@printindex st

@page
@node Primitive Index
@section Primitive Index
@printindex pr

@page
@node Primitive Structure and Type Index
@section Primitive Structure and Type Index
@printindex tp

@page
@node Primitive Structure Field Index
@section Primitive Structure Field Index
@printindex vr

@page
@node Primitive Values Index
@section Primitive Values Index
@printindex pv

@page
@node Primitive Error Values Index
@section Primitive Error Values Index
@printindex pe

@page
@node Input-Output Control Index
@section Input-Output Control Index
@printindex ct

@page
@node Manual Page Index
@section Manual Page Index
@printindex mp
@end iftex
@end ifnotplaintext

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye
