@c @setfilename sunrpc.info

@node Sun RPC License
@section Sun RPC License
@cindex license, Sun RPC

This license is taken from the @cite{DISCLAIMER} file of the
@file{tirpcsrc2.3.tar.Z} package released by @cite{Sun Microsystems,
@abbr{Inc.}} and is also referenced by the @file{tirpcsrc_99.tar.Z} package
release from @cite{Sun Microsystems, @abbr{Inc.}}.

@sp 1
@center SUN RPC LICENSE

Copyright @copyright{} 1984, Sun Microsystems, Inc.

Sun RPC is a product of @cite{Sun Microsystems, @abbr{Inc.}} and is provided for unrestricted use
provided that this legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the software program in
whole or part.  Users may copy or modify Sun RPC without charge, but are not authorized to license
or distribute it to anyone else except as part of a product or program developed by the user.

@sc{@b{SUN RPC IS PROVIDED AS IS WITH NO WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND INCLUDING THE WARRANTIES OF DESIGN,
MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR ARISING FROM A COURSE OF DEALING, USAGE OR
TRADE PRACTICE.}}

Sun RPC is provided with no support and without any obligation on the part of @cite{Sun
Microsystems, @abbr{Inc.}} to assist in its use, correction, modification or enhancement.

@sc{@b{SUN MICROSYSTEMS, INC. SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY WITH RESPECT TO THE INFRINGEMENT OF
COPYRIGHTS, TRADE SECRETS OR ANY PATENTS BY SUN RPC OR ANY PART THEREOF.}}

In no event will @cite{Sun Microsystems, @abbr{Inc.}} be liable for any lost revenue or profits or
other special, indirect and consequential damages, even if @cite{Sun} has been advised of the
possibility of such damages.

@noindent
Sun Microsystems, Inc. @*
2550 Garcia Avenue @*
Mountain View, California  94043
