'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: scls.8.man,v 0.9.2.17 2006/04/05 09:43:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: scls.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.17  2006/04/05 09:43:50  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SCLS 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B scls
\- produces a list of module and driver names
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBscls\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [{\fB-c\fR|\fB--count\fR}|{\fB-l\fR|\fB--long\fR}|{\fB-b\fR|\fB--both\fR}] [\fImodule\fR ...]
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBscls\fR {{\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}|{\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}|{\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
When issued without the
.BR -c " or " -l
options,
.B scls
lists the specified driver or module name if it is loaded on the
.I STREAMS
system, or, if no
.I module
name is specified, the names of all of the drivers and modules currently
loaded on the
.I STREAMS
system.
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--long\fR [\fImodule\fR ...]
Produces a listing that shows the extension type, major number, and
information pertaining to the
.BR module_info (9)
structure, for each
.I module
name listed, or, if no
.I module
name is specified, all modules on the system.
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--count\fR
Produces a listing showing the number of times an interface routine was
called for each
.I module
name listed, or, if no
.I module
name is specified, all modules on the system.  Information is obtained from
the
.BR module_stat (9)
structure if one is specified for the module.
.TP
\fB-b\fR, \fB--both\fR
Produces a listing showing both the information from the \fB--long\fR format
and the \fB--count\fR format for each
.I module
name listed, or, if no
.I module
name is psecified, all modules on the system.  Information is obtained 
from the
.BR module_info (9)
and
.BR module_stat (0)
structure (if one is specified) for the module.
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--all\fR
Used in conjunction with
\fB-c\fR, \fB-l\fR or \fB-b\fR.
Normally
.B scls
only prints information only for the upper multiplex write queue (that is, the
.I st_wrinit
member of the
.BR streamtab (9)
structure).
The
.B -a
option causes it to display information for all queues.
.TP
\fB-r\fR, \fB--reset\fR
All statistics are reset after collection.  This is statistics for all STREAMS
modules and drivers, not just those listed as
.IR module .
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Suppresses normal output.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increase or specify the verbosity level of the output.  This option may be
repeated.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
When this options is encountered,
.B scls
displays usage information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B scls
displays versions information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B scls
displays copying and copyright information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.PP
The
.BR -c " and " -l
options are mutually exclusive.
.\"
.\"
.SH AGRUMENTS
.PP
.TP
[\fImodule\fR \fI...\fR]
specifies the
.I STREAMS
modules names of interest, or it no
.I module
is specified, refers to all of the
.I STREAMS
modules loaded on the system.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B scls
command provides a method for the caller to query the current
.I STREAMS
configuration.  Options can be used to produce enhanced lists.  Any further
parameters on the command line are module or driver names, and the output
produced is for only those names.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The format of the output without the
.BR -c " or " -l
options is
.sp
.RB < name >,
where
.RS
.TP 12
.RB < name >
is the name of the driver or module
.RI ( %9s ).
.RE
.PP
The format of the output with the
.B -l
option is
.sp
.\".RB < name "> <" type "> <" major "> <" mi_idnum "> <" mi_idname "> <" mi_minpsz "> <" mi_maxpsz "> <" mi_hiwat "> <" mi_lowat >,
.RB < name "> <" type "> <" major "> <" mi_idnum "> <" mi_minpsz "> <" mi_maxpsz "> <" mi_hiwat "> <" mi_lowat >,
where
.RS
.TP 12
.RB < name >
is the name of the driver or module
.RI ( %9s ).
.PD 0
.TP
.RB < type >
The module type.  This is either: \(lqmodule\(rq or \(lqdriver\(rq.
.TP
.RB < major >
The major device number
.RI ( %5d )
when
.I type
is \(lqDriver\(rq, and a space otherwise.
.TP
.RB < mi_idnum >
The module ID number for the module
.RI ( %5d ).
.\".TP
.\".RB < mi_idname >
.\"The module name.
.TP
.RB < mi_minpsz >
The minimum packet size accepted
.RI ( %6ld ).
.TP
.RB < mi_maxpsz >
The maximum packet size accepted
.RI ( %6ld ).
.TP
.RB < mi_hiwat >
The (initial) high water mark for the queue pair
.RI ( %6ld ).
.TP
.RB < mi_lowat >
The (initial) low water mark for the queue pair
.RI ( %6ld ).
.PD
.RE
.PP
The format of the output with the
.B -c
option is
.sp
.RB < name "> <" ms_pcnt "> <" ms_scnt "> <" ms_ocnt "> <" ms_acnt "> <" ms_flags >,
where
.RS
.TP 12
.RB < name >
is the name of the driver or module
.RI ( %9s ).
.PD 0
.TP
.RB < ms_pcnt >
The number of calls to the module's
.BR putp (9)
procedure
.RI ( %8ld ).
.TP
.RB < ms_scnt >
The number of calls to the module's
.BR srvp (9)
procedure
.RI ( %8ld ).
.TP
.RB < ms_ocnt >
The number of calls to the module's
.BR qopen (9)
procedure
.RI ( %8ld ).
.TP
.RB < ms_acnt >
The number of calls to the module's
.BR qadmin (9)
procedure
.RI ( %8ld ).
.TP
.RB < ms_flags >
Boolean statistics flags
.RI ( %8x ).
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful;
one (1) indicates that an error occurred and a diagnostic messages is 
printed to
.BR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message
is printed to
.BR stderr .
.PP
Errors may result from inadequate permissions, inability to open the
.BR nuls (4)
driver, inability to push the
.BR sc (4)
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B scls
command requires the
.BR sc (4)
.I STREAMS
module and the
.BR nuls (4)
.I STREAMS
driver.
If either one is not available, the
.B scls
command will not be successful.
.\".PP
.\"Note that only the module information and module statistics associated with the write side of the
.\"upper multiplexer will be displayed for a module or driver.  A module or driver that has more than
.\"one
.\".BR module_info (9)
.\"or
.\".BR module_stat (9)
.\"structure in its definition, will only display the information associated with the
.\".I st_wrinit
.\"member of the
.\".BR streamtab (9)
.\"structure.
See
.BR sc (4),
.BR module_info (9),
.BR module_stat (9),
.BR streamtab (9)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following is an example of the output of the
.B scls
command without options:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1
#> scls
spx      
sfx      
sad      
pipe     
nuls     
nsdev    
mux      
loop     
log      
fifo     
echo     
clone    
inet     
rawip2   
udp2     
ip_to_dlp
link-driv
np_ip    
sc       
tirdwr   
timod    
testmod  
pipemod  
nullmod  
connld   
bufmod   
ip_strms 
sth      
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
Following is an example of the output of the
.B scls
command with the
.B -l
option:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1
#> scls -l sth sc mux
sth       module         1      0   4096   5120   1024
sc        module         6      0   4096   5120   1024
mux       driver 236   236      0   4096   5120   1024
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
Following is an example of the output of the
.B scls
command with the
.B -c
option:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1
#> scls -c sc timod tirdwr mux
sc              19        0        0        0        0        0
timod            0        0        0        0        0        0
tirdwr           0        0        0        0        0        0
mux              0        0        0        0        0        0
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
Following is an example of the output of the
.B scls
command with the
.B -a
option:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1
#> scls -c -a sth timod sc
sth              0        0        0        0        0        0 : wr
                46        0       12       11        0        0 : rd
timod            0        0        0        0        0        0 : wr
                 0        0        0        0        0        0 : rd
sc              47        0        0        0        0        0 : wr
                 0        0       12       11        0        0 : rd
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR sc (4)
.I STREAMS
configuration module.
.TP
.B /dev/nuls
.I STREAMS
null device, see
.BR nuls (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/scls
contains the
.B scls
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sc (4),
.BR nuls (4),
.BR strinfo (8),
.BR strload (8),
.BR strsetup (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B scls
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg.
This is an
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
command.
.B scls
is provided in
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for compatibility with
.IR AIX \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR AIX \(rg
does not document long options.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
does not document the
.BR -b ", " -a ", " -r ", " -q ", " -v ", " -h ", " -V " or " -C
options.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.IP \(em
The format of the output from the
.B scls
command with the
.BR -c " or " -l
options may be different from that of
.IR AIX \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg
documentation.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B scls
first appeared in
.IR AIX \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
