'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strconf.8.man,v 0.9.2.16 2008-04-28 12:53:44 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:44 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strconf.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.16  2008-04-28 12:53:44  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.15  2006/10/06 12:18:50  brian
.\" - updated manual pages to pass make check and for release
.\" - updated release files for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.14  2006/04/05 09:43:51  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRCONF 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strconf
\- \fISTREAMS\fP configuration utility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 12
\fBstrconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fICONFIGFILE\fR \fI...\fR]
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBstrconf\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstrconf\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstrconf\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B strconf
is a
.I STREAMS
configuration utility that is used with all
.B OpenSS7
.I STREAMS
packages.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-b\fR, \fB--basemajor\fR \fIMAJOR\fR
Set the base major number for automatic assignment of major device numbers.
The
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
.I Configure
script, run from the top level \*(lqmake,\*(rq uses the value of the
environment variable
.B ${LIS_MAJOR_BASE}
to set this parameter, or a default value if this variable is not defined.  By
defining this symbol in your environment, you can override the default base
for major device numbers.
.TP
\fB-B\fR, \fB--minorbits\fR \fIMINORBITS\fR
number of bits in a minor device number.  Default
.RB ' 8 '.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--hconfig\fR [\fIHCONFIG\fR]
full path and filename of the
.I STREAMS
configuration header file.  Default
.RB ' config.h '.
This option must be specified to cause
.B strconf
to generate the
.I STREAMS
configuration header file.
.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB--modconf\fR [\fIMODCONFINC\fR]
full path and filename of the module configuration include file.  Default
.RB ' modconf.inc '.
This option must be specified to cause
.B strconf
to generate the
module configuration include file.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--makenodes\fR [\fIMAKENODES\fR]
full path and filename of the makenodes file.  Default
.RB ' makenodes.c '.
This option must be specified to cause
.B strconf
to generate the
makenodes file.
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--permission\fR [\fIPERM\fR]
permissions to assign to created files.  Default
.RB ' 0666 '.
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--driverconf\fR [\fIDRIVERCONF\fR]
full path and filename of the driver configuration file.  Default
.RB ' drvconf.mk '.
This option must be specified to cause
.B strconf
to generate the
driver configuration file.
.TP
\fB-L\fR, \fB--confmodules\fR [\fICONFMODULES\fR]
full path and filename of the modules configuration file.  Default
.RB ' conf.modules '.
This option must be specified to cause
.B strconf
to generate the
modules configuration file.
.TP
\fB-r\fR, \fB--functionname\fR [\fIFUNCNAME\fR]
function name of the function in makenodes.  Default
.RB ' main '.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--strmknods\fR [\fIMAKEDEVICES\fR]
full path and filename of the makedevices script.  Default
.RB ' makedev.lst '.
This option must be specified to cause
.B strconf
to generate the
makedevices script.
.TP
\fB-S\fR, \fB--strsetup\fR [\fISTRSETUP\fR]
full path and filename of the
.BR strsetup (8)
configuration file.  Default
.RB ' strsetup.conf '.
This option must be specified to cause
.B strconf
to generate the
.BR strsetup (8)
configuration file.
.TP
\fB-O\fR, \fB--strload\fR [\fISTRLOAD\fR]
full path and filename of the
.BR strload (8)
configuration file.  Default
.RB ' strload.conf '.
This option must be specified to cause
.B strconf
to generate the
.BR strload (8)
configuration file.
.TP
\fB-k\fR, \fB--package\fR [\fIPACKAGE\fR]
name of
.I STREAMS
package.  Default
.RB ' LiS '.
The option can be one of:
.RS
.TP
.B LiS
the Linux STREAMS package.
.[
lis
.]
.PD 0
.TP
.B LfS
the Linux Fast-STREAMS package.
.[
lfs
.]
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
[\fICONFIGFILE\fR \fI...\fR]
specifies the input configuration file.  If no configuration file is specified for input,
.B strconf
will read input from
.IR stdin .
If more than one input configuration file is specified, each will be read in the sequence specified
on the command line.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B --strsetup
option generates a configuration file suitable for use by
.BR strsetup (8).
For more information on the format of
.BR strsetup (8)
configuration files, see
.BR strsetup (8).
.PP
The
.B --strload
option generates a configuration file suitable for use by
.BR strload (8).
For more information on the format of
.BR strload (8)
configuration files, see
.BR strload (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/strconf
contains the
.B strconf
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR strconf (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
This man page was shamelessly stolen directly from the
.BR "LiS htdocs" .
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B strconf
is compatible with
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
