'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: streams.8.man,v 1.1.2.1 2006/08/22 12:36:44 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/08/22 12:36:44 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: streams.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2006/08/22 12:36:44  brian
.\" - udpates to documentation, tweaks to Stream head
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STREAMS 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B streams, streams.sh
\- System V Init Script for the \fISTREAMS\fR subsystem
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBservice\fR \fRstreams\fR
[\fIcommand\fR]
# RedHat/Mandriva distribution
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBrc\fRstreams\fR
[\fIcommand\fR]
# SuSE distribution
.HP 12
\fB/etc/init.d/\fRstreams.sh\fR
[\fIcommand\fR]
# Debian distribution
.HP 12
\fB/etc/init.d/\fRstreams\fR
[\fIcommand\fR]
# Other distributions
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B streams
System V Init Script starts, stop, restarts and displays the status of the
.IR STREAMS (9)
subsystem.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The
.I command
argument can be one of the following:
.TP
(none)
When executed without arguments, the
.B streams
init script will display a short usage summary and exit.
.TP
.B start
Start the
.IR STREAMS (9)
subsystem.
Device are installed if
.B STREAMS_MAKEDEVICES
is set to
.IR yes .
All
.I STREAMS
kernel modules in the base package are loaded with
.BR "modprobe" ,
and a lock file is created to indicate that the subsystem has been started.
.TP
.B stop
Stop the
.IR STREAMS (9)
subsystem.
Devices are removed if
.B STREAMS_REMOVEDEVICES
is set to
.IR yes .
Any
.I STREAMS
kernel modules that are loaded (with the notable exception of the
.BR specfs (5)
kernel module), will be removed with
.BR "modprobe -r" .
If devices do not exist and there are no
.I STREAMS
kernel modules loaded,
.B stop
performs effectively no action.
.TP
.B force-reload
Perform a forced reload of configuration information for the
.IR STREAMS (9)
subsystem.
This has the same effect as a
.B reload
except that the lock file is forcibly removed.
.PP
The Debian-style
.B streams.sh
script also recognizes the following commands:
.TP
.B show
Report on the status of the
.IR STREAMS (9)
subsystem.
.PP
The RedHat-style
.B streams
script also recognizes the following commands:
.TP
.B status
Report on the status of the
.IR STREAMS (9)
subsystem.
.TP
.B restart
Restart the
.IR STREAMS (9)
subsystem.
.TP
.B try-restart
Try to restart the
.IR STREAMS (9)
subsystem.
This has the same effect as a
.B reload
except that the lock file is forcibly removed.
.TP
.B condrestart
Perform a conditional restart of
.IR STREAMS (9)
subsystem.
This is the same as a start if the subsystem is not already running.
This also has the same effect as a
.B reload
except that the lock file is forcibly removed.
.TP
.B reload
Perform a reload of configuration information for the
.IR STREAMS (9)
subsystem.  This has the same effect as a
.BR restart .
.TP
.B probe
Probe the
.IR STREAMS (9)
subsystem.  Probing consists of determining the status of lock file and
configuration files and performing the actions necessary to move the
.IR STREAMS (9)
subsystem to an operational state.  This could be effectively the same as a
.BR start ", " reload " or " restart
depending on the current status of the lock files, configuration files, and
subsystem.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Normally the
.B streams
or
.B streams.sh
init script is invoked by the
.BR init (8)
process.
Nevertheless, the script can be invoked by the adminstrator in the usual ways:
.\"
.SS RedHat-Style Systems
.PP
When the init script is installed, it is made known to the
.BR service (8)
command.  The
.BR service (8)
command can be used to invoke the script by name with the same command
arguments as the script itself, at the shell command prompt, as follows:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
$> service streams [command]
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.SS SuSE Systems
.PP
When the init script is installed,
.BR inserv (8)
will also create the rc script named
.B rcstreams
in the
.B /usr/sbin
directory.  This script can be invoked by the adminstrator with the same
command arguments as the
.B streams
script itself, at the shell command prompt, as follows:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
$> rcstreams [command]
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.SS Debian-Style Systems
.PP
When the init script is installed, it is made available in the
.B /etc/init.d
directory and can be invoked directly with the same command arguments, at the
shell command prompt, as follows:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
$> /etc/init.d/streams.sh [command]
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.SS Other Systems
.PP
On other System V Init Script compatible systems, the init script is installed
in the
.B /etc/init.d
directory and can be invoked directly, with the same command arguments, at the
shell command prompt, as follows:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
$> /etc/init.d/streams [command]
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.PP
The following shell variables can be overridden in a configuration file or via
the environment:
.TP
.B STREAMS_MKNOD
The name of the command to execute to create devices for the
.I STREAMS
subystem.  This can be overridden by the configuration file, but will have a
default value that results from searching the following locations for an
executable named
.BR streams_mknod :
.IR ./ : /sbin : /usr/sbin : /bin : /usr/bin .
See
.BR streams_mknod (8).
.TP
.B STREAMS_MODULES
Provides a list of
.I STREAMS
subsystem kernel modules to be loaded when the script starts the subsystem.
This defaults to kernel module
.RB \(lq streams \(rq.
.TP
.B STREAMS_MAKEDEVICES
When equal to
.RI \(lq yes \(rq,
it indicates to the startup script that it is to create device nodes for
.I STREAMS
devices when starting up.  When set to another value, device nodes will not be created.
.TP
.B STREAMS_REMOVEDEVICES
When equal to
.RI \(lq yes \(rq,
it indicates to the startup script that it is to remove device nodes for
.I STREAMS
devices when shutting down.  When set to another value, device nodes will not be removed.
.PP
The Debian-style
.B streams.sh
script also recognizes the following additional evironment variables:
.TP
.B VERBOSE
When set to other than zero (0), diagnostic messages printed by commands executed
by the script will be printed to standard output.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
The
.B streams
and
.B streams.sh
scripts display success or failure on standard output in the normal manner of
System V Init Scripts for the distribution upon which they are loaded.
Diagnostic messages associated with the failure of the script or any command
in the script are printed on standard error (however, standard error may be
redirected by the invoking script).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To probe the subsystem and move the
.I STREAMS (9)
subsystem smoothly to an operational state, execute the following (as root) at
the shell command prompt:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
$> service streams probe
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
The init script typically creates the following character device nodes in the
.B /dev
directory:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lnnnl1lrb0l.
/dev/clone:230:0:0666:root:root:clone:(4)
/dev/conslog:233:1:0666:root:root:log:(4)
/dev/echo:230:231:0666:root:root:echo:(4)
/dev/fifo:232:0:0666:root:root:fifo:(4)
/dev/loop.1:234:1:0666:root:root:loop:(4)
/dev/loop.2:234:2:0666:root:root:loop:(4)
/dev/loop_clone:230:234:0666:root:root:loop:(4)
/dev/mux:230:236:0666:root:root:mux:(4)
/dev/nsdev:235:0:0666:root:root:nsdev:(4)
/dev/nuls:230:237:0666:root:root:nuls:(4)
/dev/pipe:238:0:0666:root:root:pipe:(4)
/dev/sad:230:239:0666:root:root:sad:(4)
/dev/sfx:240:0:0666:root:root:sfx:(4)
/dev/sloop:230:234:0666:root:root:loop:(4)
/dev/spx:241:0:0666:root:root:spx:(4)
/dev/strlog:230:233:0666:root:root:log:(4)
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/rc.d/init.d/streams
Installed location of the init script on RedHat-style systems.
.TP
.B /etc/init.d/streams.sh
Installed location of the init script on Debian-style systems and accessible
location of the init script on all systems.
.TP
.B /etc/sysconfig/streams
The configuration file for the
.B streams
startup script is located in the
.B /etc/sysconfig/streams
file (for RedHat-style System V Init Script configurations).
.TP
.B /etc/default/streams
The configuration file for the
.B streams.sh
startup script is located in the
.B /etc/default/streams
file (for Debian-style System V Init Script configurations).
.TP
.B /etc/sysctl.conf
Contains general system wide system controls.
This file has the format described in
.BR sysctl.conf (5).
.I STREAMS
subsystem system controls can either be placed in this global file or in the
specific file below.
.TP
.B /etc/streams.conf
Contains
.I STREAMS
sybsystem specific system controls.
This file has the format described in
.BR sysctl.conf (5).
.I STREAMS
subsystem system controls can either be placed in this specific file or in the
global file above.
.TP
.B /var/lock/subsys/streams
The subsystem lock file for the
.I STREAMS
subsystem on RedHat-style systems.  This file normally exists when the
subsytem is running and locked.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR streams_mknod (8),
.BR sysctl (8),
.BR service (8),
.BR rc (8),
.BR insmod (8),
.BR rmmod (8),
.BR modprobe (8),
.BR inserv (8),
.BR ckconfig (8),
.BR install_initd (8),
.BR remove_initd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B streams
and
.B streams.sh
have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B streams
and
.B streams.sh
init scripts are compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Although the file layout is similar,
.B Linux
init scripts are not necessarily compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
init scripts.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Initializing the
.I STREAMS
subsystem is implementation specific and not subject to standardization.
.PP
The
.B streams
init script conforms to
.I LSB
specification for init scripts and is compatible with a wide range of
RedHat-style and LSB compatibile systems.
.PP
The
.B streams.sh
init script conforms to
.I Debian
policy.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B streams
and
.B streams.sh
init scripts are new to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
