'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strerr.8.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/03/04 23:15:47 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/04 23:15:47 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH STRERR 8 "$Date: 2004/03/04 23:15:47 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strerr
\- receives error log messages from the \fISTREAMS\fR \fBlog\fR(4) driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
.B strerr
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B strerr
daemon receives error log messages from the
.I STREAMS
log driver and appends them to a log file.  The error log files produced
reside in the directory
.BR /var/adm/streams ,
and are named
.BI error. mm-dd\fR,
where
.I mm
is the month and
.I dd
is the day of the messages comtained in each log file.
.PP
Messages that appear in the error log are intended to report exceptional
conditions that require the attention of the person who administers your
system.  Those messages indicating the total failure of a
.I STREAMS
driver or module should have the
.B F
flag set.  Those messages requiring the immediate attention of the
administrator should have the
.B N
flag set, which causes the error logger to send the message to that person by
way of the
.BR mail (1)
command.  The priority level usually has no meaning in the error log, but does
have meaning if the message is also sent to the tracer process.
.PP
Once initiated, the
.B strerr
daemon continues to execute until terminated by the user.  Usually, the
.B strerr
daemon is executed asynchronously.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
The format of an error log message is:
.RB < seq "> <" time "> <" ticks "> <" flags "> <" mid "> <" sud "> <" text >
These fields are defined as follows:
.TP
.RB < seq >
Error sequence number.
.TP
.RB < time >
Time of the message in hh:mm:ss.
.TP
.RB < ticks >
Time of the message in machine ticks since boot priority level.
.TP
.RB < flags >
One of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B T
The message was also sent to a tracing process.
.TP
.B F
Indicates a fatal error.
.TP
.B N
Send mail to the person who administers your system.
.RE
.TP
.RB < mid >
Module ID number of source.
.TP
.RB < sud >
Sub-ID number of source.
.TP
.RB < text >
Formatted text of the error message.
On multiprocessor systems,
.RB < text >
is composed of two parts:
.RS
.IP \(bu
the number of processors where the owner of the message has sent it.
.IP \(bu
the formatted text itself.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Only one
.BR strerr
daemon at a time is permitted to open the
.I STREAMS
log driver.  If a module or driver is generating a large number of error
messages, running the error logeer causes a degradation in
.I STREAMS
performance.  If a large number of messages are generated in a short time, the
log driver amy not be able to deliver some of the messages.  This situation is
indicated by gaps in the sequence numbering of the messages in the log files.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/strerr
contains the
.B strerr
command.
.TP
.BI /var/adm/streams/error. mm-dd
Error log file.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR log (4),
.BR strclean (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B strerr
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR HPUX \(rg,
.BR Solaris \(rg,
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR "SVR 4.2" ;
.[
svr42cr
.]
.BR HPUX \(rg,
.BR Solaris \(rg,
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
