'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strlogd.8.man,v 0.9.2.2 2006/04/05 09:43:51 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:51 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strlogd.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/04/05 09:43:51  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRLOGD 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strlogd
\- \fISTREAMS\fR logger \fBsyslogd\fR(8) helper
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.hy 0
.HP \w'strlogd\ 'u
\fBstrlogd\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
[\fB-nqDv\fR]
[{\fB-d\fR|\fB--directory\fR[=]}\fIdirectory\fR]
[{\fB-p\fR|\fB--pidfile\fR[=]}[\fIpidfile\fR]]
[{\fB-l\fR|\fB--logdev\fR[=]}[\fIlogdevice\fR]]
[{\fB-D\fR|\fB--debug\fR[=]}[\fIlevel\fR]]
[{\fB-v\fR|\fB--verbose\fR[=]}[\fIlevel\fR]]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBstrlogd\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBstrlogd\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBstrlogd\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B strlogd
deamon provides some capabilities for the
.I STREAMS
logger not provided by
.BR syslogd (8).
The
.B strlogd
daemon receives console log messages from the
.I STREAMS
log driver
.RB ( log (4))
and issues them to
.BR syslog (3).
.BR syslogd (8)
is then responsible for processing the messages.
.PP
By default,
.B strlogd
logs all
.I STREAMS
console messages from all drivers and modules.
.PP
Messages that appear in the console log are intended to report exceptional
conditions that require the attention of a person who administers your system.
Those messages indicating the total failure a
.I STREAMS
driver or module will be logged with
.BR LOG_EMERG .
Those messages requiring the immediate attention of the administrator, and which should be mailed to
the system adminstrator must be mailed using the facilities of
.BR syslogd (8).
The
.BR strlogd
console logger will not mail these messages (although the error logger,
.BR strerr (8),
will).
The priority level has no meaning in the console log, but does have meaning if the message is also
sent to the trace logger.
.PP
Once initiated, the
.B strlogd
daemon continues to execute until terminated by the user.  Usually, the
.B strlogd
daemon is executed asynchronously.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--directory\fR \fIdirectory\fR
Specifies a directory to contain the messages.  Default is to search for
.RB \(lq /var/adm/streams \(rq
and then
.RB \(lq /var/log/streams .\(rq
.TP
\fB-n\fR, \fB--nodaemon\fR
Do not daemonize, run in the foreground, print output to
.I stdout
and error logs to
.IR stderr .
This option is most usefull for debugging
.BR strlogd .
.TP
\fB-b\fR, \fB--basename\fR \fIbasename\fR
Specify the log file basename.  Default is
.RB \(lq console \(rq .
.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB--outfile\fR \fIoutfile\fR
Specifiy the log file output name.
When run as a daemon, the default is
.RI \(lq /dev/null \(rq
as no output is generated.
When run in the foreground, the default is ignored and all output is to
.IR stdout .
When specified, standard output is redirected to the specified file regardless of whether
.B strlogd
is being run in the foreground or as a daemon.
.TP
\fB-e\fR, \fB--errfile\fR \fIerrfile\fR
Specify the error file output name.
When run as a daemon, the default is
.RI \(lq /dev/null \(rq
and all errors are logged to
.BR syslogd (8).
When run in the foreground, the default is ignored and all errors are logged to
.IR stderr .
When specified, standard error is redirected to the specified file regardless of whether
.B strlogd
is being run in the foreground or as a daemon.
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--pidfile\fR \fIpidfile\fR
Specify the pid file output name.  Default is
.RB \*(lq /var/run/strlogd.pid .\*(rq
When run in the foreground, the default is ignored.
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--logdev\fR \fIlogdevice\fR
Specifies the log device.  Default is to search
.RB \(lq /dev/streams/strlog ,\(rq
.RB \(lq /dev/streams/log ,\(rq
.RB \(lq /dev/strlog \(rq
and
.RB \(lq /dev/log .\(rq
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Suppresses normal output.
This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 0 .
.TP
\fB-D\fR, \fB--debug\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increase or specify the debug output
.IR level .
When a debug
.I level
has been specified,
.B strlogd
will log to
.IR stdout ,
prints debug messages to
.IR stderr ,
and will not place itself in the background.
This option may be repeated.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increase or specify the verbosity
.I level
of the output.  This option may be repeated.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B strlogd
displays usage information on
.I stdout
and exits.
No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no actions are taken.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B strlogd
displays version information on
.I stdout
and exits.
No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no actions are taken.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B strlogd
displays copying and copyright information on
.I stdout
and exits.
No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no actions are taken.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.B strlogd
takes no non-option arguments.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero
.RB ( 0 )
indicates that the command was successful; one
.RB ( 1 )
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two
.RB ( 2 )
indicates that the option or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH SIGNALS
.PP
.B syslogd
catches the
.B SIGHUP
signal
.RB "(see " signal (7)).
.TP
.B SIGHUP
When the
.B SIGHUP
signal is caught,
.B syslogd
will close the current log file and open a new (or reopen the existing) log
file.  This is for use with
.BR logrotate (8).
.TP
.B SIGTERM
When the
.B SIGTERM
signal is caught,
.B syslogd
flushes and closes all of its log files and then exits.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Only one
.B strlogd
daemon or process at a time is permitted to open the
.I STREAMS
log driver as a console logger.
If a module or driver is generating a large number of console
messages, running the console logger causes a degradation in
.I STREAMS
performance.  If a large number of messages are generated in a short time, the
log driver may not be able to deliver some of the messages.  This situation is
indicated by gaps in the sequence numbering of the messages in the log files.
.PP
When run in the foreground,
.B strlogd
runs until terminated by the caller.
.PP
Running
.B strlogd
can impair
.I STREAMS
performance, particularly for those modules and drivers that are sending the
messages.
Also be aware that
.B strlogd
may not be able to handle a large number of messages.  If drivers and modules
return messages to
.B strlogd
too quickly, some may be lost.
.PP
Due to performance considerations, only one
.B strlogd
command is permitted to open the
.I STREAMS
.B log
driver at a time.
Running the
.B strlogd
command has the most impact on the timing of modules and drivers generating
the error messages that are sent to the
.B strlogd
process.  If error messages are generated faster than the
.B strlogd
process can handle them, some of the messages will be lost.  This last case
can be determined by examining the sequence numbers on the error messages
output.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/streams/strlog ", " /dev/streams/log ", " /dev/strlog " or " /dev/log
the
.I STREAMS
logging device.
See
.BR strlog (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/strlogd
contains the
.B strlogd
command.
.TP
.BR /var/log/streams " or " /var/adm/streams
directory containing the error log files.
.TP
.BI /var/log/streams/console. "mm-dd \fR or " /var/adm/streams/trace. mm-dd
console log file.
.TP
.BR /etc/init.d/strlogd " or " /etc/strlogd.sh
an SysV or Debian init script for starting the console logger.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR log (4),
.BR strlog (4),
.BR strlog (9),
.BR strlog (1),
.BR strerr (8),
.BR strclean (8),
.BR syslogd (8),
.BR syslog (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B strlogd
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B strlogd
is compatible with implementations of
.BR syslogd
on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42cr
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Options
.BR -n ", " -D ", " -b ", " -o ", " -e ", " -p " and " -l ,
and all long options, are specific to this
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.BR strlogd
and should not be used by portable applications.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the
.BR -q ", " -D ", " -v ", " -h ", " -V " or " -C
options.
They should not be used by portable applications.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
do not document this daemon directly, on these systems the functions performed by the
.B strlogd
daemon are described as being performed by the
.BR syslogd (8)
daemon.
.IP \(em
All other implementations document the log file directory as
.B /var/adm/streams
instead of
.BR /var/log/streams .
.B /var/log/streams
is used under
.B Linux
for compatibility with the
.BR "Linux File Standard" .
For compatibility,
.B strlogd
first checks if the directory
.B /var/adm/streams
exists, and then creates
.B /var/log/streams
if necessary, unless a directory is specified with the
.B -d
option.
.IP \(em
Under
.IR "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42cr
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
the
.I STREAMS
log device is called
.B /dev/log
rather than
.BR /dev/strlog .
.B Linux
already has a
.RB non- STREAMS
based log mechanism (BSD-style) logging device named
.BR /dev/log .
.IP \(em
Under
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfdoc
.]
the
.I STREAMS
log device is called
.B /dev/streams/log
instead of
.BR /dev/strlog .
.IP \(em
For compatibility with these operating environments,
.B strlogd
attempts to open
.BR /dev/streams/log ", " /dev/strlog " and then " /dev/log
if not specified with the
.B -l
option.
The call to
.B strlogd
will fail if there is no
.IR STREAMS -based
log device in this search sequence, or specified with the
.B -l
option.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" ;
.[
svr42cr
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
documentation.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.[
osfdoc
.]
.[
soldoc
.]
.[
suxdoc
.]
.[
uw7doc
.]
.[
uxpdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B strlogd
is new for the
.I @PACAKGE_TITLE@
package.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
