'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strload.8.man,v 0.9.2.11 2005/02/18 01:35:46 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/02/18 01:35:46 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH STRLOAD 8 "$Date: 2005/02/18 01:35:46 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strload
\- loads the \fISTREAMS\fR subsystem
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBstrload \fR[\fB-u\fR|\fB-q\fR|[\fB-l\fR]] [\fB-f \fIfile\fR] [\fB-d \fIlist\fR] [\fB-m \fI list\fR]\fP
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBstrload\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstrload\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstrload\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
drivers and modules are dynamically loaded and unloaded.  To support this
function, each driver and module must have a configuration routine that
performs the necessary initialization and setup operations.
.PP
For compatibility with
.IR AIX \(rg " PSE ,
.[
aixcpc
.]
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
provides the
.B strload
command to load
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.  After loading the driver or module, the
.B strload
command calls the driver or module entry point using the
.B SYS_CFGDD
and
.B SYS_CFGMOD
operations in
.BR sysconfig (9).
.PP
Each
.I STREAMS
driver or module must eventually call the
.BR str_install (9)
utility to link into
.IR STREAMS .
.PP
Commonly used drivers or modules can be placed in a configuration file, which
controls the normal setup and tear-down of
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
The configuration file allows more flexibility when loading drivers or modules
by providing user-specified nodes and arguments.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
.RB [ -l ]
Loads the referenced drivers and modules.  (This is the default if the
.B -q
and
.B -u
flags are not specified.)
If no configuration file, drivers or modules are listed in the command options, only the
.I STREAMS
executive is loaded;
.TP
.BI -u ", " --unload
Unloads the referenced drivers and modules.
If no configuration file, drivers or modules are listed in the command options, the entire
.I STREAMS
executive is unloaded;
.TP
.BI -q ", " --query
Queries the referenced drivers and modules.
If no configuration file, drivers or modules are listed in the command options, only the
.I STREAMS
executive is queried;
.TP
.BI -f ", " --file " file"
Specifies the file to use as the configuration file.
If
.B -f
is not specified, the default filename is
.BR /etc/strload.conf .
.TP
.BI -d ", " --drivers " list"
Specifies a list of driver names to load or unload.
.I list
is a comma separated list of driver names.
.TP
.BI -m ", " --modules " list"
Specifies a list of module names to load or unload.
.I list
is a comma separated list of module names.
.PP
Without any options, by default
.B strload
loads the \fISTREAMS\fR executive and takes its configuration from the file
.BR /etc/strload.conf .
Only one of
.BR -l ", " -q " and " -u
are permitted.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
When the
.B -f
or
.B --file
.I filename
options is specified, the format of the supplied file contains
.B strload
specified entires.
.IP \- 3
Each line in the file contains one entry or comment per line.
.IP \-
Each entry consists of a number of fields delimited by whitespace (see
.BR ispace (3)).
.IP \-
Any field that begins with a \*(lq#\*(rq character is a comment that continues
to the end of the line.
.IP \-
Any line containing only a comment (beginning with optional whitespace and a
\*(lq#\*(rq character) is ignored.
.PP
Each line containing a
.B strload
specification entry consists of the following fields:
.TP
(1) \fIattributes\fP
Describes the module to load.  The acceptable values are:
.RS
.TP 4
.B d
Specifies a driver.
.TP
.B m
Specifies a module.
.TP
.B s
Creates the node as a standard (not cloned) device.
.TP
.B +
Specifies that the module can be configured more than once.  This value must
be specified for all lines containing the module file name.
.RE
.TP
(2) \fIfilename\fP
Specifies the object file containing the kernel module.  If the filename contains
a \*(lq/\*(rq (slash) in the filename, the
.B strload
command uses the value in the filename field explicitly, looking first in the
current directory and, upon failure, in the
.BI /lib/module/ \`uname\ -r\` /streams
directory.
.TP
(3) [\fIargument\fP]
Has no meaning for the strload command.  This field is optional.  It is
passed to the kernel module when its configuration routine is called.  Its
interpretation is specific to that kernel module.  The default argument is the
value of the filename field.
.TP
(4) [\fInode\fP]
Specifies the name of the node to create.  This field is optional.  It applies
only to drivers and is used as the created node name when the driver is
loaded.  By default, the created node is \fB/dev/\fIfilename\fR.
.TP
(5+) [\fIminor\fP \fI...\fP]
Specifies additional, non clone nodes to create for this driver.  This field
is optional.  The node names are created by appending the minor number to the
cloned driver node name.  No more than five minor numbers can be given (from 0
to 4), and a node is created for each one.
.\"
.\"
.SH "STREAMS TUNABLE PARAMETERS"
.PP
On
.IR AIX \(rg
when the
.B strload
command is used to load the
.I STREAMS
executive,
.B strload
also reads
.I STREAMS
system tunable parameters from the file
.BR /etc/pse_tune.conf .
.TP
.B strmsgsz
A run-time parameter that specifies the maximum number of bytes that a single
system call can pass to a stream to be placed into the data part of a message
(in
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks).  Any write subroutine exceeding this size will be broken into
multiple messages.  A
.BR putmsg (2)
subroutine with a data part exceeding this size will fail returning a
.RB [ ERANGE ]
error code.  The default value is 0.
.TP
.B strctlsz
A run-time parameter that specifies the maximum number of bytes that a single
system call can pass to a stream to be placed into the control part of a
message (in an
.BR M_PROTO "(9) or " M_PCPROTO (9)
block).  A
.BR putmsg (2)
subroutine with a control part exceeding this size will fail returning an
.RB [ ERANGE ]
error code.  The default is 1024.
.TP
.B nstrpush
A load-time parameter that indicates the maximum number of modules that can be
pushed onto a single stream.  The default value is 8.
.TP
.B psetimers
A run-time parameter that specifies the maximum number of timers allocated.
In the operating system, the
.I STREAMS
subsystem allocates a certain number of timer structures at initialization
time, so the
.I STREAMS
driver or module can register the timeout requests.  Lowering this value is
not allowed until the system reboots, at which time it returns to its default
value.  The default value is 20.
.TP
.B psebufcalls
A run-time parameter that specifies the maximum number of bufcalls allocated.
In the operating system, the
.I STREAMS
subssytem allocates a certain number of bufcall structures at initialization
time.  When an allocb subroutine fails, the user can register request for the
bufcall subroutine.  Lowering this value is not allowed until the system
reboots, at which time it returns to its default value.  The default value is
20.
.TP
.B strturncnt
A run-time parameter the specifies the maximum number of requests handled by
the currently running thread for module- or elsewhere-level
.I STREAMS
synchronization.  The module-level synchronization works in such a way that
only one thread can run in the module at any given time, and all other threads
trying to acquire the same module enqueue their requests and exit.  After the
currently running thread completes its work, it dequeues all the previously
enqueued requests one at a time and starts them.  If there are large numbers
of requests enqueued in the list, the currently running thread must serve
everyone.  To eliminate this problem, , the currently running thread serves
only the
.B strturncnt
number of threads.  After that, a separate kernel thread starts all the
pending requests.  The default value is 15.
.TP
.B strthresh
A run-time parameter that specifies the maximum number of bytes
.I STREAMS
is allowed to allocate.  When the threshold is passed, users without the
appropriate privilege will not be allowed to open streams, push modules, or
write to
.I STREAMS
devices.  The
.RB [ ENOSR ]
error code will be returned.  The threshold applies only to the output side;
therefore, data coming into the system is not affected and continues to work
properly.  A value of 0 indicates there is no threshold.
.IP ""
The strthresh parameter represents a percentage of the value of the thewall
parameter, and its value can be set between 0 and 100.  The thewall parameter
indicates the maximum number of bytes that can be allocated by
.I STREAMS
and sockets using the net_malloc subroutine.  The user can change the value
of thewall parameter using the no command.  When the user changes the value of
the thewall parameter, the threshold gets updated accordingly.  The default
value is 85, indicating the threshold is 85% of the value of the thewall
parameter.
.TP
.B lowthresh
A run-time parameter that specifies the maximum number of bytes (in
percentage) allocated by thewall parameter using allocb for the
.B BPRI_LO
priority.  When the total amount of memory allocated by the net_malloc
subroutine reaches this threshold, the allocb request for the
.B BPRI_LO
priority returns 0.  The lowthresh parameter can be set to any value between 0
and 100.  The default value is 90, indicating the threshold is at 90% of the
value of thewall parameter.
.TP
.B medthresh
A run-time parameter that specifies the maximum number of bytes (in
percentage) allocated by thewall parameter using allocb for the
.B BPRI_MED
priority.  When the total amount of memory allocated by the net_malloc
subroutine reaches this threshold, the allocb request for the
.B BPRI_MED
priority returns 0.  The lowthresh parameter can be set to any value between 0
and 100.  The default value is 95, indicating the threshold is at 95% of the
value of thewall parameter.
.TP
.B pseintrstack
A load-time parameter that indicates the maximum number of the interrupt stack
size allowed by
.I STREAMS
while running in the off level.  Sometimes when a process running other than
INTBASE level enters a stream, it encounters stack overflow problems because
of not enough interrupt stack size.  Tuning this parameter properly reduces
the changes of stack overflow problems.  The default value is 0x3000 (decimal
12288).
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of two (2) indicates that option syntax was in error.
.TP
.BR -f " or " --file
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that all entries in the
provided file were loaded, unloaded or queried; one (1) indicates that at
least one entry was not processed.  Diagnostics concerning the line of the
file that failed is printed on
.IR stderr .
.TP
.BR -d " or " --driver
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that all entries in the provided driver
list were loaded, unloaded or queried; one (1) indicates that at least one
driver was not processed.  Diagnostics concerning the driver that failed is
printed on
.IR stderr .
.TP
.BR -m " or " --module
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that all entries in the provided module
list were loaded, unloaded or queried; one (1) indicates that at least one
module was not processed.  Diagnostics concerning the module that failed is
printed on
.IR stderr .
.PP
All other failures result in an exit status of one (1) and a diagnostic is
printed on
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B strload
does not check the credentials of the user.  Any user with permission to the
access the
.BR nuls (4)
null device and push the
.BR sc (4)
.I STREAMS
Configuration Module,
can execute all options.
For security,
.B strload
should never be setuid root.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
An example
.B strload
configuration file for use with the command
.BI "strload -f " filename
is as follows:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-2
#
# strload - sample configuration file
#

# Attr Filename Argument Node    Minors

d      dgb                               #line 1
d      mux      -        -       0       #line 2
ds     foo                               #line 3
d+     xtiso    tcp      /dev/xti/tcp    #line 4
d+     xtiso    udp      /dev/xti/udp    #line 5
m      aoot                              #line 6
\s+2\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR sc (4)
.I STREAMS
configuration module.
.TP
.B /dev/nuls
.I STREAMS
null device.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/strload
contains the
.B strload
command.
.TP
.B /etc/strload.conf
contains the default configuration file.
.TP
.BI /lib/modules/ \`uname\ -r\` /kernel/drivers/streams/*.o
contains
.I STREAMS
driver and module loadable kernel modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sc (4),
.BR modprobe (8),
.BR insmod (8),
.BR rmmod (8),
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B strload
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B strload
is compatible with
.IR AIX \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B strload
options
.BR -f ", " -d ", " -m ", " -q " and " -u
are compatible with
.IR AIX \(rg.
.IR AIX \(rg
does not document long options formats, nor the
.BR -V ", " -h " or " -v
flags.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.IP \(em
.B strload
.BI -f " filename"
file formats are compatible with
.IR AIX \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B strload
first appeared in
.IR AIX \(rg.
.[
aixspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
