'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRTUNE 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strtune
\- display and tune STREAMS tunable parameters
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.hy 0
.PP
.HP 12
\fBstrtune\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [{\fB-n\fR|\fB--name\fR}\ \fINAME\fR|{\fB-q\fR|\fB--queue\fR}\ \fIADDR\fR]
[{\fB-r\fR|\fB--rd\fR|\fB--read\fR}] [{\fB-w\fR|\fB--wr\fR|\fB--write\fR}] [{\fB-m\fR|\fB--mux\fR}]
[{\fB-o\fR|\fB--option\fR}\ \fITUNABLE\fR[=\fIVALUE\fR] [...]]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBstrtune\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [{\fB-n\fR|\fB--name\fR}\ \fINAME\fR|{\fB-q\fR|\fB--queue\fR}\ \fIADDR\fR]
[{\fB-a\fR|\fB--all\fR}]
[{\fB-o\fR|\fB--option\fR}\ \fBtrclevel\fR[=\fIVALUE\fR]]
.HP
\fBstrtune\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [{\fB-M\fR|\fB--modules\fR}
.HP
\fBstrtune\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [{\fB-Q\fR|\fB--queues\fR}
.HP
\fBstrtune\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [{\fB-f\fR|\fB--file\fR}\ \fIFILE\fR
.HP
\fBstrtune\fR {{\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}|{\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}|{\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
When issued without anny command options,
.B strtune
will list all of the loaded STREAMS drivers and modules and active queues.
Any user can interrogate the system with this command: only a privileged user
can alter tunables or trace levels.
.PP
.TP
\fB-n\fR, \fB--name\fR[=]\fINAME\fR
Specifies the name,
.IR NAME ,
of a STREAMS module or driver that is to have its tunables listed or set.
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--queue\fR[=]\fIADDR\fR
Specifies the address,
.IR ADDR ,
of a STREAMS queue, queue pair, Stream or module that is to have its tunables
listed or set.
.TP
\fB-M\fR, \fB--modules\fR
List all of the loaded modules with their corresponding tunables.
The
.BR -o ", " -a ", and " -f
options cannot be used with this command option.
.TP
\fB-Q\fR, \fB--queues\fR
List all of the active queues with their corresponding tunables.
The
.BR -o ", " -a ", and " -f
options cannot be used with this command option.
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--file\fR[=]\fIFILE\fR
Specifies that instead of reading options from the command, read then from
file,
.IR FILE .
Each line in file,
.IR FILE ,
represents the options, as typed on the command line, to be passed to the
.B strtune
command, one line of options per invocation of
.BR strtune .
No other command options may be used with the
.B -f
option.  General options may be used.
.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB--option\fR[=]\fITUNABLE\fR[=\fIVALUE\fR]
The name of the tunable parameter,
.IR TUNABLE ,
can be one of:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBmaxpsz\fR\(em'u
.I hiwat
Sets or queries the high water mark for the queue or module.
See the
.I q_hiwat
member in the
.BR queue (9)
structure and the
.I mi_hiwat
member in the
.BR module_info (9)
structure.
.TP
.I lowat
Sets or queries the low water mark for the queue or module.
See the
.I q_lowat
member in the
.BR queue (9)
structure and the
.I mi_lowat
member in the
.BR module_info (9)
structure.
.TP
.I maxpsz
Sets or queries the maximum packet size for the queue or module.
See the
.I q_maxpsz
member in the
.BR queue (9)
structure and the
.I mi_maxpsz
member in the
.BR module_info (9)
structure.
.IP ""
When the optional value,
.IR VALUE ,
is specified, the value will be set (if possible).  Otherwise, the value will
be displayed.
.TP
.I minpsz
Sets or queries the minimum packet size for the queue or module.
See the
.I q_minpsz
member in the
.BR queue (9)
structure and the
.I mi_minpsz
member in the
.BR module_info (9)
structure.
.RE
.TP
\fB-r\fR, \fB--rd\fR, \fB--read\fR
When used in conjunction with the
.BR -o " TUNABLE"
option, it specifies that the tunable only applies to the read side of the
queue or module (when read and write sizes are different for modules).
.TP
\fB-w\fR, \fB--wr\fR, \fB--write\fR
When used in conjunction with the
.BR -o " TUNABLE"
option, it specifies that the tunable only applies to the write side of the
queue or module (when read and write sizes are different for modules).
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--mux\fR
When used in conjunction with the
.BR -o " TUNABLE"
option, it specifies that the tunable only applies to the lower multiplex of
a multiplexing driver (when different from the upper side fo the module).
This option may also be used in conjunection with
.BR -r " and " -w
options to specify the lower read or lower write tunables (when read and write
sizes are different for the lower multiplex).
.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB--option\fR[=]\fBtrclevel\fR[=\fIVALUE\fR]
The trace level tunable,
.BR trclevel ,
is a special tunable that can only be specified on its own and separate from
other tunables with the
.B -o
option.
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--all\fR
When used in conjunction with the
.B -o trclevel
option, it specifies all queues in the Stream (when used with the
.B -q
option) or all queue pairs in the module (when used with the
.B -n
option).
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--silent\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Suppresses normal output.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increase or specify the verbosity level of the output.  This option may be
repeated.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
When this options is encountered,
.B strtune
displays usage information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B strtune
displays versions information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B strtune
displays copying and copyright information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B strtune
command provides a method for the caller to query or change the current
.I STREAMS
configuration and associated tunable parameters of queues, queue pairs, Streams and modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful;
one (1) indicates that an error occurred and a diagnostic messages is 
printed to
.BR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message
is printed to
.BR stderr .
.PP
Errors may result from inadequate permissions, inability to open the
.BR nuls (4)
driver, inability to push the
.BR sc (4)
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B strtune
command requires the
.BR sc (4)
.I STREAMS
module and the
.BR nuls (4)
.I STREAMS
driver.
If either one is not available, the
.B strtune
command will not be successful.
See
.BR sc (4),
.BR scls (8),
.BR module_info (9),
.BR module_stat (9),
.BR streamtab (9)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following is an example of the output of the
.B strtune
command without options:
.PP
Following is an example of setting the read side high and low water marks for
the
.BR udp (4)
driver:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
  $> strtune -n udp -o hiwat=5192 -o lowat=1024
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Following is the contents of an example configuration file for use with the
.BI -f " FILE"
option.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
  -s -n udp -w -o hiwat=5192 -o lowat=1024
  -s -n udp -r -o hiwat=131764 -o lowat=16536
  -s -n timod -o trclevel=3
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR sc (4)
.I STREAMS
configuration module.
.TP
.B /dev/nuls
.I STREAMS
null device, see
.BR nuls (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/strtune
contains the
.B strtune
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sc (4),
.BR nuls (4),
.BR scls (8),
.BR strinfo (8),
.BR strload (8),
.BR strsetup (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B strtune
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg.
This is an
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
command.
.B strtune
is provided in
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for compatibility with
.IR AIX \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR AIX \(rg
does not document long options.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
does not document the
.BR -r ", " -w ", " -m ", " -s ", " -v ", " -h ", " -V " or " -C
options.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.IP \(em
The format of the output from the
.B strtune
command may be different from that of
.IR AIX \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg
documentation.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B strtune
first appeared in
.IR AIX \(rg " 5.3" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
