'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: test-pipe.8.man,v 0.9.2.2 2005/09/08 05:52:37 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Unauthorized distribution or duplication is prohibited.
.\"
.\" This software and related documentation is protected by copyright and
.\" distributed under licenses restricting its use, copying, distribution
.\" and decompilation.  No part of this software or related documentation
.\" may be reproduced in any form by any means without the prior written
.\" authorization of the copyright holder, and licensors, if any.
.\"
.\" The recipient of this document, by its retention and use, warrants that
.\" the recipient will protect this information and keep it confidential,
.\" and will not disclose the information contained in this document
.\" without the written permission of its owner.
.\"
.\" The author reserves the right to revise this software and documentation
.\" for any reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards
.\" promulgated by various agencies, utilization of advances in the state
.\" of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the design of any
.\" techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.
.\" The author is under no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" As an exception to the above, this software may be distributed under the
.\" GNU General Public License (GPL) Version 2 or later, so long as the
.\" software is distributed with, and only used for the testing of, OpenSS7
.\" modules, drivers, and libraries.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/09/08 05:52:37 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: test-pipe.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2005/09/08 05:52:37  brian
.\" - added nullmod module and loop driver
.\" - corrections during testing
.\" - many ioctl(2p) test cases work very well now
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2005/07/01 20:51:07  brian
.\" - added test suite executable manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TEST-PIPE 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B test-pipe
\- a test suite executable for the pipe(4) STREAMS driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBtest-pipe\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
[{\fB-o\fR|\fB--onetest\fR} [\fITESTCASE\fR]]
[{\fB-t\fR|\fB--tests\fR} [\fIRANGE\fR]]
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBtest-pipe\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
{\fB-l\fR|\fB--list\fR} [\fIRANGE\fR]
.HP 12
\fBtest-pipe\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP 12
\fBtest-pipe\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP 12
\fBtest-pipe\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B test-pipe
is a test stuite executable for the
.BR pipe (4)
.I STREAMS
driver.
The purpose of the
.B test-pipe
test suite executable is to provide a means for development, diagnostic, regression and validation
testing of the
.BR pipe (4)
driver.
The
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package also provides an
.B autotest
based test suite that uses the
.B test-pipe
test case executable to invoke test cases.  This test suite can be used for development, diagnostic,
regression or validation testing.
See the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@ Installation and Reference Manual
for more information on how to invoke the
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B test-pipe
options fall into several categories as detailed in the subsections below.  If
.B test-pipe
is executed without any options, it will execute all available test cases and report the progress
and results of each test case.
.SS Command Options
.PP
These command options determine whether test cases are run or whether an informative function is
performed instead.  If none of these command options are specified, then it is assumed that all test
cases are to be executed.  Options
.BR --list ", " --help ", " --version " and " --copying
will override the
.BR --onetest " and " --tests
options.
.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB--onetest\fR [\fITESTCASE\fR]
Specifies a single test case to run.
.I TESTCASE
is the individual test case number.  This option may be repeated and is accumulative: that is, each
test case added with an occurrence of this option will be added to the other test cases selected with
.B --onetest
or with
.BR --tests .
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--tests\fR [\fIRANGE\fR]
Specifies a range of test cases to run.
.I RANGE
specifies the range of test cases and will match all test cases that have this string as an initial
substring of the test case number.  If
.I RANGE
is not specified, then all test cases are selected.
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--list\fR [\fIRANGE\fR]
When this option is encountered,
print a list of test cases to
.I stdout
and exit.
When a
.I RANGE
of test cases is specified, only the specified range of tests will be listed.  When a
.I RANGE
is not specified, all test cases will be listed.
When used in combination with
.B --verbose
this option will print more or less information about each test case.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
When this option is encountered,
print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered,
print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered,
print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.SS General Options
.PP
The following options are applicable to all command options.  For other than test case command
options, these general options must appear ahead of the command option.
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Specifies that the caller is interested only in the return code and error diagnostics and that
normal output should be suppressed.
The default verbosity level if this option is not specified is
.BR 1 .
This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=0 .
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fILEVEL\fR]
Increases or sets the verbosity level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the verbosity level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the verbosity level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.
The default verbosity level if this option is not specified is
.BR 1 .
For example,
.B -vvvv
is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=5 .
.SS Test Case Options
.PP
The following options are only applicable if a test case command option is in effect.
That is, these options are only effective if test cases are being executed and are used to modify
the manner in which test cases are executed or test case results reported.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--device\fR \fIDEVICE\fR
Specifies the device name to open for the tests.  Because this test program uses pipes, this option
is ineffective.
.TP
\fB-e\fR, \fB--exit\fR
Specifies that the first test case run that is not successful will cause all remaining test cases to
be skipped and the return code will reflect the result of the failed test case.
This option is useful in conjunction with option
.B --onetest
in that if a single test is being run, the return code will reflect the result of the test case.
This is used by the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
test suite to run individual tests under
.BR autotest .
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--fast\fR [\fISCALE\fR]
When this option is present, test cases are run faster by the integer scaling factor
.IR SCALE .
If
.I SCALE
is not provided, then the default scale factor is
.BR 50 .
This has the effect of scaling timers both in the implementation under test as well as in the test
suite.  If the scale factor,
.IR SCALE ,
is too large, test cases may fail that would otherwise pass.  This option is useful for long test
suite runs that would otherwise take an inordinate amount of time to execute.  Timers can be scaled
for development, diagnostic or regression testing, however, for full validation testing this option
should not be used.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--summary\fR
Print a test case summary with each test case result at the end of the test suite run.  The default
if this option is not present is to not print a summary.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--messages\fR
Indicates whether messages, in hexadecimal, should be included in the test case output.  This is
independent of any
.B --verbose
setting.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When
.B test-pipe
fails, it prints a diagnostic message to
.I stderr
and exits with a non-zero return code.
The following return codes are generated under the following conditions:
.IP 0 4
Execution was successful.
One test case was selected for execution and that test case succeeded or was not applicable (i.e.
unsupported).
This exit code is interpreted by
.B autotest
as a
.I PASS
condition.
.IP 1
One test case was selected for execution and that test case failed or was inconclusive.
More than one test case was selected and abort on failure was specified using the
.B --exit
option, and a test case in the selected test cases failed or was inconclusive.
This exit code is interpreted by
.B autotest
as a
.IR FAIL " or " XFAIL
condition.
.IP 2
An invalid parameter was provided.
Test case execution was specified with options
.BR --onetest " or " --tests ,
or listing of test cases was specified with option
.BR --list ,
but no test case was selected by these options.
More than one test case was selected for execution and a check of the test suite setup failed.
This exit code is interpreted by
.B autotest
as a
.IR FAIL " or " XFAIL
condition.
.IP 77
One test case was selected for execution and that test case was skipped.
This exit code is interpreted by
.B autotest
as a
.I SKIPPED
condition.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B test-pipe
is normally invoked from the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\f(CB\)test-pipe\f(CR\) --list 0.1\fR
Generates a list of all test cases
provided by the
.B test-pipe
executable
with numbers starting with the initial substring of
.BR 0.1 .
.TP
\f(CB\)test-pipe\f(CR\) -vv --list\fR
Generates a verbose listing of all test cases
provided by the
.B test-pipe
executable.
.TP
\f(CB\)test-pipe\f(CR\) --verbose=5 --onetest 0.1\fR
Verbosely executes test case
.BR 0.1 ,
and provides a diagnostic return code.
.TP
\f(CB\)test-pipe\f(CR\) --fast --quiet --exit\fR
Executes all test cases with a timer scaling factor of
.B 50
with normal output suppressed and exiting on the first failed or inconclusive test case result.
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
.BR pipe (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/libexec/@PACKAGE@/test-pipe
contains the
.B test-pipe
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR pipe (4),
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Installation and Reference Manual" .
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B test-pipe
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B test-pipe
test suite, when run using
.BR autotest ,
is compatible with the POSIX 1003.3 conformance test methodology, with the following mapping of test
results:
.PP
.RS
.TS
tab(:);
lb|lb|lb
l|l|l.
_
POSIX 1003.3:test-pipe\fR[\fB_thr\fR]:autotest
_
PASS:PASS(0):PASS
FAIL:FAIL(1):FAIL
XFAIL:FAIL(1):XFAIL
UNSUPPORTED:NOT APPLICABLE(0):PASS
UNRESOLVED:INCONCLUSIVE(1):FAIL or XFAIL
UNTESTED:SKIPPED(77):SKIPPED
_
.TE
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.B test-pipe
tests conformance of the
.BR pipe (4)
module to the specifications listed on the
.BR pipe (4)
manual page.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B test-pipe
is provided with the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
