@c @setfilename isode.info

@node ISODE License
@section ISODE License
@cindex license, ISODE
@cindex license, The ISO Development Environment

@sp 2
@center ISODE License

The ISODE is openly available but is @emph{NOT} in the public domain.  You are allowed and
encoranged to take this software and build commercial products.  However, as a condition of use, you
are required to "hold harmless" all contributors.

Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose
and without fee is hereby granted, provided that this notice and the reference to this notice
appearing in each software module be retained unaltered, and that the name of any contributors shall
not be used in advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of the software without specific
written prior permission.  No contributor makes any representations about the suitability of this
software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.

@b{All contributors disclaim all warranties with regard to this software, including implied
warranties of merchantability and fitness.  In no event shall any contributor be liable for any
special, indirect or consequential damages, or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use,
data or profits, whether in action of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of
or in connection with, the use or performance of this software.}

As used above, "contributor" includes, but is not limited to:

@itemize @bullet
@item The MITRE Corporation,
@item The Northrop Corporation,
@item NYSERENT, Inc.,
@item Performance Systems International, Inc.,
@item University of College London,
@item The University of Nottingham,
@item X-Tel Services Ltd.,
@item The Wollongong Group, Inc.,
@item Marshall T. Rose.
@end itemize

In particular, the Northrop Corporation provided the initial sponsorship for the ISODE, and the
Wollongong Gorup, Inc., also supported this effort.  The ISODE received partial support from the
U.S.~Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency and the Rome Air Development Center of the U.S.~Air
Force Systems Command under contract number F30602-88-C-0016 to NYSERNet Inc.
