@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo nocin nosi tw=100
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: descrip.texi,v 0.9.2.2 2007/02/27 08:38:35 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/27 08:38:35 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers, libraries,
programs, init scripts, and daemons that implement the Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Open System
Release 6.1 drivers for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.

This is an @cite{OpenSS7 Project} modified relase of the GPL'ed Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} OSR 6.1
Release 239 drivers modified for use with @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package includes kernel modules, @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS}
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and development environment for the
development and execution of @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} components and applications for the
@cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS} environment.  It provides true @dfn{STREAMS}-based
Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} OSR 6.1 drivers for @cite{Linux}.

The package builds and installs the following @dfn{STREAMS} kernel modules and drivers:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_dlgn.ko} driver @dfn{/dev/streams/dlgn}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_gncfd.ko} driver @dfn{/dev/streams/gncfd}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_gpio.ko} driver @dfn{/dev/streams/gpio}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_mercd.ko} driver @dfn{/dev/streams/mercd}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_dvbm.ko} module @dfn{dvbm}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_sctmr.ko} module @dfn{sctmr}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{pmacd.ko} driver
@item @tab @minus{} @file{ctimod.ko} module
@end multitable

The Springware device drivers support the ability to run the older Springware legacy platform.
These are @dfn{STREAMS} based and use @dfn{STREAMS} functionality provided by @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.  Unlike DM3 or PMAC, a common library interface to access these drivers does no exist
which makes their removal difficult.  All User Interfaces are provided by @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS},
based on the @dfn{STREAMS} protocol.

@table @manref
@item dlgn(4)
The @manpage{dlgn(4)} driver is a device driver that provides access to the
Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} SpringWare and Antares boards.

The @manpage{dlgn(4)} is the main driver which controls the firmware interfaces.  It follows the
Springware Protocol to communicate with the firmware.  There is no DPC or timer in this driver and
its use has not been required since SRAM access is done quickly enough in the messaging via the
channel and device SRAM areas.  No other processing is required in this driver.  @manpage{dlgn(4)}
will read or write a block of data from and to the host runtime library or the bulk data module.

@item gncfd(4)
The @manpage{gncfd(4)} driver is a generic configuration driver that is used by the
Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} runtime libraries to perform configuration for
Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} SpringWare and Antares boards.

The generic configuration driver interfaces with the @manpage{gncfd(4)} driver library
(@file{libgncf.so}) and is used to setup logical devices for the Springware boards.  The driver is
invoked after firmware download via the @command{voxctl} application.  After the logical devices are
created (@samp{dxxxB1}, @samp{dxxB1C1}, etc.), the driver will start the board (enabled interrupts).
@command{voxctl} will create the @file{/usr/dialogic/cfg/.voxcfg} file that contains all the logical
device information given by the @manpage{gncfd(4)} driver.

@item gpio(4)
The @manpage{gpio(4)} driver is the generic input-output interface for downloading firmware.

The Generic Input-Output driver is used to download firmware onto the board.  This driver interfaces
with the @manpage{gpio(4)} driver library (@file{libgpio.so}) and is utilized by the
@command{genload} application during the start of all the Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} services.  The
driver locates boards in the system by providing the physical address, bus, slot and other
information to @command{genload}.  This is used by @command{gpiodebug} for debugging the memory and
input-output devices.

@item mercd(4)
The @manpage{mercd(4)} driver is a device driver for the Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} DM3 family of
boards including the Mercury board (after which it is named).

The DM3 driver, @manpage{mercd(4)}, is a @dfn{STREAMS} based device driver.  The @manpage{mercd(4)}
driver is based on the Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Media III (a.k.a. DM3) architecture.  The driver
comprises of both the SRAM protocol (used in the older products like DMVA) and the Werewolf (WW)
protocol (used in the newer platforms like the DMVB/DMN160 boards) merged into one driver.

@item dvbm(4)
The @manpage{dvbm(4)} module is a device access module that is pushed over a @manpage{dlgn(4)}
driver Stream.

The bulk data module buffers media data from and to the @manpage{dlgn(4)} driver.  It is configured
by the host runtime libraries (which can be configured by the application via setparm API).  The
configuration sets the flow of data between @manpage{dlgn(4)} and host.

@item sctmr(4)
The @manpage{sctmr(4)} module is a timer module that is pushed over a @* @manpage{dlgn(4)} driver
Stream (but may also be pushed over a null Stream such as @manpage{nuls(4)}).

The timer module is used by the global call libraries to keep time in kernel mode.  No other
functionality is performed by this driver.  It has no interaction with the board or the other
drivers.

@item pmacd(4)
The @manpage{pmacd(4)} driver is a non-STREAMS driver for the Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} IPT family
of boards.

The packet media access card driver, @manpage{pmacd(4)}, is a straightforward driver for the IPT
family of boards based on Intelligent Input-Output (I2O) technology.  It provides all the driver
interfaces, namely the user, driver interfaces.  This driver only supports messaging based on the
IPT protocol and Streaming is not supported on the IPT boards.  This makes the PMAC driver simple and
efficient since there is not much processing required at the driver level.  The driver uses DPC and
a 40 millisecond timer.

@item ctimod(4)
The @manpage{ctimod(4)} kernel module is a CTI wrapper module that provides wrappers of kernel
functions for use principally by the @* @manpage{pmacd(4)} driver.

@manpage{ctimod(4)} provides an interface to kernel level services through a thin layer of
abstraction calls.  This is available only on the PMAC driver.
@end table

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package includes kernel modules, @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS}
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and development environment for the
development and execution of @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} components and applications for the
@cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS} environment.

This distribution is only currently applicable to @cite{Linux} 2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted
at @code{ix86}, @code{x86_64}, @code{ppc} and @code{ppc64} architectures, but should build and
install for other architectures as well.

