@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo nocin nosi tw=100 fo+=tcqlorn
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.24 2008-11-04 09:07:22 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008-11-04 09:07:22 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.3::		Release 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.2::		Release 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1::		Release 1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

@quotation
@b{Note Well:} This release has never been publicly released.  This subpackage is no longer
maintained by the OpenSS7 Project.
@end quotation

This is the fourth @cite{OpenSS7 Project} release of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  The
package provides @manref{dlgn(4)}, @manref{mercd(4)} and @manref{pmacd(4)} device drivers, as well
as @manref{dvbm(4)} and @manref{sctmr(4)} modules.  Additional drivers are the @manref{gncfd(4)} and
@manref{gpio(4)} modules.  The package contains all the necessary manual pages and other
documentation for components in an OpenSS7-style @manref{autoconf(1)} tarball.

THis release is the fourth public release.  The release includes maintenance suport for recent
distributions, production kernels and tool chain, but also includes feature upgrades and bug fixes.
It deprecates previous releases: please upgrade before reporting bugs on previous releases.

Major features since the last public release are:

@itemize -
@item
Documentation license upgraded to GFDL 1.3.

@item
Updated tool chain to @file{m4-1.4.13}, @file{automake-1.10.2}, @file{bison-2.4.1},
@file{libtool-2.2.6a}, @file{texinfo-4.13a}.

@end itemize

@emph{This is a public alpha release of the package: it deprecates previous
releases.  Please see @file{README-alpha} in the release, or @refman{Maturity}.}

This is a public alpha release of the package.  This package is complete but untested.  It is being
released for testing by the community.  If you are interested in testing of this package, contact
@email{info@@openss7.com}.

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs and builds RPMs and DEBs
for a wide range of Linux 2.4 and 2.6 @manref{rpm(8)} and @manref{dpkg(1)} based distributions, and
can be used on production kernels without patching or recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released strictly under the @cite{GNU Affero General Public License Version
3}; however, commercial licensing is available.  The release is available as an @manref{autoconf(1)}
tarball, SRPM, DSC, and a set of binary RPMs and DEBs for popular distributions.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html,package page} for the @mantype{autoconf(1)}
tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and binary RPMs and DEBs.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/repos.html,repository page} for information concerning network
installation and update sources.

See @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog,ChangeLog} and
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS,NEWS} in the release for
more information.  Also, see the @file{@value{PACKAGE}.pdf} manual in the release (also in
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html,html}).

For the news release, see @uref{http://www.openss7.org/rel20081029_M.html}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.3

This is the third @cite{OpenSS7 Project} release of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package.
This package provides @file{dlgn}, @file{mercd} and @file{pmacd} device drivers, as well as a
@file{dvbm} and @file{sctmr} module.  Additional drivers are the @file{gncfd} and @file{gpio}
modules.
The package contains all the necessary manual pages and other documentation for components in a
separate autoconf tarball.

This release is the third public release.
The release includes maintenance support for recent distributions and tool chain, but also includes
some performance and feature upgrades and inspection bug fixes.
It deprecates previous releases.  Please upgrade before reporting bugs on previous releases.

This release is primarily a maintenance release.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Minor documentation corrections.

@item
Kernel module license made explicit "GPL v2".  And then changed back to "GPL".

@item
License upgrade to @cite{AGPL Version 3}.

@item
Modifications to build under @cite{Fedora} @samp{2.6.22.5-49} kernel.  These changes also support
@samp{2.6.22.9-91.fc7} kernel.
Changed deprecated @constant{SA_SHIRQ} flag to @constant{IRQF_SHARED}; use
@command{pci_register_driver()} instead of obsolete @command{pci_module_init()}.

@item
Ability to strap out major documentation build and installation primarily for embedded targets.

@item
Improvements to common build process for embedded and cross-compile targets.

@item
Modifications to build under @cite{Fedora} @samp{2.6.25-45.fc9} and @samp{2.6.26.5-45.fc9} kernels.

@item
Updated tool chain to @file{m4-1.4.12}, @file{autoconf-2.63} and @file{texinfo-4.13}.

@item
Conversion of RPM spec files to common approach for major subpackages.

@item
Updated references database for manual pages and roff documents.

@item
Build system now builds @mantype{yum(8)} repositories for RPMs and @mantype{apt-get(8)} repositories
for DEBs.  Installation documentation has been updated to include details of repository install
sourcesref.

@item
Added @constant{MODULE_VERSION} to all modules and drivers.

@item
Build corrections for recent RHAS4 kernels that define an @code{irq_handler_t} that takes a 3
arguments function template.

@end itemize

@emph{This is a public alpha release of the package: it deprecates previous
releases.  Please see @file{README-alpha} in the release, or @refman{Maturity}.}

This is a public alpha release of the package.  This package is complete but untested.  It is being
released for testing by the community.  If you are interested in testing of this package, contact
@email{info@@openss7.com}.

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs and builds RPMs and DEBs
for a wide range of Linux 2.4 and 2.6 RPM- and DPKG-based distributions, and can be used on
production kernels without patching or recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released under the @cite{GNU Affero General Public License Version 3}.  The
release is available as an @command{autoconf} tarball, SRPM, DSC, and set of binary RPMs and DEBs.
See the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html,downloads page} for the @command{autoconf}
tarballs, SRPMs and DSCs.  For tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and binary RPMs and DEBs, see the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html,@value{PACKAGE} package page}.

See @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog} and
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS} in the release for more
information.  Also, see the @file{@value{PACKAGE}.pdf} manual in the release (also in html
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html}).

For the news release, see @uref{http://www.openss7.org/rel20081029_M.html}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.2
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.2

This is the second release from @cite{The OpenSS7 Project} of the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  This package provides @file{dlgn},
@file{mercd} and @file{pmacd} device drivers, as well as a @file{dvbm} and
@file{sctmr} module.  Additional drivers are the @file{gncfd} and @file{gpio}
modules.  The package contains all the necessary manual pages and other
documentation for components in an autoconf tarball.

This release is the second public release.

@itemize -
@item
Support build on openSUSE 10.2.

@item
Support build on Fedora 7 with 2.6.21 kernel.

@item
Support build on CentOS 5.0 (RHEL5).

@item
Support build on Ubuntu 7.04.

@item
Changes to support build on 2.6.20-1.2307.fc5 and 2.6.20-1.2933.fc6 kernel.

@item
Supports build on Fedora Core 6.

@item
Support for recent distributions and tool chains.

@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1

This is the first release from @cite{The OpenSS7 Project} of the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  This package provides @file{dlgn},
@file{mercd} and @file{pmacd} device drivers, as well as a @file{dvbm} and
@file{sctmr} module.  Additional drivers are the @file{gncfd} and @file{gpio}
modules.  The package contains all the necessary manual pages and other
documentation for components in an autoconf tarball.

This release is the initial public release.

@itemize -
@item
In this initial release, the package already supports a wide range of production
distributions as it uses the same build environment as other OpenSS7 Project
packages.

@item
Added versions to all exported symbols.  Made LFS unique functions GPL export.

@item
Improvements to the common build environment with better support for standalone
package builds on 2.4 kernels.

@item
Support for most recent 2.6.18 kernels (including Fedora Core 5 with inode diet
patchset).

@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
