% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: osr61.texi,v 0.9.2.8 2008-04-25 11:50:44 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (C) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
% Copyright (C) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-25 11:50:44 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================

\input texinfo
@setfilename osr61.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}

@dircategory STREAMS
@direntry
* OpenSS7 OSR: (@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}).	An Open STREAMS OSR Package.
@end direntry

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file provides the @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of the
@cite{@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2007  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2005 @uref{http://www.intel.com/, Intel}

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results,
provided the printed manual carries copying permission notice identical to
this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this paragraph not being
relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the above conditions for modified versions.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual

@ignore
@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@end ignore
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <@uref{http://www.openss7.com/}> @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> @*
All Rights Reserved. @*

@noindent
Published by OpenSS7 Corporation @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
This is texinfo edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
manual, and is consistent with @value{PACKAGE_NAME} @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}.
This manual was developed under the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7
Project} and was funded in part by
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation}.

@noindent
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the same conditions as for modified versions.

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@page

@c Define an index of authors.
@defindex au

@c Define an index of makefile targets
@defcodeindex mk

@c Define an index of configure output variables.
@c @defcodeindex ov

@c Define an index of configure variables.
@c @defcodeindex cv

@c Define an index of options.
@defcodeindex op

@c Define an index of targets.
@c @defcodeindex tr

@c Define an index of commands.
@c @defcodeindex cm

@c Put the macros and variables into their own index.
@c @syncodeindex fn cp
@c @syncodeindex ov vr
@c @syncodeindex cv vr
@c @syncodeindex fn vr

@c Put everything else into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the concept index).
@c @syncodeindex op cp
@c @syncodeindex tr cp
@c @syncodeindex cm cp

@c An index of manual pages
@defcodeindex mp

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@unnumbered About This Manual
This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of @cite{The
@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Preface::			Preface to this manual

* Quick Start Guide::		Quick Installation Instructions

* Introduction::		Introduction to the package
* Objective::			Objective of the package
* Reference::			Contents of the package
* Conformance::			Conformance of the package
* Releases::			Releases of the package
* Installation::		Installation of the package
* Troubleshooting::		Troubleshooting of the package

* Licenses::			Copies of OpenSource Licenses

* Indices::			Index of Indices

 ----- detailed node listing -----

Preface

* Notice::			Notices for this package
* Abstract::			Abstract for this manual
* Revisions::			Revisions of this manual
* Disclaimer::			IPR Disclaimers for this package
* Acknowledgements::		Sponsors of and Contributors to the package
* Authors::			Authors of the package
* Maintainer::			Maintainers of the package
* Web Resources::		Web Resources for the package

Introduction

* Overview::			Overview
* Organization::		Organization
* Conventions::			Conventions

Objective

Reference

* Files::			Files included in the package
* Drivers::			Drivers included in the package
* Modules::			Modules included in the package
* Libraries::			Libraries included in the package
* Utilities::			Utilities included in the package
* Development::			Development against the package

Conformance

* STREAMS Compatibility::	Compatibility with other STREAMS packages
* Porting::			Porting to this STREAMS package

Releases

* Prerequisites::		Prerequisite packages
* Compatibility::		Compatibility Issues
* Release Notes::		Release Notes
* Maturity::			Package Maturity
* Bugs::			Package Defects
* Schedule::			Development and Bug Fix Schedule
* History::			Project History

Installation

* Downloading::			Downloading the package
* Configuration::		Configuration of the package
* Building::			Building the package
* Installing::			Installing the package
* Removing::			Removing the package
* Loading::			Loading the package
* Maintenance::			Maintaining the package

Troubleshooting

* Test Suites::			Test Suites for the package
* Problem Reports::		Problem Reports for the package
* Known Problems::		Known Probelms with the package

Appendices

Licenses

* GNU Affero General Public License::		The AGPL license
* GNU General Public License::			The GPL license
* GNU Lesser General Public License::		The LGPL license
* GNU General Public License Version 2::	The GPL v2 license
* GNU Free Documentation License::		The FDL license

Indices

* Concept Index::		Index of Concepts
* Type Index::			Index of Data Types
* Function Index::		Index of Functions and Macros
* Variable Index::		Index of Variables and Constants
* File Index::			Index of Files and Programs
* Option Index::		Index of Configuration Options
* Makefile Target Index::	Index of Makefile Targets
* Author Index::		Index of Authors
* Manual Page Index::		Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@end menu

@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@menu
* Notice::			Notices for this package
* Abstract::			Abstract for this manual
* Revisions::			Revisions of this manual
* Disclaimer::			IPR Disclaimers for this package
* Acknowledgements::		Sponsors of and Contributors to the package
* Authors::			Authors of the package
* Maintainer::			Maintainers of the package
* Web Resources::		Web Resources for the package
@end menu

@node Notice
@unnumberedsec Notice
@cindex manual notice
@cindex licensing

This version of @command{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}} is a version of the Dialogic@registeredsymbol{}
Open System Release 6.1 GPL drivers, modified by @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, The OpenSS7 Project}
to support the package using @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} instead of the deprecated @cite{LiS}.

This package is released and distributed under the @cite{GNU Affero General Public License} (@pxref{GNU
Affero General Public License}).  Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for the
manual pages and some of the documentation (derived from publications and other sources).  Consult
the permission notices contained in the documentation for more information.

This manual is released under the @cite{FDL} (@pxref{GNU Free Documentation License}) with all
sections invariant.

@node Abstract
@unnumberedsec Abstract
@cindex manual abstract

This manual provides a @cite{@value{MANUAL_TYPE}} for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

@unnumberedsubsec Objective
@cindex manual objective

The objective of this manual is to provide a guide for the @dfn{STREAMS} programmer when
developing @dfn{STREAMS} modules, drivers and application programs for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

This guide provides information to developers on the use of the @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism at user and
kernel levels.

@dfn{STREAMS} was incorporated in UNIX System V Release 3 to augment the character input/output
(I/O) mechanism and to support development of communication services.

@dfn{STREAMS} provides developers with integral functions, a set of utility routines, and facilities
that expedite software design and implementation.

@unnumberedsubsec Intent
@cindex manual intent

The intent of this manual is to act as an introductory guide to the @dfn{STREAMS} programmer.  It
is intended to be read alone and is not intended to replace or supplement the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} manual pages.  For a reference for writing code, the manual pages
(see @manref{STREAMS(9)}) provide a better reference to the programmer.
Although this describes the features of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package,
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any software,
system or feature listed herein.

@unnumberedsubsec Audience
@cindex manual audience

This manual is intended for a highly technical audience.  The reader should already be familiar
with @cite{Linux} kernel programming, the @cite{Linux} file system, character devices, driver input
and output, interrupts, software interrupt handling, scheduling, process contexts, multiprocessor
locks, etc.

The guide is intended for network and systems programmers, who use the @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism at
user and kernel levels for @cite{Linux} and @cite{UNIX} system communication services.

Readers of the guide are expected to possess prior knowledge of the @cite{Linux} and @cite{UNIX}
system, programming, networking, and data communication.

@node Revisions
@unnumberedsec Revisions
@cindex manual revisions

Take care that you are working with a current version of this manual: you will not be notified of
updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current version, contact the
@uref{mailto:bidulock@@openss7.org,Author}, or check @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,The OpenSS7
Project} website for a current version.

A current version of this manual is normally distributed with the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package, @command{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}}.@footnote{@url{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2}}

@unnumberedsubsec Version Control

@smallexample

$Log: osr61.texi,v $
Revision 0.9.2.8  2008-04-25 11:50:44  brian
- updates to AGPLv3

Revision 0.9.2.7  2007/08/15 05:10:22  brian
- GPLv3 updates

Revision 0.9.2.6  2007/08/12 06:43:52  brian
- updated licenses in manuals

Revision 0.9.2.5  2007/06/22 00:18:25  brian
- mostly documentation updates for release, some netconfig workaround

Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/03/04 10:00:31  brian
- updates for release, do not propagate empty flags, build improvements

Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/02/28 06:30:25  brian
- updates and corrections, #ifdef instead of #if

Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/02/27 08:38:35  brian
- release corrections for 2.4 kernel builds

Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/02/25 12:45:12  brian
- added new files for release package


@end smallexample

@unnumberedsubsec ISO 9000 Compliance

Only the @TeX{}, texinfo, or roff source for this manual is controlled.  An opaque (printed,
postscript or portable document format) version of this manual is an @strong{UNCONTROLLED
VERSION}.

@node Disclaimer
@unnumberedsec Disclaimer
@cindex manual disclaimer

@noindent
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all
implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title;
that the contents of the manual are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} be liable for any direct, indirect, special or
consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with
any use of this manual or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.

@noindent
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any
reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies,
utilization of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the
design of any techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  @cite{OpenSS7
Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@unnumberedsubsec U.S. Government Restricted Rights

If you are licensing this Software on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it is
classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to
the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government is
acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights customarily provided to
non-Government users).  If the Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other
than DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights in the
Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any
successor regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to
the FAR (or any successor regulations).

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Acknowledgements
@unnumberedsec Acknowledgements
@cindex credits

@include texi/funding.texi

@node Authors
@unnumberedsec Authors
@cindex authors

The authors of the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package include:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @url{http://www.dialogic.com/, Dialogic Corporation}
@auindex Dialogic Corporation
@item @tab @minus{} @url{http://www.intel.com/, Intel}
@auindex Intel
@item @tab @minus{} @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
@auindex Bidulock, Brian
@end multitable

See @refman{Author Index}, for a complete listing and cross-index of authors to
sections of this manual.

@node Maintainer
@unnumberedsec Maintainer
@cindex maintainer

The maintainer of this modified @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
@end multitable

Please send bug reports to @email{@value{PACKAGE_BUGREPORT}} using the @file{send-pr} script
included in the package, only after reading the @file{BUGS} file in the release, or @xrefman{Problem
Reports}.

@node Web Resources
@unnumberedsec Web Resources
@cindex web resources

@include texi/mail.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Quick Start Guide
@unnumbered Quick Start Guide
@cindex quick start guide

@include texi/quick.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@cindex introduction

This manual documents the design, implementation, installation, operation and future development
schedule of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Overview::			Overview
* Organization::		Organization
* Conventions::			Conventions
@end menu

@ignore
@node Notice
@section Notice
@cindex notice
@cindex licensing

This version of @command{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}} is a version of the Dialogic@registeredsymbol{}
Open System Release 6.1 GPL drivers, modified by @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, The OpenSS7 Project}
to support the package using @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} instead of the deprecated @cite{LiS}.

This package is released and distributed under the @cite{AGPL} (@pxref{GNU Affero General Public
License}).  Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for the manual pages and
some of the documentation (derived from publications and other sources).  Consult the permission
notices contained in the documentation for more information.

This manual is released under the @cite{FDL} (@pxref{GNU Free Documentation License}) with all
sections invariant.
@end ignore

@node Overview
@section Overview
@cindex overview

This manual documents the design, implementation, installation, operation and future development of
the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@ignore
Insert a brief description here of the OSR61 drivers.
@end ignore

@node Organization
@section Organization of this Manual
@cindex organization

This manual is organized (loosely) into several sections as follows:

@ifnottex
@menu
  Introduction::		This introduction
* Objective::			Objective of the package
* Reference::			Contents of the package
* Conformance::			Conformance of the package
* Releases::			Releases of the package
* Installation::		Installation of the package
* Troubleshooting::		Troubleshooting of the package
@end menu
@end ifnottex
@ifnotinfo
@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @ref{Introduction}.
@tab This introduction
@item @ref{Objective}.
@tab Objective of the package
@item @ref{Reference}.
@tab Contents of the package
@item @ref{Conformance}.
@tab Conformance of the package
@item @ref{Releases}.
@tab Releases of the package
@item @ref{Installation}.
@tab Installation of the package
@item @ref{Troubleshooting}.
@tab Troubleshooting of the package
@end multitable
@end ifnotinfo
@ifplaintext
@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @cite{Introduction}.
@tab This introduction
@item @cite{Objective}.
@tab Objective of the package
@item @cite{Reference}.
@tab Contents of the package
@item @cite{Conformance}.
@tab Conformance of the package
@item @cite{Releases}.
@tab Releases of the package
@item @cite{Installation}.
@tab Installation of the package
@item @cite{Troubleshooting}.
@tab Troubleshooting of the package
@end multitable
@end ifplaintext

@node Conventions
@section Conventions and Definitions
@cindex conventions
@cindex definitions

This manual uses @cite{texinfo} typographic conventions.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Objective
@chapter Objective
@cindex objective

The objective for creating the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package was to provide support for
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} to the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} GPL drivers.  Originally, these
drivers worked with @cite{LiS}, but as @cite{LiS} is deprecated and buggy and does not support
recent Linux distributions, it became necessary to support these drivers using @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package also demonstrates the ease with which former @cite{LiS}
drivers can be ported to the production @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  The entire port from concept to
completed package was performed in under 5 days.

The only component for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} release that is released by
@url{http://www.opensystemrelease.com/, Dialogic} under the AGPL (@pxref{GNU Affero General Public License})
are the core drivers for the release under Linux.  The original driver package can be obtained from
the @file{osr61_239_GPLdrivers.tgz} tarball from the @url{http://www.opensystemrelease.com/,
Dialogic Website}.  The runtime libraries that make the drivers useful are released under far more
restrictive terms and are, therefore, only available directly from
@url{http://www.opensystemrelease.com/, Dialogic}.

@cite{The OpenSS7 Project} currently does not have any applications or @dfn{STREAMS} modules that
depend upon the availability of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package, and this is one of the
reasons that this package is initially untested (the @manref{test-osr61(8)} test suite is
incomplete).  Nevertheless, it has all of the components of a fully functional OSR61 driver release
and can easily be tested against exiting (even binary) runtime libraries and applications.  If you
have applications or modules that required the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package, contact
@cite{The OpenSS7 Project} about advancing testing of this package.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@node Reference
@chapter Reference
@cindex reference

This chapter provides a reference to the contents of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} package.
Please note that this @command{texinfo} documentation is not updated as regularly as the manual
pages.  For a more up to date package reference, please begin with the @manref{@value{PACKAGE}(5)}
manual page (that documents the package).

@menu
* Files::			Files included in the package
* Drivers::			Drivers included in the package
* Modules::			Modules included in the package
* Libraries::			Libraries included in the package
* Utilities::			Utilities included in the package
* Development::			Development against the package
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Files
@section Files
@cindex headers

@include tree.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Drivers
@section Drivers
@cindex drivers

The configuration of @dfn{STREAMS} drivers is performed when compiling the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} subsystem.  The @dfn{OSR61} subsystem, core drivers are part of every
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} system.

Kernel modules are installed by the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package in the
@file{/lib/modules/@value{_kversion}/@value{PACKAGE}/} directory, with either a @samp{.o} or
@samp{.ko} extension.@footnote{The kernel version, @samp{@value{_kversion}} is just an example.
When installed with a @samp{.ko} extension, dashes (@samp{-}) are also changed to underscores
(@samp{_}).}

The following lists the core drivers, @dfn{STREAMS} kernel tunable parameters, and @dfn{STREAMS}
configuration information:@footnote{Note that documentation of @dfn{OSR61} drivers is in the form of
manual pages in Section 4 of the manual pages with the same name as the driver.}

@table @asis

@item @manpage{dlgn(4)} (@file{streams-dlgnDriver})
@pgindex streams-dlgnDriver

See @manref{dlgn(4)} for more information.

@item @manpage{gncfd(4)} (@file{streams-gncfdDriver})
@pgindex streams-gncfdDriver

See @manref{gpio(4)} for more information.

@item @manpage{gpio(4)} (@file{streams-gpioDriver})
@pgindex streams-gpioDriver

See @manref{gpio(4)} for more information.

@item @manpage{mercd(4)} (@file{streams-mercdDriver})
@pgindex streams-mercdDriver

See @manref{mercd(4)} for more information.

@item @manpage{pmacd(4)} (@file{pmacd})
@pgindex pmacd

See @manref{pmacd(4)} for more information.

@end table

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Modules
@section Modules
@cindex modules

The configuration of @dfn{STREAMS} modules is performed when compiling the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} subsystem.  The @dfn{OSR61} subsystem, core modules are part of every
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} system.

Kernel modules are installed by the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package in the
@file{/lib/modules/@value{_kversion}/@value{PACKAGE}/} directory, with either a @samp{.o} or
@samp{.ko} extension.@footnote{The kernel version, @samp{@value{_kversion}} is just an example.
When installed with a @samp{.ko} extension, dashes (@samp{-}) are also changed to underscores
(@samp{_}).}

The following lists the core modules, @dfn{STREAMS} kernel tunable parameters, and @dfn{STREAMS}
configuration information:@footnote{Note that documentation of @dfn{OSR61} modules is in the form of
manual pages in Section 4 of the manual pages with the same name as the modules.}

@table @asis

@item @manpage{dvbm(4)} (@file{streams-dvbmDriver})
@pgindex streams-dvbmDriver

See @manref{dvbm(4)} for more information.

@item @manpage{sctmr(4)} (@file{streams-sctmrDriver})
@pgindex streams-sctmrDriver

See @manref{sctmr(4)} for more information.

@item @manpage{ctimod(4)} (@file{ctimod})
@pgindex ctimod

See @manref{ctimod(4)} for more information.

@end table

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Libraries
@section Libraries
@cindex libraries

Although the @cite{Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Open System Release 6.1} contains a number of runtime
libraries for talking to the @dfn{STREAMS} drivers, these libraries carry restrictive licensing
terms and are not included in this package.   To compile the libraries, download the runtime library
releases from the @url{http://www.opensystemrelease.com/, Dialogic Website} and compile them yourself.

Existing binary runtime libraries and applications should not have to be recompiled to use the
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} drivers.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Utilities
@section Utilities
@cindex utilities

@menu
* Init Scripts::
* User Utilities::
* Administrative Utilities::
* Performance Test Programs::
* Conformance Test Programs::
@end menu

@node Init Scripts
@subsection Init Scripts
@cindex init scripts

Following are System V Init Scripts that are installed by the package:

@table @asis

@item @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(8)} (@file{/etc/init.d/@value{PACKAGE}})
@pgindex @value{PACKAGE}
@pgindex /etc/init.d/@value{PACKAGE}
@itemx @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}.sh(8)} (@file{/etc/init.d/@value{PACKAGE}.sh})
@pgindex @value{PACKAGE}.sh
@pgindex /etc/init.d/@value{PACKAGE}.sh

System V Init Script for the @dfn{OSR61} Subsystem.
The @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(8)} init script provides the ability to initialize, configure and mount the
@dfn{OSR61} subsystem, @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(5)}.
The @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(8)} script provides the RedHat-style init script, whereas the
@manpage{@value{PACKAGE}.sh(8)} script provides the Debian-style init script.

See @manref{@value{PACKAGE}(8)} for more information.

@end table

@node User Utilities
@subsection User Utilities
@cindex user utilities

Following are user utilities for manipulating @dfn{Streams}:

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} package does not currently contain any user utilities.


@node Administrative Utilities
@subsection Administrative Utilities
@cindex administrative utilities

Following are administrative utilities for manipulating and examining the @dfn{OSR61} subsystem:

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} package does not currently contain any administrative utilities.

@node Performance Test Programs
@subsection Performance Test Programs
@cindex performance test programs

Following are performance test programs:

@c @table @asis
@c @end table

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} package does not currently contain any performance test programs.

@node Conformance Test Programs
@subsection Conformance Test Programs
@cindex conformance test programs

Following and conformance and validation testing programs:

@table @asis

@item @manpage{test-osr61(8)} (@file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE}/test-osr61})
@pgindex test-osr61
@pgindex /usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE}/test-osr61

The @manpage{test-osr61(8)} C-language program is a conformance and validation test program, in the
OpenSS7 Project style, for the
@manpage{sctmr(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} module.

See @manref{test-osr61(8)} for more information.

@end table

For the proper way to execute these validation test programs in a conformance and validation test
suite, see @refman{Running Test Suites}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@node Development
@section Development
@cindex developing

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} package contains the necessary header files, shared and static
libraries, manuals and manual pages necessary for the development of kernel modules, @dfn{STREAMS}
modules and drivers, and applications programs based on the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} package.

@menu
* Development Header Files::
* Static and Shared Libraries::
* Kernel Module Development::
* Manual Pages::
@end menu

@node Development Header Files
@subsection Header Files

Header files are installed, typically, in the @file{/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}}
subdirectory.@footnote{One of the major reasons for using this non-standard subdirectory is to avoid
conflict with header files already located in the @file{/usr/include} directory.} To use the header
files from the package, @samp{-I/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}} must be included in the @command{gcc}
command line as a compile option.  This is true regardless of whether user space or kernel space
programs are being compiled.

In general, @samp{-I} include directives on the @command{gcc} command line should be ordered in the
reverse order of the dependencies between packages.  So, for example, if the include files from all
add-on packages are required, the order of these directives would be: @samp{-I/usr/include/strss7
-I/usr/include/strsctp -I/usr/include/strinet -I/usr/include/strxnet -I/usr/include/strxns
-I/usr/include/strcompat -I/usr/include/streams}.

@ignore
Following are the user visible header files provided by the
@command{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}} package in directory @file{/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}}:

@table @file

@item sys/ttydev.h
@pgindex sys/ttydev.h
@pgindex /usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/sys/ttydev.h

This is a replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.

@item sys/termios.h
@pgindex sys/termios.h
@pgindex /usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/sys/termios.h

This is a replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.

@item sys/termio.h
@pgindex sys/termio.h
@pgindex /usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/sys/termio.h

This is a replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.

@item sys/sgtty.h
@pgindex sys/sgtty.h
@pgindex /usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/sys/sgtty.h

This is a replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.

@item sys/ttyio.h
@pgindex sys/ttyio.h
@pgindex /usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/sys/ttyio.h

This is a replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.

@item sys/strtty.h
@pgindex sys/strtty.h
@pgindex /usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/sys/strtty.h

This is a replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.

@item sys/ttychars.h
@pgindex sys/ttychars.h
@pgindex /usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/sys/ttychars.h

This is a replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.

@item sys/pty.h
@pgindex sys/pty.h
@pgindex /usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/sys/pty.h

See @manref{pty(4)} for more information.

@item ttychars.h
@pgindex ttychars.h
@pgindex /usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/ttychars.h

This is a replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.

@item ttcompat.h
@pgindex ttcompat.h
@pgindex /usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/ttcompat.h

See @manref{ttcompat(4)} for more information.

@item sgtty.h
@pgindex sgtty.h
@pgindex /usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/sgtty.h

This is a replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.

@item termios.h
@pgindex termios.h
@pgindex /usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/termios.h

This is a replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.

@item termio.h
@pgindex termio.h
@pgindex /usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/termio.h

This is a replacement for the standard @cite{SVR 4} header file.

@end table
@end ignore

@subsubsection User Space Programs

Typical include files for interacting with @dfn{STREAMS} from user space include the
@file{stropts.h} header file.  Additional header files for interacting with specific drivers or
modules may also be required.

@subsubsection Kernel Space Drivers and Modules

Typical include files for writing @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers for kernel space include the
@file{sys/cmn_err.h}, @file{sys/kmem.h}, @file{sys/dki.h}, @file{sys/stream.h}, @file{sys/ddi.h},
and @file{sys/strconf.h} header files.  Additional header files for interacting with specific
drivers or modules may also be required.

@node Static and Shared Libraries
@subsection Libraries

Shared or static versions of the @file{libstreams} library must be linked when using the
@command{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}} package.  This library must either be specified on the
@command{gcc} command line as a shared library (e.g. @samp{-lstreams}) or as a static library (e.g.
@samp{/usr/lib/libstreams.a}).

If the shared library is linked, include the following options on the @command{gcc} command line:

@table @asis

@end table

If the static library is linked, include the following options on the @command{gcc} command line:

@table @asis

@end table

@node Kernel Module Development
@subsection Kernel Modules

Developing @dfn{STREAMS} kernel modules is similar to user space programs with regard to header
files.  @file{/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}} should be placed as an include directory to search in
the @command{gcc} command line.  The rules for compiling @cite{Linux} kernel modules should be
followed.  In particular, several important intricacies should be considered:

@itemize @bullet

@item
The @command{gcc} compiler used to compile the kernel modules must be the same version of compiler
that was used to compile the kernel.

@item
The @command{gcc} command line must have the same compile flags that were used to compile the
kernel.

@item
The @command{gcc} command line must define several important kernel defines including
@samp{-DLINUX}, @samp{-D__KERNEL__}, as well as the base name of the module.

@item
The @command{gcc} command line must include several important include files directly on the command
line such as @samp{--include /@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-build/@-include/@-linux/@-autoconf.h} and
maybe even @samp{--include
/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-build/@-include/@-linux/@-modversions.h}.@footnote{The kernel version
@samp{@value{_kversion}} is just an example.  For the running kernel, use the output of @samp{uname
-r}.}

@end itemize

@node Manual Pages
@subsection Manual Pages

The @command{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}} package installs the following manual pages in the
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/} subdirectory:

@multitable @columnfractions .30 .70

@item @manref{dlgn(4)} -- @tab the DLGN @dfn{STREAMS} driver.
@item @manref{dvbm(4)} -- @tab the DVBM @dfn{STREAMS} module.
@item @manref{gncfd(4)} -- @tab the GNCFD @dfn{STREAMS} driver.
@item @manref{gpio(4)} -- @tab the GPIO @dfn{STREAMS} driver.
@item @manref{sctmr(4)} -- @tab the SCTMR @dfn{STREAMS} module.
@item @manref{mercd(4)} -- @tab the MERCD @dfn{STREAMS} driver.
@item @manref{pmacd(4)} -- @tab the PMACD driver.
@item @manref{ctimod(4)} -- @tab the CTIMOD kernel module.
@item @manref{osr61(5)} -- @tab @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.
@item @manref{osr61_mknod(8)} -- @tab create or remove OSR61 device nodes.
@item @manref{test-osr61(8)} -- @tab a test suite executable for @manpage{osr61(5)}.

@end multitable

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Conformance
@chapter Conformance
@cindex conformance

When modifying the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package, an attempt was made to maintain binary
compatibility and conformance for all of the drivers.
It should be noted that as the @cite{LiS} package against which these drivers were formerly compiled
is buggy and cannot support full 32-bit over 64-bit compatibility, the binary interface to, and
experienced behaviour of, the drivers may differ.

It is intended that conformance to specifications for the OSR61 interface be tested using the
@manref{test-osr61(8)} test case executable and the package @command{autotest} test suite; however,
at the time of writing these test programs are incomplete.

@ignore
When developing the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package, an attempt was made to maintain
compatibility and conformance across as many documented implementations of the @dfn{SVR 4 Terminal
Subsystem} as possible.  It is intended that conformance to specifications for the terminal
subsystem be tested using the @manref{test-tty(8)} test case executable and the package
@command{autotest} test suite; however, at the time of writing these test programs are incomplete.
@end ignore

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Releases
@chapter Releases
@cindex releases

@include releases.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Installation
@chapter Installation
@cindex installation

@include texi/install.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Troubleshooting
@chapter Troubleshooting
@cindex troubleshooting

@include texi/testsuite.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Licenses
@unnumbered Licenses
@cindex licenses

@menu
* GNU Affero General Public License::		The AGPL license
* GNU General Public License::			The GPL license
* GNU Lesser General Public License::		The LGPL license
* GNU General Public License Version 2::	The GPL v2 license
* GNU Free Documentation License::		The FDL license
@end menu

@page
@include texi/agpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/gpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/lgpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/gpl.texi
@page
@include texi/fdl.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Indices
@unnumbered Indices
@cindex indices

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Concept Index::		Index of Concepts
* Type Index::			Index of Data Types
* Function Index::		Index of Functions and Macros
* Variable Index::		Index of Variables and Constants
* File Index::			Index of Files and Programs
* Option Index::		Index of Configuration Options
* Makefile Target Index::	Index of Makefile Targets
* Author Index::		Index of Authors
* Manual Page Index::		Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Concept Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Concepts
@printindex cp

@page
@node Type Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Data Types
@printindex tp

@page
@node Function Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Functions and Macros
@printindex fn

@page
@node Variable Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Variables and Constants
@printindex vr

@page
@node File Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Files and Programs
@printindex pg

@page
@node Option Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Configuration Options
@printindex op

@page
@node Makefile Target Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Makefile Targets
@printindex mk

@page
@node Author Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Authors
@printindex au

@page
@node Manual Page Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@printindex mp

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye

@c ============================================================================
