@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: rpm.texi,v 0.9.2.2 2007/02/28 06:30:25 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/28 06:30:25 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c $Log: rpm.texi,v $
@c Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/02/28 06:30:25  brian
@c - updates and corrections, #ifdef instead of #if
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/02/25 12:45:12  brian
@c - added new files for release package
@c
@c =========================================================================

In addition, the following @command{rpm} options, specific to the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package are available:

@table @code
@item --without dlgn
@itemx --with dlgn
@opindex dlgn
Disable build of the @manpage{dlgn(4)} related Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Springware based firmware
boards.  The default is to build the @manpage{dlgn(4)}, and related drivers and modules, for the
Springware based boards (the interface based on @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} only).  Normally the
@manpage{dlgn(4)} driver @file{streams-dlgn} is built, however, building and installing the driver
can be disabled with this option.

@item --without dlgn-bri
@itemx --with dlgn-bri
@opindex dlgn-bri
Disable ISDN BRI support in the @manpage{dlgn(4)} driver for Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Springware
based firmware boards.  The default is to build the @manpage{dlgn(4)} drivers with BRI support,
however, the ISDN BRI support can be disabled with this option.

@item --without dlgn-isa
@itemx --with dlgn-isa
@opindex dlgn-isa
Disable ISA bus support in the @manpage{dlgn(4)} driver for Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Springware
based firmware boards.  The default is to build the @manpage{dlgn(4)} drivers with ISA bus support,
however, the ISA bus support can be disabled with this option.

@item --with dlgn-sba
@itemx --without dlgn-sba
@opindex dlgn-sba
Enable SBA support in the @manpage{dlgn(4)} driver for Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Springware based
firmware boards.  The default is to build the @manpage{dlgn(4)} drivers without SBA support,
however, the SBA support can be enabled with this option.

@item --with dlgn-msm
@itemx --without dlgn-msm
@opindex dlgn-msm
Enable multiple session managers per logical device for the @manpage{dlgn(4)} driver for
Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Srpingware based firmware boards.  The default is to build the
@manpage{dlgn(4)} driver without multiple session manager per logical device support, however, the
feature can be enabled with this option.

@item --without dlgn-isdn
@itemx --with dlgn-isdn
@opindex dlgn-isdn
Disable ISDN support in the @manpage{dlgn(4)} driver for Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Springware
based firmware boards.  The default is to build the @manpage{dlgn(4)} drivers with ISDN support,
however, the ISDN support can be disabled with this option.

@item --without dlgn-stats
@itemx --with dlgn-stats
@opindex dlgn-stats
Disable statistics support in the @manpage{dlgn(4)} driver for Dialogic@registeredsymbol{}
Springware based firmware boards.  The default is to build the @manpage{dlgn(4)} drivers with
statistics support, however, the statistics support can be disabled with this option.

@item --without antares
@itemx --with antares
@opindex antares
Disable build of the @manpage{dlgn(4)} driver and related modules and drivers for
Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Springware based firmware boards with Antares support.  The default is
to bild the @manpage{dlgn(4)} driver and related modules and drivers with Antares support.  Normally
the @manpage{dlgn(4)} driver is built without Antares support on Linux 2.6 kernels and with Antares
support on Linux 2.4 kernels.  This option can be used to disable Antares support which this package
builds on all kernels.

@item --with antares-rtdl
@itemx --without antares-rtdl
@opindex antares-rtdl
Enable remote download for for Antares cards in the @manpage{dlgn(4)} driver for
Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Springware firmware based boards.  The default is to build
@manpage{dlgn(4)} drivers without remote download support, however, the support can be enabled with
this option.

@item --without merc
@itemx --with merc
@opindex merc
Disable build of the @manpage{mercd(4)} Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Media III (DM3) based firmware
boards.  The default is to build the @manpage{mercd(4)} driver for the DM3 boards (the interface
based on @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} only).  Normally the @manpage{mercd(4)} driver
@file{streams-mercd} is built, however, building and installing the driver can be disabled with this
option.

@item --without mercd-pps
@itemx --with mercd-pps
@opindex mercd-pps
Disable PPS support for the @manpage{mercd(4)} Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Media III (DM3) based
firmware boards.  The default is to build the @manpage{mercd(4)} driver with PPS support, however,
this option can be used to the disable the feature.

@item --without mercd-dma
@itemx --with mercd-dma
@opindex mercd-dma
Disable SRAM DMA support for the @manpage{mercd(4)} Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Media III (DM3)
based firmware boards.  The default is to build the @manpage{mercd(4)} driver with SRAM DMA support,
however, this option can be used to disable the feature.

@item --with mercd-lid
@itemx --without mercd-lid
@opindex mercd-lid
Enable Logical ID support for the @manpage{mercd(4)} Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} Media II (DM3) based
firmware boards.  The default is to build the @manpage{mercd(4)} driver without logical ID support,
however, this feature can be enabled using this option.

@item --without pmac
@itemx --with pmac
@opindex pmac
Disable build of the @manpage{pmacd(4)} Dialogic@registeredsymbol{} packet media access cards based
on the IPT family.  The default is to build the @manpage{pmacd(4)} driver for the IPT boards.
Normally the @manpage{pmacd(4)} driver @file{pmacd} is built, however, building and installing the
driver can be disabled with this option.

@end table

