@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo nocin nosi
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: descrip.texi,v 0.9.2.5 2007/01/03 14:54:41 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/01/03 14:54:41 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is an implementation of the Internet Protocol suite for
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} directly over Linux NET4 Sockets implementation, using a @dfn{STREAMS}
over @dfn{Sockets} approach.  This permits modules to be pushed on UDP or TCP Streams and allows use
of the XTI/TLI library with Internet Protocols on Linux.  The package now also includes direct
@dfn{STREAMS} implementations of RAW IP and UDP, and will include direct implementations of TI
loopback devices and TCP in the future.

This @cite{OpenSS7 Project} release is another separate add-on package release of the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package that was formerly present in the (now deprecated) @cite{LiS}
package.  The networking drivers are provided, as well as the TPI and XTI header files for INET
and loopback operation.  The package contains all the necessary manual pakges and other
documentation for INET components in a spearate autoconf tarball.
This release is a stable, production grade release for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} and is part of the
OpenSS7 Master Package (@file{openss7-@value{VERSION_OPENSS7}}).

@ignore
The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package contains header files and a number of modules and drivers
and the associated documentation that were formerly contained in the @cite{OpenSS7 Linux STREAMS
(LiS)} releases.  When development started on @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} in 2003, these modules were
removed from the @cite{LiS} distribution and separated so that they could build against both the
@cite{LiS} and @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} packages from the same baseline code.

@end ignore
The package currently includes the following @dfn{STREAMS} kernel modules and drivers:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_inet.ko} @file{/dev/ip} @file{others}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_udp.ko} @file{/dev/udp2}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_rawip.ko} @file{/dev/rawip2}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_tcp.ko} @file{/dev/tcp2}
@end multitable

@table @manref
@item inet(4)
The @manpage{inet(4)} driver is a classical @dfn{STREAMS} over @dfn{Sockets} approach.  Transport
Provider Interface, @manref{tpi(7)}, Streams are interworked into a socket opened within the driver.
This approach has some serious disadvantages, one of them being speed.

@item udp2(4)
The @manpage{udp2(4)} driver is a second-generation @dfn{STREAMS} UPD driver.  This driver is mostly
a @dfn{STREAMS} implementation and only relies on the @cite{Linux} IP layer for operation.  No
socket is opened internal to the kernel.  This driver performs much faster than the @dfn{STREAMS}
over @dfn{Sockets} approach and rivals the native @dfn{Sockets} implemented under @cite{Linux} in
terms of performance.  This driver is well tested with the test-udp test case executable.

@item rawip2(4)
The @manpage{rawip2(4)} driver is a second-generation @dfn{STREAMS} raw IP driver.  It is similar to
the second-generation UDP driver.  This driver is well tested with the test-rawip test case
executable.

@item tcp2(4)
The @manpage{tcp2(4)} driver is a placeholder for a second-generation @dfn{STREAMS} TCP driver.

@end table

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package includes kernel modules, @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS}
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and development environment for the
development and execution of @cite{Internet Protocols (INET)} protocol stack components and
applications for the @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} environment.

This distribution is only currently applicable to @cite{Linux} 2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted
at @code{ix86}, @code{x86_64}, @code{ppc} and @code{ppc64} architectures, but should build and
install for other architectures as well.

