@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: todo.texi,v 0.9.2.5 2007/02/28 06:31:02 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/28 06:31:02 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

Things to do:

@itemize @minus
@item
Loop back devices (ticlts, ticots, ticotsord) are currently implemented in the @manpage{inet(4)}
driver using UNIX domain sockets and the XTI over sockets approach.  It should be straightforward to
implement these loopback devices directly in @dfn{STREAMS} without involving sockets.  These second
generation loopback drivers need to be written yet.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Implement pseudo-connection oriented modes in INET(4) driver as well as udp2(4) and rawip2(4)
drivers.  Document use of pseudo-connection oriented modes for UDP and RAWIP.  Pseudo-connection
oriented modes permit a connectionless (T_CLTS) provider such as udp to provide the appearance of
connection oriented service.  This makes conversion from the Sockets API to XTI API easier.

Note that this is also very applicable to MTP (quasi-associated signalling such as ISUP) and
SCCP protocol class 0 and 1 and TCAP.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
It might be worth retrying the netperf(1) performance test on the second generation UDP driver with
this pseudo-connection oriented mode in place.  You see, the netperf tests for UDP sockets performs
a connect(3).

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Implement pseudo-connectionless modes in INET(4) driver as well as sctp(4) drivers.  Document use of
pseudo-connectionless modes for SCTP (not really applicable to TCP).  Pseudo-connectionless modes
permit a connection-oriented (T_COTS) provider such as sctp to provide the appearance of
connectionless service.  This makes support for the SCTP one-to-many model easier.  Also, it
provides a way (t_sndudata(3), t_sndvudata(3), t_rcvudata(3), t_rcvvudata(3)) of passing options
associated with the packet to the provider either in a T_OPTDATA or in a T_UNITDATA.  This would
make support of SCTP's many per-packet options  more workable for XTI as well as providing a easier
translation between the sockets API and XTI API for sctp.

Note that this is also very applicable to SCCP protocol classes 2 and 3 and BSSAP.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Convert inet driver to use os7 common functions.  In fact, it might be a better idea to convert the
driver to use MPS common functions instead as we are now trying to move away from os7 common
functions.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Pure STREAMS RAW and UDP implementation.  A higher performance RAW and UDP implementation supporting
both TPI and NPI would be nice to have.  The OpenSS7 Project needs an NPI RAW implementation that
can tap UDP primarily for use with RTP.  Also, it will be interesting to test the performance
differences between STREAMS UDP and Sockets UDP.

@table @emph
@item *done*

udp2 and rawip2 drivers implemented and tested.  strxns package now has an np_ip driver for raw
access to IP (primarily for SCTP conformance testing).  RTP drivers should be based on udp2 driver.
@end table


@item
Connectionless testing using netperf competes well with connection-oriented sockets.  Need to still
modify netperf to use (pseudo-)connection-oriented UDP for better comparison.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
32bit compatibility testing.

@table @emph
@item *done*

Ran ix86 test suite binaries on x86_64.

(Note that 32bit over 64bit compatibility builds and conformance and validation testing is now a
constituent part of all packages.  32-bit libraries and test programs are built automatically and
multiple test runs of the test suite performed: once for native and once for compatibility.)
@end table


@item
SMP Testing.

@table @emph
@item *done*
  
What I did was to perform SMP testing for Intel Pentium IV 630 HT at least.

(Note that SMP testing on Pentium IV 630 HT is not a constituent part of the release cycle.)
@end table
@end itemize
