@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: tree.texi,v 0.9.2.7 2007/02/28 06:31:02 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/28 06:31:02 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c $Log: tree.texi,v $
@c Revision 0.9.2.7  2007/02/28 06:31:02  brian
@c - updates and corrections, #ifdef instead of #if
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.6  2007/01/08 16:23:33  brian
@c - final updates for release
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.5  2007/01/03 14:54:41  brian
@c - documentation updates for release
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/01/03 12:30:27  brian
@c - documentation updates for release
@c
@c =========================================================================

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} creates the following kernel modules files in the kernel modules
directory, @file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-}:@footnote{The kernel version
@samp{@value{_kversion}} is just and example.  For the running kernel, @samp{uname -r} is expected.}

@table @file
@item modules.@value{PACKAGE_LCNAME}
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following kernel module files in the kernel modules
directory, @file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:@footnote{The kernel
version @samp{@value{_kversion}} is just and example.  For the running kernel, @samp{uname -r} is
expected.}

@table @file
@item streams_inet.ko
Contains the @manref{inet(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} driver.
@item streams_udp.ko
Contains the @manref{udp(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} driver.
@item streams_rawip.ko
Contains the @manref{rawip(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} driver.
@item streams_tcp.ko
Contains the @manref{tcp(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} driver.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following header files in the system include directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-include/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:

@multitable @columnfractions .35 .35
@item @header{xti.h} @tab
@item @header{xti_inet.h} @tab @header{sys/xti_inet.h}
@item @tab @header{sys/xti_ip.h}
@item @tab @header{sys/xti_udp.h}
@item @tab @header{sys/xti_tcp.h}
@item @header{ticlts.h} @tab @header{sys/ticlts.h}
@item @header{ticots.h} @tab @header{sys/ticots.h}
@item @header{ticotsord.h} @tab @header{sys/ticotsord.h}
@item @header{sys/strinet/config.h} @tab
@item @header{sys/strinet/version.h} @tab
@end multitable

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following test programs in the system libexec directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-libexec/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:@footnote{Note that on some systems,
@file{/usr/libexec} does not exist, and @file{/usr/lib} is used instead.}

@table @file
@item send-pr
@itemx send-pr.config
The @command{send-pr} stand-alone shell script can be used for the automatic generation of problem
reports for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  The @file{send-pr.config} file provides
localized definitions used by the @command{send-pr} program.
For more information on problem reports, @xref{Problem Reports}, and, in particular, @xref{Stand
Alone Problem Reports}.
@item test-inet_raw
test case exectutable.
@item test-inet_udp
test case exectutable.
@item test-inet_tcp
test case exectutable.
@item testsuite
@itemx atlocal
The @command{testsuite} stand-alone shell script invokes test cases in the test programs above as
compiled into a comprehensive regression, troubleshooting and validation test suite for the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers.  The @file{atlocal} file provides localized definitions used
by the @command{testsuite} program.
For more information on test suites, @xref{Test Suites}, and, in particular, @xref{Running Test
Suites}.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following utility programs in the system binary
directory, @file{/@-usr/@-sbin/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod
This utility can be used by init scripts or administrative users to create or remove device nodes in
the @file{/dev} directory for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers.
@item inet_mkdev
@manpage{inet_mkdev(8)} script for creating @dfn{iBCS} devices.
@item inet_rmdev
@manpage{inet_mkdev(8)} script for removing @dfn{iBCS} devices.
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following user programs in the user binary
directory, @file{/@-usr/@-bin/@-}:

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following static and shared object libraries in the
system library directory, @file{/@-usr/@-lib/@-} (32-bit libraries) and @file{/@-usr/@-lib64/@-}
(64-bit libraries):

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following internationalization catalogues in
the internationalization directory, @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-locale/}:

@table @file
@item de/LC_MESSAGES/@value{PACKAGE}.mo
@end table
@end ignore

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following init scripts in the system init directory,
@file{/@-etc/@-rc.d/@-init.d/@-} (non-Debian) or @file{/@-etc/@-init.d/@-} (Debian):

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}
This is the name of the system init script on non-Debian based systems.
@item @value{PACKAGE}.sh
This is the name of the system init script on Debian based systems.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following system configuration files in the configuration
directory, @file{/@-etc/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.conf
This file provided configuration information for any system controls affected by the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.
@item modutils/@-@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides module definitions and demand loading aliases for the @file{@value{PACKAGE}}
package.  This file is really only applicable to older 2.4 kernels.
@item netconfig.d/@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides the @manpage{netconfig(5)} definitions for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
drivers.
@manpage{netconfig(5)} definitions are used by the @file{strnsl} package and the @file{libxnsl}
library.
@item sock2path.d/@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides the @manpage{sock2path(5)} definitions for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
drivers.
@manpage{sock2path(5)} definitions are used by the @file{strsock} package and the @file{libsocket}
library.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following system configuration file in the system
configuration directory, @file{/@-etc/@-sysconfig/@-} (non-Debian) or @file{/@-etc/@-default/@-}
(Debian):

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}
This file provides system configuration information used by init scripts for the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.  Some options of init script execution can be controlled by
this file.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following info files in the system info directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-info/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}.info
@itemx @value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}.info-1
@itemx @value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}.info-2
These files contain this manual in @cite{GNU info} format.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual page macros and reference database files in
the system man directory, @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-}:@footnote{Note that macro and reference
databse files are not installed if the package is configured for cooked manpages.}

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.macros
This file contains manual page macro definitions included by the manual pages included in the
package.
@item @value{PACKAGE}.refs
This file contains a reference database referenced by the manual pages included in the package.
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man1/@-}:

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man2/@-}:

@table @file
@end table
@end ignore

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man3/@-}:

@table @file
@item xti_ip.3
@item xti_udp.3
@item xti_tcp.3
@item t_kpalive.3
@item t_tcp_info.3
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man4/@-}:

@table @file
@item arp.4
@item egp.4
@item ggp.4
@item icmp.4
@item idp.4
@item inet.4
@item INET.4
@item ip.4
@item ipip.4
@item pup.4
@item rawip.4
@item rawip2.4
@item rip.4
@item tcp.4
@item tcp2.4
@item ticlts.4
@item ticots.4
@item ticots_ord.4
@item ticotsord.4
@item udp.4
@item udp2.4
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man5/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.5
manual page for the @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(5)} package.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man7/@-}:

@table @file
@item tpi_ip.7
@item tpi_udp.7
@item tpi_tcp.7
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man8/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod.8
Documentation for the @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}_mknod(8)} utility program.
@item test-inet_raw.8
@item test-inet_tcp.8
@item test-inet_udp.8
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man9/@-}:

@table @file
@end table
@end ignore

@ignore
/usr
/usr/include
/usr/include/strinet
/usr/include/strinet/sys
/usr/include/strinet/sys/strinet
/usr/include/strinet/sys/strinet/config.h
/usr/include/strinet/sys/strinet/version.h
/usr/include/strinet/sys/ticlts.h
/usr/include/strinet/sys/ticots.h
/usr/include/strinet/sys/ticotsord.h
/usr/include/strinet/sys/xti_inet.h
/usr/include/strinet/sys/xti_ip.h
/usr/include/strinet/sys/xti_udp.h
/usr/include/strinet/sys/xti_tcp.h
/usr/include/strinet/ticlts.h
/usr/include/strinet/ticots.h
/usr/include/strinet/ticotsord.h
/usr/include/strinet/xti.h
/usr/include/strinet/xti_inet.h
/usr/libexec
/usr/libexec/strinet
/usr/libexec/strinet/send-pr
/usr/libexec/strinet/send-pr.config
/usr/libexec/strinet/test-inet_raw
/usr/libexec/strinet/test-inet_udp
/usr/libexec/strinet/test-inet_tcp
/usr/libexec/strinet/testsuite
/usr/libexec/strinet/atlocal
/usr/sbin
/usr/sbin/inet_mkdev
/usr/sbin/inet_rmdev
/usr/sbin/strinet_mknod
/usr/lib
/usr/share
/usr/share/man
/usr/share/man/strinet.macros
/usr/share/man/strinet.refs
/usr/share/man/man3
/usr/share/man/man3/xti_ip.3
/usr/share/man/man3/xti_udp.3
/usr/share/man/man3/xti_tcp.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_kpalive.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_tcp_info.3
/usr/share/man/man4
/usr/share/man/man4/arp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/egp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/ggp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/icmp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/idp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/inet.4
/usr/share/man/man4/INET.4
/usr/share/man/man4/ip.4
/usr/share/man/man4/ipip.4
/usr/share/man/man4/pup.4
/usr/share/man/man4/rawip.4
/usr/share/man/man4/rawip2.4
/usr/share/man/man4/rip.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tcp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tcp2.4
/usr/share/man/man4/ticlts.4
/usr/share/man/man4/ticots.4
/usr/share/man/man4/ticots_ord.4
/usr/share/man/man4/ticotsord.4
/usr/share/man/man4/udp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/udp2.4
/usr/share/man/man7
/usr/share/man/man7/tpi_ip.7
/usr/share/man/man7/tpi_udp.7
/usr/share/man/man7/tpi_tcp.7
/usr/share/man/man8
/usr/share/man/man8/strinet_mknod.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-inet_raw.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-inet_tcp.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-inet_udp.8
/usr/share/info
/usr/share/info/strinet.info
/usr/share/info/strinet.info-1
/usr/share/info/strinet.info-2
/etc
/etc/strinet.conf
/etc/default
/etc/default/strinet
/etc/init.d
/etc/init.d/strinet.sh
/etc/modutils
/etc/netconfig.d
/etc/netconfig.d/strinet
/etc/sock2path.d
/etc/sock2path.d/strinet
/lib
/lib/modules
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strinet
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strinet/streams_inet.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strinet/streams_udp.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strinet/streams_rawip.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strinet/streams_tcp.ko
@end ignore
