'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: clone.4.man,v 1.1.4.5 2006/12/28 10:42:07 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/12/28 10:42:07 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: clone.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.4.5  2006/12/28 10:42:07  brian
.\" - a bit better make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.4.4  2006/04/05 09:42:35  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so lis.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CLONE 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B /dev/clone
\- the STREAMS clone driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.br
.B #include <fcntl.h>
.HP 8
.IB s " = open(" /dev/xxx_clone ", " 0 );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This driver is used to assist LiS in implementing the
.I clone
open function.  It appears under its
own name as
.BR /dev/clone_drvr .
By convention, it is allocated the first major number of all the
.IR STREAMS (4)
drivers.

To implement clone opens, one creates a node in the
.B /dev
directory for a device whose major number is set to that of the clone driver,
and whose minor number is the major number of the driver to which the clone open
is to be directed.

The clone driver's open routine forwards the open call to the target driver,
passing a unique flag that informs the driver that a clone open is being
requested.  The target driver then allocated a minor device number to uniquely
associate with this instance of the open operation.  The clone driver
synthesizes a new major/minor
.I device id
to pass back to LiS.  LiS recognizes the change of major/minor from the original
open and takes steps to allocate control structures unique to this open.

The
.I clone open
operation is intended to make is easy to open one device from a pool of devices,
such as pseudo ttys or logical connections.  It saves application programs from
having to scan a list of device mnemonics issuing trial opens until one is found
that succeeds.

Note that the driver is named
.B /dev/clone_drvr
instead of the more traditional SVR4
.BR /dev/clone .
This is to avoid a conflict with another driver named
.B /dev/clone
on Linux systems.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH CAVEATS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/clone_drvr
The clone driver device.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH "SEE ALSO"
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH VERSIONS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
svr42
.]
.[
svr4
.]
.[
svr3
.]
.[
LiS
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
David Grothe
.RB < dave@gcom.com >
.\"
.TI
