'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ap_env_file.5.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/11/06 11:43:19 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/06 11:43:19 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ap_env_file.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:19  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/01/05 06:26:19  brian
.\" - doc updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/12 13:06:23  brian
.\" - added package manual page
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_ENV_FILE 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ap_env_file
\- XAP Environment File
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This manual page defines the format of an ACSE/Presentation Library
initalizationa file.
.PP
An
.B ap_env_file
is an ASCII file contianing a list of XAP environment variable assignments.
It is used as input to the
.BR ap_osic (1)
command, which generates a compiled version of the assignments for use as an
environment initialization file by the
.BR ap_init_env (3)
function.  Support of the
.BR ap_osic (1)
command and the initialization of the XAP environment from an input file is
optional, so this mechanism may not be available in all implementations of
XAP.
.PP
Each
.B ap_env_file
file consists of the following types:
.IP \(bu \w'\(by\(em'u
Assignment paris of the form:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
<attribute-name> = <value>\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.sp
where
.B <attribute-name>
is the name of an XAP library environment attribute and
.B <value>
is a legal value for the attribute.
.IP \(bu
C-style comments (/* ... */) with the syntax and semantifcs defined by ISO C.
.IP \(bu
.B #include
lines with the syntax and semantics defined by the ISO C
preprocessor.
.IP \(bu
.B #define
lines with the syntax and semantics defined by the ISO c preprocessor for
the '#define identifier token-sequence' form.
.PP
An entry may be split across multiple lines by terminating intermediate lines
with a backslash character (\\).  Otherwise each entry must occupy a signle
line.
.PP
An
.B ap_env_file
file may contain assignments for any of the settable XAP Library environment
attribtutes.  The assignment pair may appear in any order provided each pair
begins on a new line.
.PP
As not all attributes are of the same type, the format of
.B <value>
depends upon the particular attribute being initialized.  The table that
follows lists all of the attributes that may be initialized in an
.B ap_env_file
file and the format each requires for the
.B <value>
component of its initialization pair.
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lblblb
lll.
Attribute\0Name:Type:Value\0Format
_
AP_ACSE_SEL:unsigned\0long:bitmask
AP_AFU_SEL:unsigned\0long:bitmask
AP_BIND_PADDR:ap_paddr_t:address
AP_CLD_AEID:ap_aei_api_id_t:encoded\0string
AP_CLD_AEQ:ap_aeq_t:encoded\0string
AP_CLD_APID:ap_aei_api_id_t:encoded\0string
AP_CLD_APT:ap_apt_t:encoded\0string
AP_CLD_CONN_ID:ap_conn_id_t:connection\0identifier
AP_CLG_AEID:ap_aei_api_id_t:encoded\0string
AP_CLG_AEQ:ap_aeq_t:encoded\0string
AP_CLG_APID:ap_aei_api_id_t:encoded\0string
AP_CLG_APT:ap_apt_t:encoded\0string
AP_CLG_CONN_ID:ap_conn_id_t:connection\0identifier
AP_CNTX_NAME:ap_objid_t:object\0identifier
AP_COPYENV:long:integer\0constant
AP_DPCN:ap_dcn_t:default\0context\0name
AP_FLAGS:unsigned\0long:bitmask
AP_INIT_SYNC_PT:unsigned\0long:integer\0constant
AP_INIT_TOKENS:unsigned\0long:bitmask
AP_LIB_SEL:unsigned\0long:bitmask
AP_MODE_SEL:long\0integer:constant
AP_PCDL:ap_cdl_t:context\0definition\0list
AP_PFU_SEL:unsigned\0long:bitmask
AP_PRES_SEL:unsigned\0long:bitmask
AP_QLEN:long\0integer:constant
AP_QOS:ap_qos_t:quality\0of\0service
AP_REM_PADDR:ap_paddr_t:address
AP_ROLE_ALLOWED:unsigned\0long:bitmask
AP_RSP_AEID:ap_aei_api_id_t:encoded\0string
AP_RSP_AEQ:ap_aeq_t:encoded\0string
AP_RSP_APID:ap_aei_api_id_t:encoded\0string
AP_RSP_APT:ap_apt_t:encoded\0string
AP_SESS_SEL:unsigned\0long:bitmask
AP_SFU_SEL:unsigned\0long:bitmask
_
.TE
.PP
Below is a description of the
.B <value>
formats specified in the preceding table.  Note that blanks, newlines,
horizontal and vertical tabs and form feeds in the
.B ap_env_file
file are considered
.I white space
and are ignored except as token separators.
.TP
.B Address
Values in this format must be given as
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
{ [p_selector], [s_selector], [t_selector], {{n_address}, [,{n_address}]*}}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.sp
where the components are defined as follows:
.sp
.TP
.I p_selector
A value in the octet string format of any length.
.TP
.I s_selector
A value in the octet string format whose length cannot exceed 16 octets.
.TP
.I t_selector
A value in the octet string format whose length cannot exceed 32 octets.
.TP
.I n_address
One or more network addresses may be specified here in a comma separated list.
Each network address is represented by a value in the octet string format
whose length is less than or equal to 20, followed by an integer constant
declaring the associated network type. When multiple network address
components are included in a presentation address, the specific network
address(es) chosen by the provider and the manner by which it is selected for
initiating or listening to connections is not specified by XAP and is a local
implementation issue.
.RE
.TP
.B Bitmask
Values in this format must be given as one or more items in the integer
constant format OR'ed together (C-style).
.TP
.B Connection\0Identifier
Values in this format must be given as a sequence of 3 values in the octet
string format enclosed in braces and separated by commas.  The 3 elements of
this sequence correspond, in order, to the Calling (or Called) SS-user
reference, Common reference, and Additional reference information components
of the session connecion identifier parameter.
.TP
.B Context\0Definition\0List
Values in this format must eb given as a sequence of comma-separated 3-tuples
enclosed in braces.  Each 3-tuple comprises the following comma-separated
elements:
.sp
.RS
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
a presentation context identifier in integer constant format,
.IP 2.
an abstract syntax name in object identifier format,
.IP 3.
a braced, comma separated sequence of transfer syntax names where each
transfer syntax name is in object identifier format.
.RE
.TP
.B Default\0Context\0Name
Values in this format must be given as a 2-tuple enclosed in braces.  The
first element of the 2-tupe is an abstract syntax name; the second is a
transfer syntax name.  Both elements must be in the object identifier format
and the two elements are separated by a comma.
.TP
.B Integer\0Constant
Values in this format must be given as one of the following:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
a decimal integer,
.IP \(bu
an octal integer (prefixed by 0),
.IP \(bu
a hexadecimal integer (prefixed by 0x or 0X),
.IP \(bu
a sybolic constant that is either defined by the user in the
.B ap_env_file
file (using
.BR #define ),
or defined in a file included in the
.B ap_env_file
file (using
.BR #include ).
.PP
Note that the constants in the
.B <xap.h>
file are included automatically.  Users are cautioned against redefining any
of the constants in that file.
.RE
.TP
.B Object\0Identifier
Values in this format must be given as a sequence of values in the integer
constant format that are separated by blanks and enclosed in braces.  The
following identifiers of OBJECT IDENTIFIER component values have been assiged
by ISO and CCITT and are recognized by
.BR ap_osic (1):
.sp
.RS
.RS
.BR iso ,
.BR standard ,
.BR registration_authority ,
.BR member_body ,
.BR identified_organization ,
.BR ccitt ,
.BR recommendation ,
.BR question ,
.BR administration ,
.BR network_operator ,
.BR joint_iso_ccitt ,
.BR asn1 ,
.BR basic_encoding
.RE
.PP
Note that the above identifiers use a "_" (underscore) character as a
separated instead of a "-" (hyphen).  For example, joint-iso-ccitt is defined
as joint_iso_ccitt.  Since the environment file format is "C" structure based,
using a "-" as a separator would constitute an expression and not a
definition.
Also, the user may define other identifier values by using the
.B #define
preprocessor construct.
.RE
.TP
.B Octet\0String
Values in this format must be given as either an even number of hexadecimal
digits or a legal C language string constant enclosed in braces.  Characters
in string constants will be treated as 8-bit values where bit 8 (MSB) is 0 and
the low order 7 bits correspond to the character's ASCII encoding.
.TP
.B Encoded\0String
Values in this format must be given as a single value in the octet string
format.  This octet string must correspond to a valid encoding of an ASN.1
type value.
.TP
.B Quality\0of\0Service
Values in this format must be given as
.sp
.RS
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
{ {throughput}, {transdel}, {reserrorrate},
  {transfailprob}, {estfailprob}, {relfailprob},
  {estdelay}, {reldelay}, {connresil},
  protection, priority, optimisedtrans, extcntl
}\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.sp
where
.I throughput
and
.I transdel
must each be given as a pair
{maximum}, {average};
.I maximum
and
.I average
must each be given as a pair
{called}, {calling};
.I called
and
.I calling
must each be given as a pari of numeric values:
target, minimumacceptable
(see examples).
.PP
.IR reserrorrate ", " trasnffailprob ", " estfailprob ", " relfailprob ", " estdelay " and  " connresil
each consisting of a pair of numeric values, the first being the target value
and the second being the minum acceptable value.
.PP
.IR protection ", " priority ", " optimisedtrans " and " extcntl
are integer constants.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP
.B AP_ACSE_AVAIL
The available ACSE versions.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_ACSEVER1\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_ACSE_SEL The selected ACSE version.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_ASCEVER1\fP and default \fIAP_ACSEVER1\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_AFU_AVAIL
The available ACSE optional functional units.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fINULL\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_AFU_SEL
The selected ACSE optional functional units.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fINULL\fP and default \fINULL\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOC_ind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_BIND_PADDR
The bind presentation address.
Type \fBap_paddr_t\fP with default \fINULL\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_AEID
The called application entity invocation-identifier (AE-invocation-identifier).
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_AEQ
The called application entity qualifier (AE-qualifier).
(Note that combined with the AP-Title, this parameter forms the ASO-Title.)
Type \fBap_aeq_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_APID
The called application process invocation-identifier (AP-invocation-identifier).
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_APT
The called application application presentation title (AP-title).
Type \fBap_apt_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_CONN_ID
The called session connection identifier.
Type \fBap_conn_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_AEID
The calling application entity invocation-identifier (AE-invocation-identifier).
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_AEQ
The calling application entity qualifier (AE-qualifier).
(Note that combined with the AP-Title, this parameter forms the ASO-Title.)
Type \fBap_aeq_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_APID
The calling application process invocation-identifier (AP-invocation-identifier).
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_APT
The calling application application presentation title (AP-title).
Type \fBap_apt_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_CONN_ID
The calling session connection identifier.
Type \fBap_conn_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_COPYENV
Type \fBlong\fP with choice of \fITRUE\fP or \fIFALSE\fP and default \fIFALSE\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable always.
.TP
.B AP_CNTX_NAME
The application context name.
Type \fBap_objid_t\fP with default none.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_DCS
The Defined Context Set.
.[
x216
.]
This environment attribute represents the Defined-Context-Set (DCS) for the presentation connection
as communicated to the PS-User.
Type \fBap_dcs_t\fP.
This attribute is readable in states other than \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_DIAGNOSTIC
The additional diagnostic information.
Type \fBap_diag_t\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_DPCN
The Default Presentation Context Name (Default-context-name).
.[
x216
.]
Type \fBap_dcn_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP. 
In the initiator role, Defining an \fBAP_DPCN\fP prior to \fBA_ASSOC_REQ\fP will cause the
Default-context-name parameter to be included in the \fIP-CONNECT request\fP.  In the responder
role, \fbAP_DPCN\fP in conjunction with the \fBAP_DPCR\fP attribute will reflect the initiator's
proposed Default-context-name.
.TP
.B AP_DPCR
The Default Presentation Context Result (Default-context-result).
.[
x216
.]
Type \fBlong\fP with choice of \fIAP_DPCR_NOVAL\fP, \fIAP_ACCEPT\fP, \fIAP_USER_REJ\fP or \fIAP_PROV_REJ\fP and default \fIAP_DPCR_NOVAL\fP.
This attribute is readable only in state \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP and writable only in state \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOC_ind\fP.
When an A_ASSOC_IND event is received, the value of this attribute represents the state of the
default presentation context.  If the peer did not propose a Default-context-name, the value of this
attribute will be \fIAP_DPCR_NOVAL\fP, and writing the value is not permitted.  If the peer proposed
a Default-context-name that will be rejected by the provider, the value will be \fIAP_PROV_REJ\fP
and writing the value is not permitted.  The \fBAP_DPCN\fP attribute will contain the rejected
proposed default.  If the peer proposed a Default-context-name that is acceptable to the provider,
the value will be \fIAP_ACCEPT\fP and the user may override this by writing \fIAP_USER_REJ\fP to the
attribute before issuing an \fBA_ASSOC_RSP\fP.  The \fBAP_DPCN\fP attribute will contain the
acceptable Default-context-name.
.TP
.B AP_FLAGS
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_NDELAY\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable always.
.TP
.B AP_INIT_SYNC_PT
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with a range of values from \fIAP_MIN_SYNCP\fP(0) through \fIAP_MAX_SYNCP\fP(999999) and default value \fIAP_MIN_SYNCP\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_INIT_TOKENS
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_DATA_TOK_REQ\fP, \fIAP_DATA_TOK_ACPT\fP, \fIAP_DATA_TOK_CHOICE\fP, \fIAP_SYNCMINOR_TOK_REQ\fP, \fIAP_SYNCMINOR_TOK_ACPT\fP, \fIAP_SYNCMINOR_TOK_CHOICE\fP, \fIAP_MAJACT_TOK_REQ\fP, \fIAP_MAJACT_TOK_ACPT\fP, \fIAP_MAJACT_TOK_CHOICE\fP, \fIAP_RELEASE_TOK_REQ\fP, \fIAP_RELEASE_TOK_ACPT\fP, \fIAP_RELEASE_TOK_CHOICE\fP, and default values \fIAP_DATA_TOK_REQ\fP, \fIAP_SYNCMINOR_TOK_REQ\fP, \fIAP_MAJACT_TOK_REQ\fP, \fIAP_RELEASE_TOK_REQ\fP.
This attribute is readable in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP, \fBAP_WASSOCcnf_ASSOCreq\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP, and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_LCL_PADDR
The local presentation address.
Type \fBap_paddr_t\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_LIB_AVAIL
The available library versions.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_LIBVER1\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_LIB_SEL
The selected library version.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_LIBVER1\fP and default none.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in state \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP.
.TP
.B AP_MODE_AVAIL
The available modes.  This attribute represents the Presentation Mode selections supported by the
local presentaiton-entity.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_NORMAL_MODE\fP and \fIAP_X410_MODE\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_MODE_SEL
The selected mode.  This attribute represents the value of the Presentation \fIMode\fP parameter.
.[
x216
.]
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_NORMAL_MODE\fP and \fIAP_X410_MODE\fP and default \fIAP_NORMAL_MODE\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
This attribute indicates the mode of operation of the Presentation Layer.  It takes the value either
\*(lqnormal\*(rq or \*(lqX.410-1984\*(rq.  If the value is \*(lqnormal\*(rq, the mode of operation
of the Presentation Layer is the normal mode.  If the value is \*(lqX.410-1984\*(rq, the mode of
operation of the Presentation Layer is the X.410-1984 mode.  In this mode of operation, the
following restrictions apply:
.RS
.IP a) 4n
the following parameter shall be absent in the P-CONNECT request service primitive:
Presentation-context-definition-list, Default-context-name, and Presentatoin-requirements;
.IP b)
restrictions apply to the User-data parameters of certain presentation-service primitives; these are
listed in X.216 Annex A.
.[
x216
.]
.RE
.TP
.B AP_MSTATE
The segmentation state.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_SNDMORE\fP and \fIAP_RCVMORE\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_OLD_CONN_ID
The old connection identifier.
Type \fBap_old_conn_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_OPT_AVAIL
The available options.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_NSAP_WILD\fP, \fIAP_TSEL_WILD\fP, \fIAP_SSEL_WILD\fP and \fIAP_PSEL_WILD\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_PCDL
The presentation context definition list.
Type \fBap_cdl_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_PFU_AVAIL
The available optional presentation functional units.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fINULL\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_PFU_SEL
The selected optional presentation functional units.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fINULL\fP and default \fINULL\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in stats \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_PRES_AVAIL
The available presentation versions.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_PRESVER1\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_PRES_SEL
The selected presentation version.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_PRESVER1\fP and default \fIAP_PRESVER1\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_QLEN
The association indication queue length.
Type \fBlong\fP with default zero (0).
This attribute is readable always and writable only in state \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP.
.TP
.B AP_QOS
The association quality of service.
Type \fBap_qos_t\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_REM_PADDR
The remote presentation address.
Type \fBap_paddr_t\fP with default none.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_ROLE_ALLOWED
The allowed roles.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_INITIATOR\fP and \fIAP_RESPONDER\fP with default values \fIAP_INITIATOR\fP and \fIAP_RESPONDER\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable always.
.TP
.B AP_ROLE_CURRENT
The current role.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_INITIATOR\fP and \fIAP_RESPONDER\fP.
This attribute is readable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP and is writable never.
.TP
.B AP_RSP_AEID
The responding application entity invocation-identifier (AE-invocation-identifier).
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_RSP_AEQ
The responding application qualifier (AE-qualifier).
(Note that combined with the AP-Title, this parameter forms the ASO-Title.)
Type \fBap_aeq_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_RSP_APID
The responding application process invocation-identifier (AP-invocation-identifier).
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_RSP_APT
The responding application application presentation title (AP-title).
Type \fBap_apt_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_SESS_AVAIL
The availale session versions.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_SESSVER1\fP and \fIAP_SESSVER2\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_SESS_SEL
The selected session version.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_SESSVER1\fP and \fIAP_SESSVER2\fP and default \fIAP_SESSVER2\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_SESS_OPT_AVAIL
The available session options.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_UCBC\fP and \fIAP_UCEC\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_SFU_AVAIL
The available session functional units.
Type \fBunsigned long \fP with bit values \fIAP_SESS_HALFDUPLEX\fP, \fIAP_SESS_DUPLEX\fP, \fIAP_SESS_XDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_MINORSYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_MAJORSYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_RESYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_ACTMGMT\fP, \fIAP_SESS_NEGREL\fP, \fIAP_SESS_CDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_EXCEPT\fP, \fIAP_SESS_TDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_DATASEP\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
An additional value should be added, \fIAP_SESS_NOORDREL\fP, for avialability and selection of the No-orderly-release functional unit of \*(lqITU-T Rec. X.215 (1995)/Amd.1 (1997)\*(rq.
An additional value should be added, \fIAP_SESS_NESTCON\fP, for availability and selection of the Nested-connections functional unit of \*(lqITU-T Rec. X.215 (1995)/Amd.2 (1997)\*(rq.
.TP
.B AP_SFU_SEL
The selected session functional units.
Type \fBunsigned long \fP with bit values \fIAP_SESS_HALFDUPLEX\fP, \fIAP_SESS_DUPLEX\fP, \fIAP_SESS_XDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_MINORSYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_MAJORSYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_RESYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_ACTMGMT\fP, \fIAP_SESS_NEGREL\fP, \fIAP_SESS_CDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_EXCEPT\fP, \fIAP_SESS_TDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_DATASEP\fP and default \fIAP_SESS_DUPLEX\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
An additional value should be added, \fIAP_SESS_NOORDREL\fP, for avialability and selection of the No-orderly-release functional unit of \*(lqITU-T Rec. X.215 (1995)/Amd.1 (1997)\*(rq.
An additional value should be added, \fIAP_SESS_NESTCON\fP, for availability and selection of the Nested-connections functional unit of \*(lqITU-T Rec. X.215 (1995)/Amd.2 (1997)\*(rq.
.TP
.B AP_STATE
The XAP state.
Type \fBlong\fP with values \fIAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fIAP_IDLE\fP, \fIAP_DATA_XFER\fP, \fIAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP, \fIAP_WASSOCcnf_ASSOCreq\fP, \fIAP_WRELrsp_RELind\fP, \fIAP_WRELcnf_RELreq\fP, \fIAP_WRESYNrsp_RESYNind\fP, \fIAP_WRESYNcnf_RESYNreq\fP, \fIAP_WRELrsp_RELind_init\fP, \fIAP_WRELcnf_RELreq_rsp\fP, \fIAP_WACTDrsp_ACTDind\fP, \fIAP_WACTDcnf_ACTDreq\fP, \fIAP_WACTErsp_ACTEind\fP, \fIAP_WACTEcnf_ACTEreq\fP, \fIAP_WACTIrsp_ACTIind\fP, \fIAP_WACTIcnf_ACTIreq\fP, \fIAP_WSYNCMArsp_SYNCMAind\fP, \fIAP_WSYNCMAcnf_SYNCMAreq\fP, \fIAP_WCDATArsp_CDATAind\fP, \fIAP_WCDATAcnf_CDATAreq\fP, \fIAP_WRECOVERYind\fP, \fIAP_WRECOVERYreq\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_TOKENS_AVAIL
The available presentation tokens.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_DATA_TOK\fP, \fIAP_SYNCMINOR_TOK\fP, \fIAP_MAJACT_TOK\fP, \fIAP_RELEASE_TOK\fP.
This attribute is readable in any states except \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP, \fBAP_WASSOCcnf_ASSOCreq\fP, \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_TOKENS_OWNED
The owned presentation tokens.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_DATA_TOK\fP, \fIAP_SYNCMINOR_TOK\fP, \fIAP_MAJACT_TOK\fP, \fIAP_RELEASE_TOK\fP.
This attribute is readable in any states except \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP, \fBAP_WASSOCcnf_ASSOCreq\fP, \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP and writable never.
.\"
.\"
.SH "PACKAGE CONTENTS"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH PREREQUISITES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH STATUS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
