'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: striso.5.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-29 00:01:57 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:01:57 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: striso.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-29 00:01:57  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/01/05 06:26:19  brian
.\" - doc updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/12 13:06:23  brian
.\" - added package manual page
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRISO 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B @PACKAGE@
\- @PACKAGE_TITLE@ package
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This is the
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@ - @VERSION@ )
package for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
lfs
.]
.PP
OpenSS7
.I STREAMS
add-on packages are separate add-on packages to the
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
release that provide additional functionality and protocol support not traditionally found on UNIX
systems, or which have traditionally fallen into the domain of value-add system software, or, in
this case, where the functionality was optional or differently handled in a number of implementations.  The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package is one of several optional add-on packages that provide enhanced
.I STREAMS
support beyond that provided by the base
.I STREAMS
packages.  This package provides support for
network protocols,
not provided by the base
.I STREAMS
package.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package provides
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers, libraries, programs, initialization scripts, and daemons that
implement
.IR "Open Systems Interconnect"
.[
x200
.]
data links, networks, transport and applications.
.PP
The package currently provides the following
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers:
.ad l
.IP \(en \w'\(en\(em'u
.BR streams_clns.ko " multiplexing driver
.IR /dev/clns ", " /dev/clnp ", " /dev/clns_cm
.PD 0
.IP \(en
.BR streams_cons.ko " multiplexing driver
.IR /dev/cons ", " /dev/cons_cm
.IP \(en
.BR streams_tp.ko " multiplexing driver
.IR /dev/otpi ", " /dev/otk6 ", " /dev/tp0 ", " /dev/tp1 ", " /dev/tp2 ", " /dev/tp3 ", " /dev/tp4
.IP \(en
.BR streams_lapb.ko " driver
.IR /dev/lapb
.IP \(en
.BR streams_xol.ko " driver
.IR /dev/xol
.IP \(en
.BR streams_plp.ko " multiplexing driver
.IR /dev/plp ", " /dev/plp_cm
.IP \(en
.BR streams_iso_ip.ko " module
.IP \(en
.BR streams_iso_udp.ko " module
.IP \(en
.BR streams_cmot.ko " module
.IP \(en
.BR streams_isos.ko " module
.IP \(en
.BR streams_itos.ko " module
.IP \(en
.BR streams_itot.ko " module
.IP \(en
.BR streams_isot.ko " module
.IP \(en
.BR streams_lpp.ko " module
.IP \(en
.BR streams_xos.ko " module
.IP \(en
.BR streams_xot.ko " module
.ad b
.PD
.TP
.BR clns (4)
This is a multiplexing pseudo-device driver that provides X.213
.[
x213
.]
Connectionless Network service (CLNS).
It is able to link Streams that provider the Network Provider Interface (NPI)
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
for connectionless network service.
It also provides the NPI for CLNS.
.TP
.BR cons (4)
This is a multiplexing pseudo-device driver that provides X.213
.[
x213
.]
Connection-oriented Network Service (CONS).
It is able to link Streams that provider the Network Provider Interface (NPI)
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
for connection-oriented network service.
It also provides the NPI for CONS.
.TP
.BR tp (4)
This is a multiplexing pseudo-device driver that provides X.214
.[
x214
.]
Connection-oriented Transport Serivce (COTS).
It is able to link Streams that provider the Network Provider Interface (NPI)
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
for connection-oriented network service.
It provides the Transport Provider Interface (TPI)
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
interface for connection-oriented transport service.
.TP
.BR lapb (4)
This is a device driver that provides X.25
.[
x25
.]
Link Access Protocol (Balanced) data links.
It provides the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI).
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.TP
.BR xol (4)
This is a device driver that provides ISO 8802
.[
iso/iec 8802
.]
Logical Link Control type 2 (LLC2) data links.
It provides the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI).
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.TP
.BR plp (4)
This is a multiplexing pseudo-device driver that provides X.25
.[
x25
.]
Packet Layer Protocol (PLP).
It is able to link Stream that provide the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
for LAPB and LLC2.
It provides the Network Provider Interface (NPI)
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
for connection-oriented network service.
.TP
.BR iso-ip (4)
This is a pushable module that can be pushed over a
.BR rawip (4)
Stream to implement RFC 1070
.[
rfc1070
.]
and provides a Network Provider Interface (NPI) suitable for linking beneath
the
.BR clns (4)
driver.
.TP
.BR iso-udp (4)
This is a pushable module that can be pushed over a
.BR udp (4)
STream to implement RFC 1070
.[
rfc1070
.]
and provides a Network Provider Interface (NPI) suitable for linking beneath
the
.BR clns (4)
driver.
.TP
.BR cmot (4)
This is a pushable module that can be pushed over a
.BR tp (4)
transport Stream to provide an RFC 1189
.[
rfc1189
.]
CMISE/CMIP over TCP implementation.  It provides a Transport Provider
Interface (TPI)
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
providing the mOSI interface.
.TP
.BR isos (4)
This is pushable module that can be pushed over a
.BR sctp (4)
Stream to provide an RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
implementation providing a Network Provider Interface (NPI) that can be linked
or pushed beneath the
.BR tp (4)
driver to provide OSI Transport Class 0 (TP0).
.TP
.BR isot (4)
This is a pushable module that can be pushed over a
.BR tcp (4)
Stream to provide an RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
implementation providing a Network Provider Interface (NPI) that can be linked
or pushed beneath the
.BR tp (4)
driver to provide OSI Transport Class 0 (TP0).
.TP
.BR itos (4)
This is pushable module that can be pushed over a
.BR sctp (4)
Stream to provide an RFC 2126
.[
rfc2126
.]
implementation providing a Network Provider Interface (NPI) that can be linked
or pushed beneath the
.BR tp (4)
driver to provide OSI Transport Class 2 (TP2).
.TP
.BR itot (4)
This is a pushable module that can be pushed over a
.BR tcp (4)
Stream to provide an RFC 2126
.[
rfc2126
.]
implementation providing a Network Provider Interface (NPI) that can be linked
or pushed beneath the
.BR tp (4)
driver to provide OSI Transport Class 2 (TP2).
.TP
.BR lpp (4)
This is a pushable module that can be pushed over an OSI Transport Stream
.BR tp (4)
to provide an implementation of the Lightweigth Presentation Protocol, RFC
1189,
.[
rfc1189
.]
that provide a TPI-mOSI interface.
.TP
.BR xos (4)
This is a pushable module that can be pushed over an
.BR sctp (4)
stream to provide and RFC 1613
.[
rfc1613
.]
X.25 connection over SCTP (XOS).  It provides a Network Provider Interface (NPI)
suitable for use with
.BR cons (4)
or
.BR tp (4).
.TP
.BR xot (4)
This is a pushable module that can be pushed over an
.BR tcp (4)
stream to provide and RFC 1613
.[
rfc1613
.]
X.25 connection over TCP (XOT).  It provides a Network Provider Interface (NPI)
suitable for use with
.BR cons (4)
or
.BR tp (4).
.PP
The package builds and installs the following shared object libraries:
.TP
.BR libosi (3)
The
.BR libosi (3)
library provides implementations of
.I SunLink OSI
address handling functions for OSI transport protocols.  These functions are:
.RS
.HP
.BR getmyclnsnsap (3)\ \-\ \c
get the CLNS NSAP for the local host.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR getmyconsnsap (3)\ \-\ \c
get the CONS NSAP for the local host.
.HP
.BR getnamebynsap (3)\ \-\ \c
get the host name associated with an NSAP.
.HP
.BR getnsapbyname (3)\ \-\ \c
get the NSAP associated with a host name.
.HP
.BR gettselbyname (3)\ \-\ \c
get the TSEL associated with a service name.
.HP
.BR nsap2net (3)\ \-\ \c
convert an NSAP for use with TLI.
.HP
.BR tsap2net (3)\ \-\ \c
convert an NSAP and TSEL use with TLI.
.PD
.RE
.PP
This library is incomplete.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package includes kernel modules,
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
.I STREAMS
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and
development environment for the development and execution of
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
protocol stack components and applications for the
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
environment.
.PP
This distribution is only currently applicable to
.B Linux
2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted at
.IR ix86 ", " x86_64 ", " ppc " and " ppc64
architectures, but should build and install for other architectures as well.
.PP
This package is currently incomplete.
It is being released as a reference oint for the community.  If you are interested in completion of
this package, contact
.RB < info@openss7.com >.
.\"
.\"
.SH "PACKAGE CONTENTS"
.PP
The
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@ - @VERSION@ )
package contains the following manual pages:
.\"
.HP
.BR getmyclnsnsap (3)\ \-\ \c
get the CLNS NSAP for the local host.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR getmyconsnsap (3)\ \-\ \c
get the CONS NSAP for the local host.
.HP
.BR getnamebynsap (3)\ \-\ \c
get the host name associated with an NSAP.
.HP
.BR getnsapbyname (3)\ \-\ \c
get the NSAP associated with a host name.
.HP
.BR gettselbyname (3)\ \-\ \c
get the TSEL associated with a service name.
.HP
.BR libosi (3)\ \-\ \c
the
.I SunLink OSI
compatible library.
.HP
.BR nsap2net (3)\ \-\ \c
convert an NSAP into a \fBnetbuf\fR(3) buffer for use with TLI.
.HP
.BR tsap2net (3)\ \-\ \c
convert an NSAP and TSEL into a \fBnetbuf\fR(3) buffer for use with TLI.
.PD
.HP
.BR clnp (4)\ \-\ \c
the CLNS TLI device.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR clns (4)\ \-\ \c
the CLNS network driver.
.HP
.BR cmot (4)\ \-\ \c
the CMOT (CMISE over TCP) module.
.HP
.BR cons (4)\ \-\ \c
the CONS network driver.
.HP
.BR ISO (4)\ \-\ \c
the ISO/OSI driver subsystem.
.HP
.BR iso-ip (4)\ \-\ \c
the OSI CLNS over IP driver.
.HP
.BR iso-lan (4)\ \-\ \c
the OSI CONS over LLC2 driver.
.HP
.BR isos (4)\ \-\ \c
the ISO TP0 over SCTP module.
.HP
.BR isot (4)\ \-\ \c
the ISO TP2 over SCTP module.
.HP
.BR iso-udp (4)\ \-\ \c
the OSI CLNS over UDP driver.
.HP
.BR itos (4)\ \-\ \c
the ISO TP0 over TCP module.
.HP
.BR itot (4)\ \-\ \c
the ISO TP2 over TCP module.
.HP
.BR lapb (4)\ \-\ \c
the X.25 LAPB DL driver.
.HP
.BR lpp (4)\ \-\ \c
the Lightweight Presentation Protocol (LPP) module.
.HP
.BR oclt (4)\ \-\ \c
the OSI CLTS device.
.HP
.BR otk6 (4)\ \-\ \c
the RFC 1006 device.
.HP
.BR otpi (4)\ \-\ \c
the OSI COTS device.
.HP
.BR plp (4)\ \-\ \c
the X.25 PLP CONS driver.
.HP
.BR tp0 (4)\ \-\ \c
the OSI Transport Class 0 (TP0) device.
.HP
.BR tp1 (4)\ \-\ \c
the OSI Transport Class 1 (TP1) device.
.HP
.BR tp2 (4)\ \-\ \c
the OSI Transport Class 2 (TP2) device.
.HP
.BR tp3 (4)\ \-\ \c
the OSI Transport Class 3 (TP3) device.
.HP
.BR tp4 (4)\ \-\ \c
the OSI Transport Class 4 (TP4) device.
.HP
.BR tp (4)\ \-\ \c
the OSI Transport driver.
.HP
.BR x25_lapb (4)\ \-\ \c
the X.25 LAPB DL device.
.HP
.BR x25-lapb (4)\ \-\ \c
the X.25 LAPB DL device.
.HP
.BR x25_plp (4)\ \-\ \c
the X.25 PLP CONS device.
.HP
.BR x25-plp (4)\ \-\ \c
the X.25 PLP CONS device.
.HP
.BR xol (4)\ \-\ \c
the X.25 LLC2 DL device.
.HP
.BR xos (4)\ \-\ \c
the X.25 CONS over SCTP module.
.HP
.BR xot (4)\ \-\ \c
the X.25 CONS over TCP module.
.PD
.HP
.BR striso (5)\ \-\ \c
this manual page.
.PD
.HP
.BR npi_osi (7)\ \-\ \c
the NPI for OSI.
.PD
.HP
.BR striso_mknod (8)\ \-\ \c
OSI device node creation and removal.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package provides the following
.I STREAMS
modules:
.HP
.BR cmot (4)\ \-\ \c
CMISE/CMIP over TCP module.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR isos (4)\ \-\ \c
ISO Transport (TP0) over SCTP module.
.HP
.BR isot (4)\ \-\ \c
ISO Transport (TP0) over TCP module.
.HP
.BR itos (4)\ \-\ \c
ISO Transport (TP2) over SCTP module.
.HP
.BR itot (4)\ \-\ \c
ISO Transport (TP2) over TCP module.
.HP
.BR lpp (4)\ \-\ \c
Lightweigth Presentation Protocol (LPP) module.
.HP
.BR xot (4)\ \-\ \c
X.25 over TCP (XOT) module.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package provides the following
.I STREAMS
drivers:
.HP
.BR clns (4)\ \-\ \c
OSI CLNS
.[
x233
.]
multiplexing driver.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR cons (4)\ \-\ \c
OSI CONS
.[
x223
.]
multiplexing driver.
.HP
.BR tp (4)\ \-\ \c
OSI COTS
.[
x224
.]
multiplexing driver.
.HP
.BR x25-lapb (4)\ \-\ \c
X.25
.[
x25
.]
LAPB Data Link driver.
.HP
.BR x25-plp (4)\ \-\ \c
X.25
.[
x25
.]
Packet Layer Protocol (PLP)
CONS driver.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package provides the following
.I STREAMS
devices:
.TP
.B /dev/clnp
.I SunLink OSI
compatible CONS
.[
x223
.]
device.
.TP
.B /dev/oclt
.I SunLink OSI
compatible CLTS
.[
x234
.]
device.
.TP
.B /dev/otpi
.I SunLink OSI
compatible COTS
.[
x224
.]
device.
.TP
.B /dev/otk6
.I SunLink OSI
compatible RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
device.
.TP
.BR /dev/clns ", " /dev/clns_cm
OSI CLNS multiplexing driver
.BR clone (4)
user and connection management device.
.TP
.BR /dev/cons ", " /dev/cons_cm
OSI CONS multiplexing driver
.BR clone (4)
user and connection management device.
.TP
.BR /dev/tp0 ", " /dev/tp1 ", " /dev/tp2 ", " /dev/tp3 ", " /dev/tp4
Classed devices for the OSI COTS
.[
x233
.]
driver
.BR tp (4).
.TP
.BR /dev/plp
X.25
.[
x25
.]
CONS
.[
x223
.]
device.
.TP
.BR /dev/lapb
X.25
.[
x25
.]
data link device.
.\"
.\"
.SH PREREQUISITES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package requires the following packages to be installed:
.TP
.BR streams (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
base package.
.TP
.BR strcompat (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
compatibility modules package.
.TP
.BR strxns (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
X/Open Networking Services package.
.TP
.BR strxnet (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
XTI/TLI Library package.
.TP
.BR strnsl (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
Network Selection Library package.
.TP
.BR strsock (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
Sockets Library package.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although previous release of the
.B @PACKAGE@
package were tested with
.IR LiS ,
.I LiS
is now deprecated and this release
.RB ( @VERSION@ )
of
.B @PACKAGE@
has not been tested with
.IR LiS .
.I The OpenSS7 Project
will no longer support this package for
.IR LiS :
please upgrade to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package has known and unknown defects.  This is a
.I pre-alpha
release.  Some defects might be harmful.  No validation testing whatsoever has been performed by the
.I OpenSS7 Project
on this software.  The software might not even configure or compile.  The
.I OpenSS7 Project
recommends that you do not use this software. Use at your own risk.  Remember that there is
.BR "NO WARRANTY" .
(See the section
.RI \(lq "NO WARRANTY" \(rq
under the
.RI \(lq "GNU General Public License" \(rq,
in the manual.)
.PP
This software is
.I pre-alpha
software.  As such, it will crash your kernel.  Installation of the software will irreparably mangle
your header files or Linux distribution in such a way as to make it unusable.  Crashes will lock
your system and rebooting the system will not repair the problem.  You will lose all the data on
your system.  Because this software will crash your kernel, the resulting unstable system can
destroy computer hardware or peripherals making them unusable.  You will void the warranty on any
system on which you run this software.
.BR "YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED" .
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package is compatible with a wide array of production
.B Linux
distributions, kernels, and target architectures, but is considered
.I pre-alpha
grade by
.IR "The OpenSS7 Project" .
At the time of release, the
.B @PACKAGE@
package had no known bugs.  Problems or development requests can be reported to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
Please, however, use the included
.B send-pr
script for generating actionable problem reports or development requests.
Please see the file
.RI \(lq PROBLEMS \(rq
in the release for problem reporting guidelines.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR getmyclnsnsap (3),
.BR getmyconsnsap (3),
.BR getnamebynsap (3),
.BR getnsapbyname (3),
.BR gettselbyname (3),
.BR libosi (3),
.BR nsap2net (3),
.BR tsap2net (3),
.BR clnp (4),
.BR clns (4),
.BR cmot (4),
.BR cons (4),
.BR iso-ip (4),
.BR iso-lan (4),
.BR isos (4),
.BR isot (4),
.BR iso-udp (4),
.BR itos (4),
.BR itot (4),
.BR lapb (4),
.BR lpp (4),
.BR ns-tcp (4),
.BR oclt (4),
.BR otk6 (4),
.BR otpi (4),
.BR plp (4),
.BR tcpns (4),
.BR tp0 (4),
.BR tp1 (4),
.BR tp2 (4),
.BR tp3 (4),
.BR tp4 (4),
.BR tp (4),
.BR x25_lapb (4),
.BR x25-lapb (4),
.BR x25_plp (4),
.BR x25-plp (4),
.BR xol (4),
.BR xos (4),
.BR xot (4),
.BR striso (5),
.BR npi_osi (7),
.BR striso_mknod (8),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package is compatible with
.I SVR 4.2
and systems based on
.I SVR 4.2
such as
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides compatibility with all implementations of the ISO/OSI Protocol suite
using the
Data Link Provider Interface Revision 2.0.0,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
Network Provider Interface Revision 2.0.0,
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
and
Transport Provider Interface Revision 1.5 or 2.0.0
specifications.
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IP \(em
These drivers are designed to operate with the XTI/TLI library implementation
provided by the
.BR strxnet (5)
package and is thus compatible with most XTI library implementations as well.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR DLPI ,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR NPI ,
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR TPI ,
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR "XNS 5.2" ,
.[
xns 5.2
.]
.IR UNIX95 .
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-iso (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The contents of the
.B @PACKAGE@
package were formerly part of the
.BR strss7 (5)
package.  As of
.BR "@PACAKGE@-@VERSION@" ,
the ISO/OSI components were moved out of the
.BR strss7 (5)
package into this
.BR striso (5)
package.  This package now contains all of the ISO/OSI protocol components released by
.IR "The OpenSS7 Project" ,
along with associated documentation.
.PP
In the initial releases of the
.BR striso (5)
package, only ISO/OSI modules and drivers that have been fully revalidated on
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
were initially released.  The remaining components present on the CVS archive and formerly part of the commercial
.BR sstrss7 (5)
releases, will be publicly released in releases subsequent to
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
as they are revalidated.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATUS
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package is
.I production
grade on
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
for the modules and drivers included in the public release.  Not all OpenSS7
Project ISO/OSI modules and drivers have been included in the release
distribution.  The OpenSS7 project is in the process of revalidating all
project modules and drivers for use on
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
As a result, additional release components will be strapped into the package
and once full validation test suites are developed and run against each
component.
.PP
In particular, the following modules and drivers are currently missing from
the public release:
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
