'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH XMP.H 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.SH NAME
.B xmp.h
\- XMP Header File
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xmp.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.RB < xmp.h >
header file contains common definitions for the access to the Management Communication Service.
.PP
The interface uses part of the C public namespace for its facilities.  All identifiers start with
the letters '\fImp\fP', '\fIMP\fP' or '\fIOMP\fP', and more detail of the conventions used are given
in the following table.  Note that the interface reserves \fIall\fP identifiers starting with the
letters '\fImpP\fP' for Private (i.e\&. internal) use by implementations of the interface.  It also
reserves \fIall\fP identifiers starting with the letters '\fImpX\fP' or '\fIMPX\fP' for
vendor-specific extensions of the interface.  Application programmers should not use any identifier
staring with these letters.
.PP
The OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation API uses similar, though not identical, naming conventions which
are described in XOM.
.[
XOM
.]
All its identifiers are prefixed by the letters '\fIOM\fP' or '\fIom\fP'.
.PP
.TS
box center tab(:);
cb|cb
l|li.
Item:Prefix
_
reserved for implementors:mpP
reserved for interface extensions:mpX
reserved for interface extensions:MPX
reserved for impleemntors:OMP
_
functions:mp_
error \*(lqproblem\*(rq values:MP_E_
enumeration tags (except errors):MP_T_
OM class names:MP_C_
OM value length limits:MP_VL_
OM value number limits:MP_VN_
other constants:MP_
.TE
.PP
All application programs that use this interface must include the
.RB < xom.h >
and
.RB < xmp.h >
headers in that order, and at least one of the
.RB < xmp_cmis.h >
and
.RB < xmp_snmp.h >
headers.
.\"
.\"
.SH FUNCTIONS
.PP
.TP
.BR mp_abandon (3)
Abandon locally the result of a pending asyncrhonous operation.
.br
This is a local function.
.TP
.BR mp_abort_req (3)
Abort a management association.
.br
This is an ACSE service function.
.TP
.BR mp_action_req (3)
Request an action on managed objects to be performed.
.br
This is an asyncrhonous CMIS service function.
.TP
.BR mp_action_rsp (3)
Response to an action request on managed objects.
.br
This is a CMIS service function.
.TP
.BR mp_assoc_rsp (3)
Response to an association request.
.br
This is an ACSE service function.
.TP
.BR mp_assoc_req (3)
Build a management association.
.br
This is an asynchronous ACSE service function.
.TP
.BR mp_bind (3)
Open a management session with the agent(s) or the manager(s).
.br
This is a local function.
.TP
.BR mp_cancel_get_req (3)
Cancel an outstanding asyncrhonous get operation.
.br
This is an asynchronous CMIS service function.
.TP
.BR mp_cancel_get_rsp (3)
Response to a cancel get request.
.br
This is a CMIS service function.
.TP
.BR mp_create_req (3)
Request to create an object in the MIB.
.br
This is an asynchronous CMIS service function.
.TP
.BR mp_create_rsp (3)
Response to a create request.
.br
This is a CMIS service function.
.TP
.BR mp_delete_req (3)
Request to delete an object in the MIB.
.br
This is an asynchronous CMIS service function.
.TP
.BR mp_delete_rsp (3)
Response to a delete request.
.br
This is a CMIS service function.
.TP
.BR mp_error_message (3)
Return an error message describing a particular error.
.br
This is a local function.
.TP
.BR mp_event_report_req (3)
Request to forware a management notification.
.br
This is an asynchronous CMIS service function.
.TP
.BR mp_event_report_rsp (3)
Response to an event report request.
.br
This is a CMIS service function.
.TP
.BR mp_get_assoc_info (3)
Return negotiated connection values.
.br
This is a local function.
.TP
.BR mp_get_last_error (3)
Retrieve secondary error code.
.br
This is a local function.
.TP
.BR mp_get_next_req (3)
Request to get the next SNMP management information.
.br
This is an asynchronous SNMP service function.
.TP
.BR mp_get_req (3)
Request to get management information.
.br
This is an asynchronous CMIS or SNMP service function.
.TP
.BR mp_get_rsp (3)
Response to get request.
.br
This is a CMIS or SNMP service function.
.TP
.BR mp_initialize (3)
Initialize the interface and create a workspace.
.br
This is a local function.
.TP
.BR mp_negotiate (3)
Negotiate features fo the interface and service.
.br
This is a local function.
.TP
.BR mp_receive (3)
Retrieve the result of an asyncrhonously executed management operation or the content of a received
management notification or indication.
.br
This is a local function.
.TP
.BR mp_release_rsp (3)
Response to a release request.
.br
This is an ACSE service function.
.TP
.BR mp_release_req (3)
Response to a release request.
.br
This is an ACSE service function.
.TP
.BR mp_set_req (3)
Request to modify (replace, add, remove) attribute value(s) of a managed object with the specified
attribute value(s).
.br
This is an asynchronous CMIS or SNMP service function.
.TP
.BR mp_set_rsp (3)
Reponse to a set request.
.br
This is a CMIS or SNMP service function.
.TP
.BR mp_shutdown (3)
Discard a workspace.
.br
This is a local function.
.TP
.BR mp_unbind (3)
Close a management session.
.br
This is a local function.
.TP
.BR mp_validate_object (3)
Analyze an OM object.
.br
This is a local function.
.TP
.BR mp_wait (3)
Wait for the availability of management message(s) from one or more bound sessions.
.br
This is a local function.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.RB < xmp.h >
.TP
.RB < xom.h >
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR xmp (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XMP,
.[
XMP
.]
XOM.
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XMP Library implementation.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
