@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: configure.texi,v 0.9.2.5 2005/05/14 08:34:34 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/14 08:34:34 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@c This file is include from install.texi and contains the descriptions for
@c package-specific enable/disable and with/without options

In addition, the following @command{configure} options, specific to the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package are available:

@table @command

@item --enable-module-sth
Enable @file{sth} (stream head) module linked into @file{streams} object.
The default is to create the module as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --enable-module-pipemod
Enable @file{pipemod} module linked into @file{streams} object.
The default is to create the module as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --enable-module-connld
Enable @file{connld} module linked into @file{streams} object.
The default is to create the module as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --enable-module-sc
Enable @file{sc} module linked into @file{streams} object.
The default is to create the module as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --enable-driver-clone
Enable @file{clone} driver linked into @file{streams} object.
The default is to create the driver as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --enable-driver-fifo
Enable @file{fifo} driver linked into @file{streams} object.
The default is to create the driver as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --enable-driver-loop
Enable @file{loop} driver linked into @file{streams} object.
The default is to create the driver as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --enable-driver-sad
Enable @file{sad} driver linked into @file{streams} object.
The default is to create the driver as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --enable-driver-nsdev
Enable @file{nsdev} driver linked into @file{streams} object.
The default is to create the driver as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --enable-driver-echo
Enable @file{echo} driver linked into @file{streams} object.
The default is to create the driver as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --enable-driver-nuls
Enable @file{nuls} driver linked into @file{streams} object.
The default is to create the driver as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --enable-driver-pipe
Enable @file{pipe} driver linked into @file{streams} object.
The default is to create the driver as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --enable-driver-log
Enable @file{log} driver linked into @file{streams} object.
The default is to create the driver as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --disable-compat-svr4
@opindex compat-svr4
Disable source compatibility with SVR 4.2 MP variants.
This option disables the SVR 4.2 MP compatibility functions that are included in the separate
kernel module @file{streams-svr4compat.o}.
The default for this feature is enabled.

@item --disable-compat-sol8
@opindex compat-sol8
Disable source compatibility with Solaris 8 variants.
This option disables the Solaris 8 compatibility functions that are included in the separate
kernel module @file{streams-suncompat.o}.
The default for this feature is enabled.

@item --disable-compat-uw7
@opindex compat-uw7
Disable source compatibility with UnixWare 7 variants.
This option disables the UnixWare 7 compatibility functions that are included in the separate
kernel module @file{streams-uw7compat.o}.
The default for this feature is enabled.

@item --disable-compat-osf
@opindex compat-osf
Disable source compatibility with OSF/1.2 variants.
This option disables the OSF/1.2 compatibility functions that are included in the separate
kernel module @file{streams-osfcompat.o}.
The default for this feature is enabled.

@item --disable-compat-aix
@opindex compat-aix
Disable source compatibility with AIX 4 variants.
This option disables the AIX 4 compatibility functions that are included in the separate
kernel module @file{streams-aixcompat.o}.
The default for this feature is enabled.

@item --disable-compat-hpux
@opindex compat-hpux
Disable source compatibility with HPUX variants.
This option disables the HPUX compatibility functions that are included in the separate
kernel module @file{streams-hpuxcompat.o}.
The default for this feature is enabled.

@item --disable-compat-lis
@opindex compat-lis
Disable source compatibility with LiS variants.
This option disables the LiS compatibility functions that are included in the separate
kernel module @file{streams-liscompat.o}.
The default for this feature is enabled.

@item --enable-streams-fifos
@opindex streams-fifos
Enable override of system fifos with STREAMS-based fifos.
The default for this feature is disabled.

@end table
