@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: descrip.texi,v 0.9.2.8 2007/06/22 00:18:46 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/06/22 00:18:46 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is a High-Performance @dfn{STREAMS} framework for
@cite{Linux} that is compatible with @cite{SVR 4.2 MP} @dfn{STREAMS} and a host of other commercial
@cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} @dfn{STREAMS} implementations, with complete debugging and production release
capabilities.  It is as a high-performance, production replacement for the buggy and now deprecated
@cite{Linux STREAMS (LiS)}.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package includes kernel modules, @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS}
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and development environment for the
development and execution of @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers under @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.
It is completely documented with over four hundred (435) manual pages, and three (3) major print
set manuals.

The package configures, compiles, installs and builds @file{rpm}s or @file{deb}s for a wide range of
Linux @manpage{rpm(1)}- or @manpage{dpkg(1)}-based distributions, and can be used on production
kernels without patching, recompiling or tainting the kernel.  Its small run-time footprint makes
the release suitable for embedded targets.

@ignore
This package is released under the @cite{GNU Public License Version 2}; however, commercial
licensing and support is available from @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation}.

The release is available as an @manpage{autoconf(1)} tarball, SRPM or DSC, or as a set of binary
@file{rpm}s or @file{deb}s.  See the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html, download page} for
the @manpage{autoconf(1)} tarballs, SRPMs or DSCs.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/streams_pkg.html, @command{streams} package page} for tarballs, source
and binary packages.

See the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog,,
@file{ChangeLog}} and @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS,,
@file{NEWS}} file in the release for more information.  Also see the @value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}
@file{pdf} manual in the release (also in @file{html} at
<@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}_manual.html}>.
@end ignore

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides primarily a set of two kernel modules that provide the
@dfn{STREAMS} executive framework:

@multitable @columnfractions .33 .33 .34
@item @manpage{specfs(5)} @tab @manpage{STREAMS(9)}
@end multitable

It also provides a set of standard @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers:

@multitable @columnfractions .33 .33 .34
@item @manpage{bufmod(4)} @tab @manpage{clone(4)} @tab @manpage{nsdev(4)}
@item @manpage{connld(4)} @tab @manpage{echo(4)} @tab @manpage{nuls(4)}
@item @manpage{nullmod(4)} @tab @manpage{fifo(4)} @tab @manpage{pipe(4)}
@item @manpage{pipemod(4)} @tab @manpage{log(4)} @tab @manpage{sad(4)}
@item @manpage{sc(4)} @tab @manpage{loop(4)} @tab @manpage{sfx(4)}
@item @manpage{sth(4)} @tab @manpage{mux(4)} @tab @manpage{spx(4)}
@item @manpage{testmod(4)}
@end multitable

It also provides standard @dfn{STREAMS} header files and both shared and static libraries for
development of @dfn{STREAMS} applications, or kernel level @dfn{STREAMS} drivers and modules:

@multitable @columnfractions .25 .25 .25 .25
@item @file{<log.h>} @tab @file{<sys/cmn_err.h>} @tab @file{<sys/loop.h>} @tab @file{<sys/stream.h>}
@item @file{<loop.h>} @tab @file{<sys/ddi.h>} @tab @file{<sys/map.h>} @tab @file{<sys/strlog.h>}
@item @file{<sad.h>} @tab @file{<sys/dki.h>} @tab @file{<sys/sad.h>} @tab @file{<sys/stropts.h>}
@item @file{<strlog.h>} @tab @file{<sys/kmem.h>} @tab @file{<sys/sc.h>} @tab @file{<sys/strsubr.h>}
@item @file{<stropts.h>} @tab @file{<sys/log.h>} @tab @file{<sys/strconf.h>} @tab @file{<sys/testmod.h>}
@end multitable
@end ignore

@ignore
@multitable @columnfractions .05 .01 .88 .06
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab follows kernel coding practises; @tab
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab automatically adapts to production kernels with @manpage{autoconf(1)}; @tab
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab packages itself into @cite{Linux Standards Base (LSB)} compliant RPMs and DEBs; @tab
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab designed and implemented specifically for @cite{GNU/Linux}; @tab
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab code not obfuscated with porting paraphernalia; @tab
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab up to 6 times the performance of alternative @dfn{STREAM} packages for @cite{Linux}; @tab
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab an eight of the memory footprint of alternatives making it suitable for embedded targets; @tab
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab proper programming by assertion; @tab
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab proper use of lightweight spin locks; @tab
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab race free locking strategies and synchronization; @tab
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab compatible with all mainstream @cite{UNIX@registeredsymbol{}} implementations; @tab
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab conforms to @cite{POSIX/SUSv3 XSR}; @tab
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab complete set of standard drivers and modules; @tab
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab complete set of diagnostic and administrative utilities; @tab
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab integrated set of test suites for conformance and validation testing; @tab
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab fully documented with a complete set of manual pages, user and programmer manuals. @tab
@end multitable
@end ignore

@ignore
In contrast, @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} has the following features in contrast to @cite{Linux
STREAMS}:

@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @b{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
@tab @b{Linux STREAMS (LiS)}
@item
Provided and optimized for Linux.  Ports to other OSs (BSD?) possible.
@tab
Maintain portability across Linux, User Space, QNX, DOS and other ports.
@item
Promotes mainstream kernel adoption.
@tab
Places portability concerns before mainstream kernel adoption.
@item
Linux indented and follows normal kernel formatting and coding practises.
@tab
Non-lindented, does not follow normal kernel formatting and coding practise.
@item
Provides compatibility modes for AIX, HPUX, OSF, Solaris, UnixWare, SVR 4.2 and LiS.  Supports all
major SVR 4.2 variants.
@tab
Provides some compatibility interfaces but also many Linux-derived interfaces specific to LiS.
@item
Licensed under GPL with commercial licensing available.
@tab
Dubiously licensed under LGPL.
@item
Supports full SVR4.2 MP synchronization models.
@tab
Supports only a single, Linux derived synchronization model.
@item
Runs at SoftIRQ.
@tab
Separate kernel threads.
@item
Provides common SVR4.2 system tunable parameters as system controls as well as @file{/proc} file
system support for debugging.
@tab
Provides only log based debugging.
@item
Provides support for @cite{SVR4.2 STREAMS} and other utilities.
@tab
Provides a limited set of @cite{LiS} only Linux-derived utilities.
@item
Provides full named-streams device and device file system support.
@tab
Provides only character-based node support.
@end multitable
@end ignore

This distribution is only currently applicable to @cite{Linux} 2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted
at @code{ix86}, @code{x86_64}, @code{ppc} and @code{ppc64} architectures, but should build and
install for other architectures as well.

