@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: modules.texi,v 0.9.2.6 2007/08/15 05:33:18 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/08/15 05:33:18 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@menu
* pipemod Module::
* connld Module::
* sc Module::
* bufmod Module::
* nullmod Module::
* testmod Module::
@end menu

@c ============================================================================

@node pipemod Module
@subsection pipemod

@subheading Name
@command{pipemod} -- @dfn{STREAMS}-based pipe module

@subheading Synopsis
@example
int pfds[2];

int pipe(pfds);

int ioctl(pfds[0], I_PUSH, "pipemod");
@end example

@subheading Description
@command{pipemod} is a @dfn{STREAMS} module that is pushed over one end of a @dfn{STREAMS}-based
bidirectional
@manpage{pipe(4)} to reverse the sense of the
@manpage{M_FLUSH(9)} command.  (See the
@ioctlref{I_FLUSH} command to
@manpage{ioctl(2s)} as described in
@manpage{streamio(7)}).

@dfn{STREAMS}-based pipes have a twist in the @dfn{Stream} at their midpoints.  At their midpoints,
the read-side @dfn{Stream} becomes the write-side @dfn{Stream} and visa versa.  As an M_FLUSH(9)
message traverses the twist, the sense of read-side and write-side must be reversed within the
message (as indicated by the @var{FLUSHW} and @var{FLUSHR} flags).

The reversal of flush flag sense across the twist is not so problematic for the pipe ends
(@dfn{Stream heads}), as described under "USAGE," below; however, when modules are pushed on either
pipe end, all
@manpage{M_FLUSH(9)} messages received on the module read-queue will have a flag
reversal, causing the module to flush the wrong side of the @dfn{Stream} if only @var{FLUSHR} or
only @var{FLUSHW} are specified.

@command{pipemod} corrects this problem for pushed modules by swapping the read and write side flush
flags across the module.  @command{pipemod} should be pushed over one end of the pipe before any
other modules are pushed so that the reversal is performed across the twist at the midpoint in a
@dfn{STREAMS}-based
@manpage{pipe(4)}.

@subheading Usage
@command{pipemod} should be pushed over one end of a newly created @dfn{STREAMS}-based
@manpage{pipe(4)}, before any other modules are pushed on either end of the pipe.  This ensures that
@command{pipemod} sits at the midpoint of the pipe, the necessary position for reversing the sense
of the
@manpage{M_FLUSH(9)} message flags.

On a bare @dfn{STREAMS}-based
@manpage{pipe(4)}, with no modules pushed, issuing the
@ioctlref{I_FLUSH} command to
@manpage{ioctl(2s)} with the @var{FLUSHR} flag will flush the
read-side queues at both @dfn{Stream heads} (pipe ends); @var{FLUSHW}, the write-side queues.
Because the @dfn{Stream head} does not queue on the write-side queue, @var{FLUSHR} has the same
effect as @var{FLUSHRW}, and @var{FLUSHW} has no effect.  When @command{pipemod} is pushed on a bare
pipe, @var{FLUSHR} flushes only the near read-side queue and @var{FLUSHW} flushes only the far
read-side queue.  Due to this difference in the @dfn{Stream head} flushing behaviour when
@command{pipemod} is pushed or not, it is good practise to always flush pipes with @var{FLUSHRW}.

@subheading Notices
It is not necessary to use @command{pipemod} if all flushes flush both read and write queues at the
same time, or if the @ioctlref{I_FLUSH} command is never issued on the pipe for one side of the
@dfn{Stream}, or the
@manpage{M_FLUSH(9)} command is never send by a pushed module for one side of
the @dfn{Stream}.

Note that the @dfn{Stream head} normally flushes the @dfn{Stream} on final close of the
@dfn{Stream}.  This flush is performed on both the read and write side of the @dfn{Stream} at the
same time, so the @dfn{Stream head} does not require @command{pipemod}.

Note that proper canonical
@manpage{M_FLUSH(9)} processing must be performed by all modules and
drivers.  See @manref{M_FLUSH(9)} for details.

@subheading Examples
Following is an example of the @code{s_pipe()} function which generates a @dfn{STREAMS}-based
software pipe and pushes the @command{pipemod} module on one end:
@cartouche
@float Example,pipemod:ex0
@caption{@emph{Pushing @command{pipemod}}}
@example
int s_pipe(int fds[2])
@{
    int err;

    if ((err = pipe(fds)) != 0)
        return (err);
    if ((err = ioctl(fds[0], I_PUSH, "pipemod")) < 0) @{
        close(fds[0]);
        close(fds[1]);
        return (err);
        @}
    return (0);
@}
@end example
@end float
@end cartouche

@subheading Modules
@command{pipemod} is a @dfn{STREAMS} module named "pipemod".

@subheading See Also
@manref{pipe(2s)}, @manref{spx(4)}, @manref{pipe(4)}, @manref{I_FLUSH(7)}, @manref{M_FLUSH(9)},
@manref{ioctl(2s)}, @manref{streamio(7)}.

@subheading Bugs
@command{pipemod} has no known bugs.

@subheading Compatibility
@command{pipemod} is compatible with @cite{SVR 4.2},@footnote{@cite{SVR 4.2, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V
Release 4.2 Programmer's Manual, 1992, (Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System
Laboratories, Inc., Prentice Hall.}} and implementations based on @cite{SVR 4.2}, including
@cite{AIX@registeredsymbol{}}, @cite{HP-UX@registeredsymbol{}}, @cite{IRIX@registeredsymbol{}}, @cite{LiS}, @cite{MacOT@registeredsymbol{}}, @cite{OSF/1@registeredsymbol{}},
@cite{Solaris@registeredsymbol{}}, @cite{SUPER-UX@registeredsymbol{}}, @cite{UnixWare@registeredsymbol{}}, @cite{UXP/V@registeredsymbol{}}, with the following
compatibility considerations:

@itemize --
@item
Not all implementations of @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS} support @dfn{STREAMS}-based pipes.  Those
that do, provide the @command{pipemod} module.
@end itemize

See
@manpage{STREAMS(9)} for additional compatibility information.

@subheading Conformance
@cite{SVR 4.2},@footnote{@cite{SVR 4.2, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4.2 Programmer's Manual, 1992,
(Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc., Prentice Hall.}}
@cite{SVID},@footnote{@cite{SVID, System V, Interface Definition, No. Fourth Edition.}}
@cite{XID},@footnote{@cite{XBD Issue 5, X/Open System Interface Definitions, Open Group, Open Group
Publication.  <@url{http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/}>}} @cite{SUSv2},@footnote{@cite{SUS
Issue 2, Single UNIX Specification, Open Group, Open Group Publication.
<@url{http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/}>}} @cite{SUSv3}.@footnote{@cite{SUS Version 3, Single
UNIX Specification, Open Group, Open Group Publication.
<@url{http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/}>}} Conformance is verified using the
@manpage{test-pipemod(8)} verification test suite.

@subheading History
@command{pipemod} first appeared in @cite{SVR 4}.@footnote{@cite{SVR 4, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4
Programmer's Manual, 1990, (Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.,
Prentice Hall.}}

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node connld Module
@subsection connld

@subheading Name
@command{connld} -- incomplete man page

@subheading Synopsis
@example
int pfds[2];

int s_pipe(pfds);

int ioctl(pfds[0], I_PUSH, "connld");

int fattach(pfds[0], "/tmp/server");

int ioctl(pfds[1], I_RECVFD, struct strfdinsert *fdi);
@end example

@subheading Description
@command{connld} is a @dfn{STREAMS} module that can be pushed over a @dfn{STREAMS}-based
bi-directional software pipe (see
@manpage{spx(4)}) to provide automatic generation of new
@dfn{STREAMS}-based bi-directional software pipes between a client and server process.

When
@manpage{open(2s)} is called on the end of a pipe upon which @command{connld} has been pushed
(see
@manpage{streamio(7)}) a new software pipe is created. The file descriptor for the far end of
the newly created pipe is sent to the other end of the existing pipe in the same fashion as an
@ioctlref{I_SENDFD} IO control (see
@manpage{streamio(7)}) and can be received at the other end of
the existing pipe with @ioctlref{I_RECVFD}.  The file descriptor returned by the
@manpage{open(2s)}
call will be the near end of the newly created pipe.

@subheading Usage
The normal usage of @command{connld} is as follows:

@enumerate

@item
A server process creates a software pipe using
@manpage{pipe(2s)} or
@manpage{spx(4)}.

@item
The server process pushes the @command{connld} module on the client end of the pipe using the
@ioctlref{I_PUSH} command of
@manpage{streamio(7)}.
@item
The server process names the client end of the pipe using
@manpage{fattach(3)}.

@item
The server process uses
@manpage{poll(2s)} to listen for received file descriptors on the server end
of the pipe.

@item
When a client process performs an
@manpage{open(2s)} on the file to which the client end of the pipe
has been named with
@manpage{fattach(3)}, @command{connld} creates a new pipe, sends the server side
file descriptor to the server with the @ioctlref{I_SENDFD} command of
@manpage{streamio(7)} and
returns the file descriptor of the client end of the new pipe in return to the
@manpage{open(2s)}
call.

@item
The server receives the file descriptor with the @ioctlref{I_RECVFD} command of
@manpage{streamio(7)} resulting in a unique per-client bi-directional @dfn{STREAMS}-based pipe for
each connecting client.

@end enumerate

@subheading Examples
A description and a client-server example for the @command{connld} module appears in @cite{Advanced
Programming in the UNIX@registeredsymbol{} Environment}.@footnote{@cite{Advanced Programming in the UNIX@registeredsymbol{}
Environment, No. 15th edition, December 1997, (Reading, Massachusetts), W. R. Stevens, Addison
Wesley. [ISBN 0-201-56317-7] 498.}}

@subheading modules
@command{connld} is a @dfn{STREAMS} module named "connld".

@subheading See Also
@manref{spx(4))}, @manref{open(2s)}, @manref{streamio(7)}, @manref{fattach(3)}, @manref{poll(2s)}.

@subheading Bugs
@command{connld} has no known bugs.

@subheading Compatibility
@command{connld} is compatible with @cite{Solaris@registeredsymbol{}}, @cite{UnixWare@registeredsymbol{}}
@cite{SVR4.2}@footnote{@cite{SVR 4.2, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4.2 Programmer's Manual, 1992,
(Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc., Prentice Hall.}} and
@cite{LiS}.@footnote{@cite{LIS 2.18, Linux STREAMS (LiS) @value{VERSION_LIS} Source Code, Brian Bidulock, ed.,
OpenSS7 Corporation. <@url{http://www.openss7.org/}>}}

@subheading Conformance
@cite{SVR 4.2},@footnote{@cite{SVR 4.2, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4.2 Programmer's Manual, 1992,
(Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc., Prentice Hall.}}
@cite{SVID},@footnote{@cite{SVID, System V, Interface Definition, No. Fourth Edition.}}
@cite{XID},@footnote{@cite{XBD Issue 5, X/Open System Interface Definitions, Open Group, Open Group
Publication. <@url{http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/}>}} @cite{SUSv2},@footnote{@cite{SUS Version
2, Single UNIX Specification, Open Group, Open Group Publication.
<@url{http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/}>}} @cite{SUSv3}.@footnote{@cite{SVR 4, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V
Release 4 Programmer's Manual, 1990, (Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories,
Inc., Prentice Hall.}} Conformance is verified using the test-connld(8) verification test suite.

@subheading History
@command{connld} first appeared in @cite{SVR 4}.@footnote{@cite{SVR 4, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4
Programmer's Manual, 1990, (Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.,
Prentice Hall.}}

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node sc Module
@subsection sc

@subheading Name
@command{sc} -- @dfn{STREAMS} configuration module

@subheading Synopsis
@example
#include <sys/stropts.h>
#include <sys/sc.h>

t = open(/dev/nuls, 0);

ioctl(t, I_PUSH, "sc");
@end example

@subheading Description
@command{sc} is a @dfn{STREAMS} configuration module for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}. It interprets
a set of @command{sc}
@manpage{ioctl(2s)} commands and provides information about the @dfn{STREAMS}
configuration. @command{sc} does not interpret any
@manpage{M_DATA(9)},
@manpage{M_PROTO(9)} or
@manpage{M_PCPROTO(9)} messages either from above or below the module. @command{sc} can be pushed on
the the null @dfn{Stream}
@manpage{nuls(4)} or any other suitable @dfn{Stream} available to the
caller (e.g.
@manpage{sad(4)}).

@subheading Usage
The @command{sc} module is not intended to be used directly by application program developers.  It
is used by the
@manpage{scls(8)} utility an other utilities needing to enquire about the
configuration of @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

@subheading Ioctls
This subsection details the
@manpage{ioctl(2s)} commands that are made available by pushing the
@command{sc} module. For general information on input-output controls for @dfn{STREAMS} drivers,
see
@manpage{streamio(7)}.

@subsubheading SC_IOC_LIST
@var{arg} is a pointer to a @var{sc_list} structure in the user's address space.

The sc_list structure contains the following members:

@example
struct sc_list @{
  int sc_nmods;
  struct sc_mlist *sc_mlist;
@};
@end example

@vtable @var
@item sc_nmods
On call specifies the number of @var{sc_mlist} structures that a provided in the caller's buffer
pointed to by @var{sc_mlist}. On return, specifies the number of @var{sc_mlist} structures that are
available to be written to the caller's buffer pointed to by @var{sc_mlist}, regardless of the space
provided by the caller.

@item @var{sc_mlist}
Provides a pointer to a user buffer that contains at least @var{sc_nmods} number of @var{sc_mlist}
structures in an array. The module will returns nor more than the number of modules available, or
the number of modules requested, whichever is less. However, @var{sc_nmods} will always return the
number of modules available.

By calling with a @var{sc_nmods} of zero and a @var{sc_mlist} of @samp{NULL}, the caller can
determine the number of modules that are available to be returned in @var{sc_mlist} so that the
buffer may be appropriately sized for a subsequent call.

The @var{sc_mlist} structure contains the following members:
@example
struct sc_mlist @{
  int major;
  struct module_info mi[4];
  struct module_stat ms[4];
@};
@end example

@vtable @var
@item major
Specifies the major device number for the driver whose information is contained in this entry.

@item mi
Contains the @mantype{module_info(9)} structures associated with the driver with the major device
number specified; or with the module if the major device number is zero. The four @var{mi}
structures correspond to those associated with the @member{qi_minfo} field of the
@member{st_rdinit}, @member{st_wrinit}, @member{st_muxrinit} and @member{st_muxwinit}
@mantype{qinit(9)} structures referenced by the driver or module's @mantype{streamtab(9)} structure.
For details of the @mantype{module_info(9)} structure, see
@manpage{module_info(9)}.

@item ms
Contains the
@manpage{module_stats(9)} structures associated with the driver with the major device
number specified; or with the module if the major device number is zero. The four @var{ms}
structures correspond to those associated with the @member{qi_mstat} field of the
@member{st_rdinit}, @member{st_wrinit}, @member{st_muxrinit} and @member{st_muxwinit}
@mantype{qinit(9)} structures referenced by the driver or module's @mantype{streamtab(9)} structure.
For details of the
@manpage{module_stat} structure, see
@manpage{module_stat(9)}.

@end vtable

@end vtable

@subheading Notices
Note that the @command{sc} module is not yet capable of copying and providing access to the private
statistics area indicated by the ms_xprt and ms_xsize members of the
@manpage{module_stat(9)}
structure. This is an unnecessary limitation. At some point it would make sense to add a
@var{SC_IOC_STATS} command that would retrieve both the
@manpage{module_stat(9)} structure and the
private statistics for a single module or driver.

@subheading Examples
See the source code for
@manpage{scls(8)}.

@subheading Modules
@command{sc} is a @dfn{STREAMS} module named "sc".

@subheading See Also
@manref{ioctl(2s)}, @manref{nuls(4)}, @manref{sad(4))}, @manref{scls(8)}, @manref{streamio(7)},
@manref{autopush(8)}, @manref{scls(8)}, @manref{streamtab(9)}, @manref{module_info(9)},
@manref{module_stat(9)}.

@subheading Bugs
The @command{sc} module has no known bugs.

@subheading Compatibility
Many implementations of @dfn{STREAMS} have some mechanism for augmenting the functionality of the
@manpage{sad(4)} driver. Some implementations, such as @cite{AIX@registeredsymbol{}},@footnote{@cite{AIX@registeredsymbol{} 5L
Version 5.1, AIX STREAMS Programmers Guide, 2001, (Boulder, Colorado), Internatonal Business
Machines Corp., IBM. <@url{http://publibn.boulder.ibm.com/}>}}
@cite{HP-UX@registeredsymbol{}},@footnote{@cite{STREAMS/UX, STREAMS/UX for the HP 9000 Reference Manual, 1995, (Palo
Alto, California), Hewlett-Packard Company, HP. <@url{http://docs.hp.com/}>}} provide an
@command{sc} module for this purpose.

@itemize --
@item
@cite{AIX@registeredsymbol{}}@footnote{@cite{AIX@registeredsymbol{} 5L Version 5.1, AIX STREAMS Programmers Guide, 2001, (Boulder,
Colorado), Internatonal Business Machines Corp., IBM. <@url{http://publibn.boulder.ibm.com/}>}}
provides an @command{sc} module for the purpose of allowing autopush(8) to use device names instead
of major device numbers, and to support the scls(8) utility.

@item
@cite{AIX@registeredsymbol{}}@footnote{@cite{AIX@registeredsymbol{} 5L Version 5.1, AIX STREAMS Programmers Guide, 2001, (Boulder,
Colorado), Internatonal Business Machines Corp., IBM. <@url{http://publibn.boulder.ibm.com/}>}}
requires the use of the @command{sc} modules with the nuls(4) driver.

@item
@cite{HP-UX@registeredsymbol{}}@footnote{@cite{STREAMS/UX, STREAMS/UX for the HP 9000 Reference Manual, 1995, (Palo
Alto, California), Hewlett-Packard Company, HP. <@url{http://docs.hp.com/}>}} describes the
@command{sc} module as a core @dfn{STREAMS} module used by
@manpage{autopush(8)} and provides
support for device names instead of device numbers, and providing supplemental functions for the
@manpage{sad(4)} driver.

@item
@command{sc} can be pushed over any @dfn{Stream}, unlike the @cite{AIX@registeredsymbol{}} or @cite{HP-UX@registeredsymbol{}}
documentation. The user must have sufficient privilege to push the @command{sc} module.

@item
Internals of the @command{sc} module is implementation dependent, not subject to standardization,
and not documented. This manual page documents the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} implementation of
the @command{sc} module. Compatibility with other implementations is not guaranteed.

@end itemize

@subheading Conformance
None. (This manual page.) Conformance is verified using the
@manpage{test-sc(8)} verification test
suite.

@subheading History
An @command{sc} module for extending the capabilities of the
@manpage{sad(4)} driver appear in
@cite{AIX@registeredsymbol{}}@footnote{@cite{AIX@registeredsymbol{} 5L Version 5.1, AIX STREAMS Programmers Guide, 2001, (Boulder,
Colorado), Internatonal Business Machines Corp., IBM. <@url{http://publibn.boulder.ibm.com/}>}} and
@cite{HP-UX@registeredsymbol{}}@footnote{@cite{STREAMS/UX, STREAMS/UX for the HP 9000 Reference Manual, 1995, (Palo
Alto, California), Hewlett-Packard Company, HP. <@url{http://docs.hp.com/}>}} documentation.

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node bufmod Module
@subsection bufmod


@subheading Name
@command{bufmod} -- @dfn{STREAMS} null module

@subheading Synopsis
@example
int fd;

int open("/dev/nuls", 0);

int ioctl(fd, I_PUSH, "bufmod");
@end example

@subheading Description
@command{bufmod} is a @dfn{STREAMS} module that is pushed over any @dfn{Stream}, @dfn{STREAMS}-based
pipe(4) or @dfn{STREAMS}-based fifo(4).

Aside from being a @dfn{STREAMS} module, @command{bufmod} performs no actions other than to perform
flow control and queueing of messages.  All messages passed from the @dfn{Stream head} toward the
@command{bufmod} module are passed on downstream from the @command{bufmod} write-side put procedure
(with
@manpage{putnext(9)}) when flow control conditions are not in effect.  When flow controlled,
messages are placed on the write-side queue to be scheduled from the module's service procedure.
All messages received from the driver, are passed on upstream from the read-side put procedure, or
scheduled for the read-side service procedure under flow control.

@subheading Usage
The primary purpose of @command{bufmod} is as a test module for use with the
@manpage{test-streams(8)} conformance test program, and the
@manpage{perftest(8)} performance
benchmarking program.  The other purpose of @command{bufmod} is as an example skeleton for a
@dfn{STREAMS} pushable module.

@subheading Notices
@command{bufmod} is implementation-specific to the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@subheading Examples
The source code for @command{bufmod} serves as an example skeleton for a @dfn{STREAMS} pushable
module.

@subheading Modules
@command{bufmod} is a @dfn{STREAMS} module named "bufmod".

@subheading See Also
@manref{open(2s)}, @manref{ioctl(2s)}, @manref{streamio(7)}, @manref{putnext(9)}.

@subheading Bugs
@command{bufmod} has no known bugs.

@subheading Compatibility
@command{bufmod} is compatible with the null module described in the @cite{SVR 4.0}, @cite{STREAMS
Programmer's Guide},@footnote{@cite{SVR 4, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4 STREAMS Programmer's Guide,
1990, (Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc., Prentice Hall.  Section
6.1.1.1, "Null Module Example".}} with the following portability considerations:

@itemize --
@item
The null module example of @cite{SVR 4.0} does not queue messages and has no service procedure.  See
also
@manpage{nullmod(4)}.

@item
@command{bufmod} is specific to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}, and will not be used by portable
@dfn{STREAMS} modules, drivers and applications programs.

@item
The @cite{SVR 4.0 SPG}@footnote{@cite{SVR 4, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4 STREAMS Programmer's Guide,
1990, (Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc., Prentice Hall.  Section
6.1.1.1, "Null Module Example".}} does not name this module.  The name @command{bufmod} was chosen
for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

@item
@command{bufmod} is used as an example skeleton module and for use by the
@manpage{test-streams(8)}
conformance test program, and the
@manpage{perftest(8)} performance benchmarking program.  It will
not be used by portable @dfn{STREAMS} modules, drivers or applications.

@end itemize

See
@manpage{STREAMS(9)} for additional compatibility information.

@subheading Conformance
@cite{SVR 4.0}.@footnote{@cite{SVR 4, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4 STREAMS Programmer's Guide, 1990,
(Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc., Prentice Hall.  Section
6.1.1.1, "Null Module Example".}} Conformance is not verified.

@subheading History
@command{bufmod} first appeared in SVR 4.0.

@ignore
@subheading References
@footnote{@cite{SVR 4, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4 STREAMS Programmer's Guide, 1990, (Englewood
Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc., Prentice Hall.  Section 6.1.1.1, "Null
Module Example".}}
@end ignore


@c ============================================================================

@page
@node nullmod Module
@subsection nullmod

@subheading Name
@command{nullmod} -- @dfn{STREAMS} null module

@subheading Synopsis
@example
int fd;

int open("/dev/nuls", 0);

int ioctl(fd, I_PUSH, "nullmod");
@end example

@subheading Description
@command{nullmod} is a @dfn{STREAMS} module that is pushed over any @dfn{Stream},
@dfn{STREAMS}-based
@manpage{pipe(4)} or @dfn{STREAMS}-based
@manpage{fifo(4)}.

Aside from being a @dfn{STREAMS} module, @command{nullmod} performs no actions.  All messages passed
from the @dfn{Stream head} toward the @command{nullmod} module are passed on downstream from the
@command{nullmod} write-side put procedure (with
@manpage{putnext(9)}); all messages received from
the driver, are passed on upstream from the read-side put procedure.  The @command{nullmod} module
has no write- or read-side service procedure.

@subheading Usage
The primary purpose of @command{nullmod} is as a test module for use with the
@manpage{test-streams(8)} conformance test program.  The other purpose of @command{nullmod} is as an
example skeleton for a @dfn{STREAMS} pushable module.

@subheading Notices
@command{nullmod} is implementation-specific to the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@subheading Examples
The source code for @command{nullmod} serves as an example skeleton for a @dfn{STREAMS} pushable
module.

@subheading Modules
@command{nullmod} is a STREAMS module named "nullmod".

@subheading See Also
@manref{open(2s)}, @manref{ioctl(2s)}, @manref{streamio(7)}, @manref{putnext(9)}.

@subheading Bugs
@command{nullmod} has no known bugs.

@subheading Compatibility
@command{nullmod} is compatible with the null module described in the @cite{SVR 4.0, "STREAMS Programmer's
Guide},@footnote{@cite{SVR 4, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4 STREAMS Programmer's Guide, 1990,
(Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc., Prentice Hall.  Section
6.1.1.1, "Null Module Example".}} with the following portability considerations:

@itemize --

@item
@command{nullmod} is specific to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}, and will not be used by portable
@dfn{STREAMS} modules, drivers and applications programs.

@item
The @cite{SVR 4.0 SPG} does not name this module.  The name @command{nullmod} was chosen for
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

@item
@command{nullmod} is used as an example skeleton module and for use by the
@manpage{test-streams(8)}
conformance test program.  It will not be used by portable @dfn{STREAMS} modules, drivers or
applications.

@end itemize

See
@manpage{STREAMS(9)} for additional compatibility information.

@subheading Conformance
SVR 4.0.@footnote{@cite{SVR 4, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4 STREAMS Programmer's Guide, 1990,
(Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc., Prentice Hall.  Section 6.1.1.1,
"Null Module Example".}} Conformance is verified using the test-nullmod(8) verification test suite.

@subheading History
@command{nullmod} first appeared in SVR 4.0.

@ignore
@subheading References
[1]
@footnote{@cite{SVR 4, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4 STREAMS Programmer's Guide, 1990, (Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc., Prentice Hall.  Section 6.1.1.1, "Null Module Example".}}
@end ignore


@c ============================================================================

@page
@node testmod Module
@subsection testmod

@subheading Name
 @command{testmod} -- @dfn{STREAMS} test module

@subheading Synopsis
@example
int fd;

int open("/dev/nuls", 0);

int ioctl(fd, I_PUSH, "testmod");
@end example

@subheading Description
@command{testmod} is a @dfn{STREAMS} module that is pushed over any @dfn{Stream}, @dfn{STREAMS}-based
@manpage{pipe(4)} or @dfn{STREAMS}-based
@manpage{fifo(4)}.

Aside from being a @dfn{STREAMS} module, @command{testmod} performs no actions on the data path.  All
messages passed from the @dfn{Stream head} toward the @command{testmod} module are passed on downstream
from the @command{testmod} write-side put procedure (with
@manpage{putnext(9)}); all messages received
from the driver, are passed on upstream from the read-side put procedure.  The @command{testmod}
module has no write- or read-side service procedure.

@command{testmod} does, however, respond to a number of specialized input-output controls that are
dedicated to performing functions in the kernel necessary for the execution of test cases on a
@dfn{Stream}.  These input-output controls are described below:

@subsubheading IOCTLS
The following input-output control command can be executed on the file descriptor @var{fd} after the
@command{testmod} module has been pushed:

@vtable @var
@item TM_IOC_HANGUP
Send a
@manpage{M_HANGUP(9)} message to the @dfn{Stream head}.

This input-output control command takes no argument.  It is used primarily by
@manpage{test-streams(8)} to test the reaction to system calls executed on a @dfn{Stream} that is
hung up.

@item TM_IOC_RDERR
Send a two-byte
@manpage{M_ERROR(9)} message to the @dfn{Stream head} with the read error set to
@var{arg} and the write error set to @var{NOERROR}.

This input-output control command takes a single argument that contains the error number to be
placed in the read error byte of the
@manpage{M_ERROR(9)} message.  It is used primarily by
@manpage{test-streams(8)} to test the reaction to system calls executed on a @dfn{Stream} that has a
read error.

@item TM_IOC_WRERR
Send a two-byte
@manpage{M_ERROR(9)} message to the @dfn{Stream head} with the read error set to
@var{NOERROR} and the write error set to @var{arg}.

This input-output control command takes a single argument that contains the error number to
be placed in the write error byte of the
@manpage{M_ERROR(9)} message.  It is used primarily by
@manpage{test-streams(8)} to test the reaction to system calls executed on a @dfn{Stream} that has a
write error.

@item TM_IOC_RWERR
Send a one-byte
@manpage{M_ERROR(9)} message to the @dfn{Stream head} with the error set to
@var{arg}.

This input-output control command takes a single argument that contains the error number to be
placed in the
@manpage{M_ERROR(9)} message.  It is used primarily by
@manpage{test-streams(8)} to test
the reaction to system calls executed on a @dfn{Stream} that has an error.

@end vtable

@subheading Usage
The primary purpose of @command{testmod} is as a test module for use with the
@manpage{test-streams(8)} conformance test program.  The other purpose of @command{testmod} is as an
example of a @dfn{STREAMS} pushable module.

@subheading Notices
@command{testmod} is implementation-specific to the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@subheading Examples
The source code for @command{testmod} serves as an example for a @dfn{STREAMS} pushable module.

@subheading Modules
@command{testmod} is a @dfn{STREAMS} module named "testmod".

@subheading See Also
@dfn{open(2s)}, @dfn{ioctl(2s)}, @dfn{streamio(7)}, @dfn{putnext(9)}, @dfn{nullmod(4)}.

@subheading Bugs
@command{testmod} has no known bugs.

@subheading Compatibility
@command{testmod} is compatible with the null module described in the @cite{SVR 4.0, "STREAMS Programmer's
Guide"},@footnote{@cite{SVR 4, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4 STREAMS Programmer's Guide, 1990,
(Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc., Prentice Hall.}} with the
following portability considerations:

@itemize --
@item
@command{testmod} is specific to @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}, and will not be used by portable
@dfn{STREAMS} modules, drivers and applications programs.

@item
The @cite{SVR 4.0 SPG} does not name this module.  The name @command{testmod} was chosen for
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.  See also
@manpage{nullmod(4)}.

@item
@command{testmod} is used as an example skeleton module and for use by the
@manpage{test-streams(8)}
conformance test program.  It will not be used by portable @dfn{STREAMS} module, drivers or
applications.

@end itemize

See
@manpage{STREAMS(9)} for additional compatibility information.

@subheading Conformance
@cite{SVR 4.0}.@footnote{@cite{SVR 4, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4 STREAMS Programmer's Guide, 1990,
(Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc., Prentice Hall.}}

@subheading History
@command{testmod} first appeared in SVR 4.0.

@ignore
@subheading References
 [1]
@footnote{@cite{SVR 4, UNIX@registeredsymbol{} System V Release 4 STREAMS Programmer's Guide, 1990, (Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc., Prentice Hall.}}
@end ignore


