@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.39 2008-04-25 11:50:49 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-25 11:50:49 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2.3::		Release 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2.2::		Release 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2.1::		Release 1
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.6.rc3::		Release 6 Candidate 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.6.rc2::		Release 6 Candidate 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.6rc1::		Release 6 Candidate 1
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.5::		Release 5
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.4::		Release 4
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.3::		Release 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-3::		Release 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-2::		Release 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-1::		Release 1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

This is the thirteenth  @cite{OpenSS7 Project} release of @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.  @cite{LiS} was fully deprecated as of the previous release and
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} is the only STREAMS package contained in the OpenSS7
Master Package (since @file{openss7-0.9.2.D}).

This release is a stable, production grade release.  The release includes
maintenance support for recent distributions and tool chain, but also includes
some performance and feature upgrades and inspection bug fixes.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Minor documentation corrections.

@item
Kernel module license made explicit "GPL v2".  And then changed back to "GPL".

@item
License upgrade to AGPL Version 3.

@item
Modifications to build under Fedora 2.6.22.5-49 kernel.  These changes also
support 2.6.22.9-91.fc7 kernel.

@item
Added SNMP MIB and AgentX sub-agent for STREAMS.  This is a rather significant
addition to Linux Fast-STREAMS which permits remote management of the entire
STREAMS subsystem using SNMP.

@item
Ability to strap out major documentation build and installation primarily for
embedded targets.

@item
Improvements to common build process for embedded and cross-compile targets.

@item
Support for flex 2.5.33  in maintainer mode.

@end itemize

@emph{This is a public stable production grade release of the package: it
deprecates previous releases.  Please upgrade to the current release before
reporting bugs.}

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs and
builds RPMs and DEBs for a wide range of Linux 2.4 and 2.6 RPM- and DPKG-based
distributions, and can be used on production kernels without patching or
recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released under the @cite{GNU Affero General Public License
Version 3}.  The release is available as an @command{autoconf} tarball, SRPM,
DSC, and set of binary RPMs and DEBs.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html,downloads page} for the
@command{autoconf} tarballs, SRPMs and DSCs.  For tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and
binary RPMs and DEBs, see the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html,@value{PACKAGE} package
page}.

See
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog}
and @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS}
in the release for more information.  Also, see the @file{STREAMS.pdf} manual in
the release (also in html @uref{http://www.openss7.org/STREAMS_manual.html}).

@ignore
For the news release, see @uref{http://www.openss7.org/rel20070315_K.html}.
@end ignore

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2.3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2.3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2.3

This is the twelveth  @cite{OpenSS7 Project} release of @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  @cite{LiS} was
fully deprecated as of the previous release and @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} is the only STREAMS
package contained in the OpenSS7 Master Package (since @file{openss7-0.9.2.D}).

This release is a stable, production grade release.  The release includes maintenance support for
recent distributions and tool chain, but also includes some performance and feature upgrades and
inspection bug fixes.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Support build on openSUSE 10.2.

@item
Support build on Fedora 7 and 2.6.21 kernel.

@item
The @manref{strace(8)}, @manref{strerr(8)} utilities and @manref{log(4)} driver have had some
corrections.  The STREAMS trace logger is now an excellent way for trace logging of fielded
production drivers.  A number of OpenSS7 drivers have already been converted to use this facility.

@item
Support build on CentOS 5.0 (RHEL5).

@item
Support build on Ubuntu 7.04.

@item
Significant rework of the Stream head and both enabling and backenabling utilities.  Handling of
enabling flags QWANTR and QWANTW were not being performed quite properly.  Also, service procedures
for the read side stream head queue was added to defer wakeups when possible.  The result is very
significant performance improvements (like it wasn't fast enough already).

STREAMS-based pipes in this package now perform 2 to 5 times (yes %200 to %500) faster than the
old legacy 4.1BSD/SVR4 Linux pipes currently in the kernel: perhaps we should shout the "Fast" too.

The impact of these performance changes is that @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} now runs faster and looser
on SMP systems: if your drivers have race conditions they will likely be exacerbated by this
version.

@item
Corrected a few bugs.  See BUGS in the release for more information.

@item
Significant rework of STREAMS syncrhonization.  OSF/1-Mentat style syncrhonization levels, Solaris
style perimeters, and SVR 4.2 style load refusal are fully supported.  Some idiosynchracies of AIX,
HP-UX, MacOT and VxWorks is also supported.

@item
Updated to gettext 0.16.1.

@item
Changes to support build on 2.6.20-1.2307.fc5 and 2.6.20-1.2933.fc6 kernel.

@item
Supports build on Fedora Core 6.

@item
Support for recent distributions and tool chains.

@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2.2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2.2
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2.2

This is the eleventh @cite{OpenSS7 Project} release of @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.  @cite{LiS} was fully deprecated as of the previous release and
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} is now the only STREAMS package contained in the
OpenSS7 Master Package (since @file{openss7-0.9.2.D}).

This release is a stable, production grade release for @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.  The release is primarily a maintenance release to support recent
distributions and tool chain.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Fix for clone open failure locking problems, demand loading of clone minors,
an error in clone minor device deregistration, and an error in queue
syncrhornization.  See
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/BUGS} in
the release for more information.

@item
Added feature to perform automatic reference counting of modules for the
@manpage{esballoc(9)} free routines on Linux 2.6 kernels.  See new
@manref{esballoc(9)}.

@item
Added versions to all exported symbols.  Made LFS unique functions GPL export.

@item
Improvements to the common build environment with better support for standalone
package builds on 2.4 kernels.

@item
Support for autoconf 2.61, automake 1.10 and gettext 0.16.

@item
Support for Ubuntu 6.10 distribution and bug fixes for i386 kernels.

@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2.1
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2.1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2.1

This is the tenth @cite{OpenSS7 Project} release of @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.
The release number has been moved from the 0.9a sequence to 0.9.2 to indicate
that the package has moved to a production grade.  @cite{LiS} has been fully
deprecated by this release and @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} is now the only
STREAMS package contained in the OpenSS7 Master Package
(@file{openss7-0.9.2.D}).

This release is a stable, production grade release for @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.  The release is primarily a maintenance release.  Some minor
defect corrections have been applied, but no significant development has
occurred.  The release provides the following enhancements and fixes:

@itemize -
@item
Testing of, and a few bug corrections to, the strlog() feature.  Trace and
error logging working well.

@item
Support for most recent 2.6.18 kernels (including Fedora Core 5 with inode
diet patch set).

@item
The package now builds a replacement libLiS and libpLiS library so that user
applications written to work with LiS-2.18.1 through LiS-@value{VERSION_LIS}
do no need to be recompiled.  Added versions to all library symbols in all
three libraries.

@item
Minor bug fixes to STREAMS library.  isastream(3) and fattach(3) must not
contain an asynchronous thread cancellation point, but they could.  Added
asynchronous thread cancellation protection to these functions to remove any
thread cancellation points.

@item
Now builds 32-bit compatibility libraries, as well, and tests them against
64-bit kernel modules and drivers.  The @samp{make installcheck} target will
now automatically test both 64-bit native and 32-bit compatibility versions,
one after the other, on 64-bit platforms.

@item
Many documentation updates for all @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7}
packages.  Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and
timely text documentation present in the release directory.

@item
Dropped support for @cite{LiS}.

@item
Updated @command{init} scripts for proper addition and removal of modules.

@item
Start assigning majors at major device number 231 instead of major device
number 230.  Assign major device number 230 explicitly to the clone device.
Package will now support extended ranges of minor devices on 2.6 kernels under
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} only.  @cite{@value{PACKAGE}} now supports expanded
addressable minor device numbers, permitting 2^16 addressable minor devices
per major device number on 2.6 kernels: @cite{LiS} cannot support this change.

@item
Better detection of SUSE distributions, release numbers and SLES
distributions: support for additional @cite{SuSE} distributions on @code{ix86}
as well as @code{x86_64}.  Added distribution support includes @cite{SLES 9},
@cite{SLES 9 SP2}, @cite{SLES 9 SP3}, @cite{SLES 10}, @cite{SuSE 10.1}.

@item
Improved compiler flag generation and optimizations for recent @command{gcc}
compilers and some idiosyncratic behaviour for some distributions (primarily
SUSE).

@item
Optimized compilation is now available also for user level programs in
addition to kernel programs.  Added new @option{--with-optimize} option to
@command{configure} to accomplish this.

@item
Added @command{--disable-devel} @command{configure} option to suppress
building and installing development environment.  This feature is for embedded
or pure runtime targets that do not need the development environment (static
libraries, manual pages, documentation).

@item
Added @command{send-pr} script for automatic problem report generation.

@item
The package will now build doxygen(1) html documentation with the 'doxy'
make target.  See 'make help' or README-make in the distribution for more
information.
@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.6.rc3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.6.rc3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.6.rc3

Third release candidate.

@itemize -
@item
Minor bug fixes to STREAMS library.  isastream(3) and fattach(3) must not
contain an asynchronous thread cancellation point, but they could.  Added
asynchronous thread cancellation protection to these functions to remove any
thread cancellation points.

@item
The package will now build doxygen(1) html documentation with the 'doxy' make
target.  See 'make help' or README-make in the distribution for more
information.

@item
Now builds 32-bit compatibility libraries and tests them against 64-bit kernel
modules and drivers.  The @samp{make installcheck} target will now automatically
test both 64-bit native and 32-bit compatibility versions, one after the other,
on 64-bit platforms.

@item
Added versions to all library symbols.

@item
Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and timely text
documentation present in the release directory.

@item
Many documentation updates for all @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7}
packages.

@item
This release candidate includes the changes made to the strsctp drivers at the
@cite{2006 SCTP Interop} at the @cite{University of British Columbia}.  This
version was interoperability tested with all implementations present.

@item
This release candidate provides support for additional @cite{SuSE} distributions
on @code{ix86} as well as @code{x86_64}.  Added distribution support includes
@cite{SLES 9}, @cite{SLES 9 SP2}, @cite{SLES 9 SP3}, @cite{SLES 10}, @cite{SuSE
10.1}.

@item
Better detection of SUSE distributions, release numbers and SLES distributions.

@item
Optimized compilation is now available also for user level programs in addition
to kernel programs.  Added new @option{--with-optimize} option to
@command{configure} to accomplish this.

@item
Improved compiler flag generation and optimizations for recent @command{gcc}
compilers and some idiosyncratic behaviour for some distributions (primarily
SUSE):

@multitable @columnfractions .01 .99
@item @minus{} @tab Remove @option{-fno-reorder-blocks} and
@option{-fno-reorder-functions} options added by some recent 2.6
@file{Makefile}s for @samp{x86_64} architecture: it impedes performance
optimizations.
@item @minus{} @tab Remove @option{-ffunction-sections} option added by some
recent 2.6 @file{Makefile}s for @samp{x86_64} architecture: this is an
insane option and should never have been used.
@item @minus{} @tab Add @option{-ffreestanding} that some older 2.6
@file{Makefile}s (such as that with @cite{SLES 9 2.6.5} kernel) neglect to add
to the @command{gcc} command line.
@item @minus{} @tab @cite{SLES 10} expands the directory before
@file{autoconf.h} on the @command{gcc} command line for some reason.
@command{configure} script watches out for this now.
@end multitable

@item
Updated @command{init} scripts for proper addition and removal of modules.

@item
Start assigning majors at major device number 231 instead of major device
number 230.  Assign major device number 230 explicitly to the clone device.

@item
@cite{@value{PACKAGE}} now supports expanded addressable minor device numbers,
permitting 2^16 addressable minor devices per major device number on 2.6
kernels: @cite{LiS} cannot support this change.
@end itemize

This release is an internal release candidate and was not publicly released.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.6.rc2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.6.rc2
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.6.rc2

Second release candidate.

This release candidate also contains the results of performance testing of the
new second generation @dfn{UDP} driver (implemented completely in
@dfn{STREAMS} instead of using an internal socket).

This release candidate also contains support for @cite{SuSE 10.1}.

This release is an internal release candidate and was not publicly released.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.6rc1
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.6rc1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.6rc1

Release candidate for Mark Fugate.

Added @samp{--enable-devel} @command{configure} option for embedded targets.
Added @command{send-pr} script for automatic problem report generation.

This release is an internal release candidate and was not publicly released.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.5
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.5
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.5

This release is primarily to support additional compilers (gcc 4.0.2),
architectures (x86_64, SMP, 32-bit compatibility), recent Linux distributions
(EL4, SuSE 10, LE2006, OpenSuSE) and kernels (2.6.15).

@itemize -
@item
Changes to wait queues.  Split single wait queue into four independent
wait queues.  Reworked wait queues for both old style (2.4) and new style (2.6)
semantics.

@item
Changes to satisfy gcc 4.0.2 compiler.

@item
Corrected build flags for Gentoo and 2.6.15 kernels as reported on mailing
list.  Build and run tested on FC4 i686 and x86_64 kernels based on 2.6.15.

@item
Corrections for and testing of 64-bit clean compile and test runs on
x86_64 architecture.  Some bug corrections resulting from gcc 4.0.2 compiler
warnings.

@item
Initial corrections for and testing of SMP operation on Intel 630
Hyper-Threaded SMP on x86_64.  This package should now run well on N-way Xeons
even with Hyper-Threading enabled.

@item
Corrections and validation of 32-bit compatibility over 64-bit on x86_64.
Should apply well to other 64-bit architectures as well.
@end itemize

This is a public beta test release of the package.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.4
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.4
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.4

This is primarily a bug fixes release and corrections resulting from testing.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.3

With this release version numbers were changed to reflect an upstream version
only to be consistent with other OpenSS7 package releases.  All @cite{RPM}
release numbers will be @samp{-1$(PACKAGE_RPMEXTRA)} and all @cite{Debian}
release numbers will be @samp{_0}.  If you wish to apply patches and release
the package, please bump up the release number and apply a suitable release
suffix for your organization.  We leave @cite{Debian} release number @samp{_1}
reserved for your use, so you can still bundle the source in the @file{.dsc}
file.

Major changes for this release include build against Linux 2.6 kernels and
popular distributions based on the 2.6 kernel as well as wider distribution
support.

This was an internal beta test release and was not released publicly.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-3

Updates to common build process.  Documentation updates.

This was an internal alpha test release and was not released publicly.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-2
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-2

Removed all XTI/TLI and Linux networking code, headers and documentation from
streams distribution and set epoch at 0.  Linux networking code has been
migrated to the strxnet, strinet and strsctp packages.  The purpose for doing
this was to allow the Linux networking to build against
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} as well as @cite{Linux STREAMS} and is a
preparation for phasing out LiS and phasing in LfS.

This was an internal alpha test release and was not released publicly.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-1
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-1

This is the initial release of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package for Linux.
This is intended as a high-performance, production replacement for @cite{Linux
STREAMS (LiS)}.  @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} has the following features:

@itemize -
@item optimized for Linux kernels.
@item prepared for mainstream Linux kernel adoption.
@item lindented and follows kernel coding practises.
@item compatibility modes for AIX, HPUX, OSF, Solaris, UnixWare, SVR 4.2 and LiS.
@item supports all major SVR4.2 variants.
@item licensed under GPL with commercial licensing available.
@item supports full SVR 4.2 MP synchronization models.
@item runs at SoftIRQ.
@item provides common SVR 4.2 system tunable parameters and sysctls.
@item provides /proc file system access for debugging and performance tuning.
@item provides a full set of common STREAMS modules and drivers.
@item provides full name-streams device and shadow special file system support.
@end itemize

This was an internal alpha test release and was not released publicly.

