@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: releases.texi,v 0.9.2.24 2006/08/16 07:36:25 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/08/16 07:36:25 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is the OpenSS7 Release of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} core, tools, drivers and modules that
implement the @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS utility for Linux.
This package is intended as a replacement package for @dfn{Linux STREAMS (LiS)}.

The following sections provide information on @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} releases as well as
compatibility information of OpenSS7 release to mainstream UNIX releases of the core, modules and
drivers, as well as Linux kernel compatibility.

@menu
* Prerequisites::		Prerequisite packages
* Compatibility::		Compatibility Issues
* Release Notes::		Release Notes
* Maturity::			Package Maturity
* Bugs::			Package Defects
* Schedule::			Development and Bug Fix Schedule
* History::			Project History
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Prerequisites
@section Prerequisites
@cindex prerequisites

Prerequisites for the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package are as follows:

@itemize @bullet
@item A fairly LSB compliant GNU/Linux distribution.
@footnote{@xref{GNU/Linux Distributions}, for more information.}
@item Linux 2.4 or 2.6 kernel (2.4.10 - 2.4.27) or (2.6.3 - 2.6.17)
@item glibc2 or better.
@item GNU info (for info files).
@item GNU groff (for man pages).
@footnote{If you are using a Debian release, please make sure to install the groff extension package
(@samp{groff_ext}), as it contains the @command{refer} or @command{grefer} commands necessary for
including references in the manual pages.}
@end itemize

If you need to rebuild the package from sources with modifications, you will need a larger GNU
toolchain as described in @xref{Downloading from CVS}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Compatibility
@section Compatibility
@cindex compatibility

This section discusses compatibility with major prerequisites.

@menu
* GNU/Linux Distributions::	Compatibility to GNU/Linux Distributions
* Linux Kernel::		Compatibility to Linux Kernels
* Linux Architectures::		Compatibility to Linux Architectures
* Linux STREAMS::		Compatibility to LiS
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node GNU/Linux Distributions
@subsection GNU/Linux Distributions
@cindex GNU/Linux Distributions

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is compatible with the following @dfn{Linux}
distributions:@footnote{Items marked as @samp{TBD} are scheduled to have support deprecated.  That
is, in a future release, the distributions marked @samp{TBD} will not longer be validated before
release.}

@itemize @bullet
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 3.4 (centos34)
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 4.0 (centos4)
@item Debian 3.0r2 Woody (deb3.0) -- TBD
@item Debian 3.1r0a Sarge (deb3.1)
@item Fedora Core 1 (FC1) -- TBD
@item Fedora Core 2 (FC2) -- TBD
@item Fedora Core 3 (FC3) -- TBD
@item Fedora Core 4 (FC4)
@item Fedora Core 5 (FC5)
@item Gentoo 2006.1 (untested)
@item Lineox 4.026 (LEL4) -- TBD
@item Lineox 4.053 (LEL4)
@item Mandrakelinux 9.2 (MDK92) -- TBD
@item Mandrakelinux 10.0 (MDK100) -- TBD
@item Mandrakelinux 10.1 (MDK101) -- TBD
@item Mandriva Linux LE2005 (MDK102) -- TBD
@item Mandriva Linux LE2006 (MDK103)
@item Mandriva One (untested)
@item Performance Technlogies @dfn{NexusWare24} -- TBD
@item Performance Technologies NexusWare 8.0
@item RedHat Linux 7.2 (RH7)
@item RedHat Linux 7.3 (RH7)
@item RedHat Linux 8.0 (RH8) -- TBD
@item RedHat Linux 9 (RH9) -- TBD
@item RedHat Enterprise Linux 3.0 (EL3)
@item RedHat Enterprise Linux 4 (EL4)
@item SuSE 8.0 Professional (SuSE8.0) -- TBD
@item SuSE 9.1 Personal (SuSE9.1) -- TBD
@item SuSE 9.2 Professional (SuSE9.2) -- TBD
@item SuSE OpenSuSE (SuSEOSS)
@item SuSE 10.0 (SuSE10.0)
@item SuSE 10.1 (SuSE10.1)
@item SLES 9 (SLES9)
@item SLES 9 SP2 (SLES9)
@item SLES 9 SP3 (SLES9)
@item SLES 10 (SLES10)
@item Ubuntu 5.10 (ubu5.10)
@item Ubuntu 6.06 LTS (ubu6.06)
@item WhiteBox Enterprise Linux 3.0 (WBEL3)
@item WhiteBox Enterprise Linux 4 (WBEL4)
@end itemize

When installing from the tarball (@pxref{Installing the Tar Ball}), this distribution is probably
compatible with a  much broader array of distributions than those listed above.  These are the
distributions against which the current maintainer creates and tests builds.

@node Linux Kernel
@subsection Kernel
@cindex Kernel

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package compiles as a @dfn{Linux} kernel module.  It is not
necessary to patch the @dfn{Linux} kernel to build or use the package.@footnote{At a later date, it
is possible to move this package into the kernel, however, with continued resistance to STREAMS from
within the @dfn{Linux} developer community, this is currently unlikely.} Nor do you have to
recompile your kernel to build or use the package.  OpenSS7 packages use @command{autoconf} scripts
to adapt the package source to your existing kernel.  The package builds and runs nicely against
production kernels from the distributions listed above.  Rather than relying on kernel versions, the
@command{autoconf} scripts interrogate the kernel for specific features and variants to better adapt
to distribution production kernels that have had patches applied over the official
@url{http://www.kernel.org/, kernel.org} sources.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is compatible with 2.4 kernel series after 2.4.10 and has
been tested up to and including 2.4.27.  It has been tested from 2.6.3 up to and including 2.6.17.
Please note that your mileage may vary if you use a kernel more recent than 2.6.17: it is difficult
to anticipate changes that kernel developers will make in the future.  Many kernels in the 2.6
series now vary widely ny release version and if you encounter problems, try a kernel within the
supported series.

UP validation testing for kernels is performed on all supported architectures.  SMP validation
testing is performed on UP machines, as well as on an Intel 3.0GHz Pentium IV 630 with
HyperThreading enabled.  Because HyperThreading is not as independent as multiple CPUs, SMP
validation testing is limited.

@node Linux Architectures
@subsection Architectures
@cindex Architectures

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package compiles and installs on a wide range of architectures.
Although it is believed that the package will work on all architectures supported by the Linux
kernel being used, validation testing has only been performed with the following architectures:

@itemize
@item ix86
@item x86_64
@item ppc (MPC 860)
@item ppc64
@end itemize

32-bit compatibility validation testing is performed on all 64-bit architectures supporting 32-bit
compatibility.  If you would like to validate an OpenSS7 package on a specific machine architecture,
you are welcome to sponsor the project with a test machine.

@node Linux STREAMS
@subsection Linux STREAMS
@cindex Linux STREAMS

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides a suitable replacement for the (now deprecated) @dfn{Linux
STREAMS (LiS) 2.18.0} package formerly maintained by Dave Goethe of @uref{http://www.gcom.com/,GCOM}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release Notes
@section Release Notes
@cindex release notes

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @*
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.5::		Release 5
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.4::		Release 4
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.3::		Release 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-3::		Release 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-2::		Release 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-1::		Release 1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@subsection Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

Added @samp{--enable-devel} @command{configure} option for embedded targets.
Added @command{send-pr} script for automatic problem report generation.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.5
@subsection Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.5
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.5

This release is primarily to support additional compilers (gcc 4.0.2), architectures (x86_64, SMP,
32-bit compatibility), recent Linux distributions (EL4, SuSE 10, LE2006, OpenSuSE) and kernels
(2.6.15).

@itemize @bullet
@item Changes to wait queues.  Split single wait queue into four independent wait queues.  Reworked
wait queues for both old style (2.4) and new style (2.6) semantics.
@item Changes to satisfy gcc 4.0.2 compiler.
@item Corrected build flags for Gentoo and 2.6.15 kernels as reported on mailing list.  Build and
run tested on FC4 i686 and x86_64 kernels based on 2.6.15.
@item Corrections for and testing of 64-bit clean compile and test runs on x86_64 architecture.
Some bug corrections resulting from gcc 4.0.2 compiler warnings.
@item Initial corrections for and testing of SMP operation on Intel 630 Hyper-Threaded SMP on
x86_64.  This package should now run well on N-way Xeons even with Hyper-Threading enabled.
@item Corrections and validation of 32-bit compatibilty over 64-bit on x86_64.  Should apply well to
other 64-bit architectures as well.
@end itemize

This is a public beta test release of the package.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.4
@subsection Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.4
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.4

This is primarily a bug fixes release and corrections resulting from testing.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.3
@subsection Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a.3

With this release version numbers were changed to reflect an upstream version only to be consistent
with other OpenSS7 package releases.  All @cite{RPM} release numbers will be
@samp{-1$(PACKAGE_RPMEXTRA)} and all @cite{Debian} release numbers will be @samp{_0}.  If you wish
to apply patches and relelease the package, please bump up the release number and apply a suitable
release suffix for your organization.  We leave @cite{Debian} release number @samp{_1} reserved for
your use, so you can still bundle the source in the @file{.dsc} file.

Major changes for this release include build against Linux 2.6 kernels and popular distributions
based on the 2.6 kernel as well as wider distribution support.

This was an internal beta test release and was not released publicly.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-3
@subsection Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-3

Updates to common build process.  Documentation updates.

This was an internal alpha test release and was not released publicly.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-2
@subsection Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-2
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-2

Removed all XTI/TLI and Linux networking code, headers and documentation from streams distribution
and set epoch at 0.  Linux networking code has been migrated to the strxnet, strinet and strsctp
packages.  The purpose for doing this was to allow the Linux networking to build against
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} as well as @cite{Linux STREAMS} and is a preparation for phasing out
LiS and phasing in LfS.

This was an internal alpha test release and was not released publicly.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-1
@subsection Release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.7a-1

This is the initial release of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package for Linux.  This is intended as a
high-performance, production replacement for @cite{Linux STREAMS (LiS)}.  @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} has
the following features:

@itemize --
@item optimized for Linux kernels.
@item prepared for mainstream Linux kernel adoption.
@item lindented and follows kernel coding practices.
@item compatibility modes for AIX, HPUX, OSF, Solaris, UnixWare, SVR 4.2 and LiS.
@item supports all major SVR4.2 variants.
@item licensed under GPL with commercial licensing available.
@item supports full SVR 4.2 MP synchronization models.
@item runs at SoftIRQ.
@item provides common SVR 4.2 system tunable parameters and sysctls.
@item provides /proc filesystem access for debugging and performance tuning.
@item provides a full set of common STREAMS modules and drivers.
@item provides full name-streams device and shadow special filesystem support.
@end itemize

This was an internal alpha test release and was not released publicly.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Maturity
@section Maturity
@cindex maturity

The @cite{OpenSS7 Project} adheres to the following release philosophy:

@menu
* Pre-Alpha Releases::		Pre-Alpha release description
* Alpha Releases::		Alpha release description
* Beta Releases::		Beta release description
* Gamma Releases::		Gamma release description
* Production Releases::		Production release description
@end menu

@itemize
@item pre-alpha release
@item alpha release
@item beta release
@item gamma release
@item production release
@end itemize

@node Pre-Alpha Releases
@subsection Pre-Alpha Releases

@dfn{Pre-alpha} releases are releases that have received no testing whatsoever.  Code in the release
is not even known to configure or compile.  The purpose of a pre-alpha release is to make code and
documenation available for insepection only, and to solicit comments on the design approach or other
characteristics of the software package.

@dfn{Pre-alpha} release packages ship containing warnings recommending that the user not even
execute the contained code.

@node Alpha Releases
@subsection Alpha Releases

@dfn{Alpha} release are releases that have received little to no testing, or that have been tested
and contains known bugs or defects that make the package unsuitable even for testing.  The purpose
for an @dfn{alpha} release are the same as for the pre-alpha release, with the additional purpose
that it is an earily release of partially functional code that has problems that an external
developer might be willing to fix themselves and contribute back to the project.

@dfn{Alpha} release packages ship containing warnings that executing the code can crash machines and
might possibly do damage to systems upon which it is executed.

@node Beta Releases
@subsection Beta Releases

@dfn{Beta} releases are releases that have received some testing, but the testing to date is not
exhaustive.  @dfn{Beta} release packages do not ship with known defects.  All known defects are
respolved before distribution; however, as exhaustive testing has not been performed, unknown
defects may exist.  The purpose for a @dfn{beta} release is to provide a baseline for other
organizations to participate in the rigorous testing of the package.

@dfn{Beta} release packages ship containing warnings that the package has not been exhaustively
tested and that the package may cause systems to crash.  Suitability of software in this category
for production use is not advised by the project; however, as always, is at the discretion of the
user of the software.

@node Gamma Releases
@subsection Gamma Releases

@dfn{Gamma} release are releases that have received exhaustive testing within the project, but
external testing has been minimal.  @dfn{Gamma} release packages do not ship with known defects.  As
exhaustive internal testing has been performed, unknown defects should be few.  Please remember that
there is NO WARRANTY on public release packages.

@dfn{Gamma} release packages typically resolve problems in previous @dfn{beta} releases, and might
not have had full regression testing performed.  Suitability of software in this category for
production use is at the discretion of the user of the software.   @dfn{The OpenSS7 Project}
recommends that the complete validation test suites provided with the package be performed and pass
on target systems before considering production use.

@node Production Releases
@subsection Production Releases

@dfn{Production} releases are releases that have received exhaustive testing within the project and
validated on specific distributions and architectures.  @dfn{Production} release packages do not
ship with known defects.  Please remember that there is NO WARRANTY on public release packages.

@dfn{Production} packages ship containig a list of validated distributions and architecutres.
Full regression testing of any maintenance changes is performed.  Suitability of software in this
category for production use on the specified target distributions and architectures is at the
discretion of the user.  It should not be necessary to preform validation tests on the set of
supported target systems before considering production use.


@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Bugs
@section Bugs
@cindex bugs

@menu
* Defect Notices::		Notices of the possibility of defects
* Known Defects::		Known bugs in the package
@end menu

@node Defect Notices
@subsection Defect Notices

@c This is the defect notice for pre-alpha release software
@ignore
@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} has known and unknown defects.  This is a @dfn{pre-alpha} release.  Some
defects might be harmful.  No validation testing whatsoever has been performed by the @cite{OpenSS7
Project} on this software.  The software might not even configure or compile.  The @cite{OpenSS7
Project} recommends that you @b{do not use this software}. Use at your own risk.  Remember that
there is @b{NO WARRANTY}.@footnote{See section @b{NO WARRANTY} under @ref{GNU General Public
License}.}

@b{This software is @i{pre-alpha} software.  As such, it will crash your kernel.  Installation of
the software will irreparably mangle your header files or Linux distribution in such a way as to
make it unusable.  Crashes will lock your system and rebooting the system will not repair the
problem.  You will loose all the data on your system.  Because this software will crash your kernel,
the resulting unstable system can destroy computer hardware or peripherals making them ususable.
You will likely void the warranty on any system on which you run this software.  YOU HAVE BEEN
WARNED.}
@end ignore

@c This is the defect notice for alpha release software
@ignore
@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} has unknown defects.  This is a @dfn{alpha} release.  Some defects could
be harmful.  No validation testing whatsoever has been performed by the @cite{OpenSS7 Project} on
this software.  The software might fail to configure or compile on some systems.  The @cite{OpenSS7
Project} recommends that you @b{do not use this software for purposes other than develoment or
evaluation, and then only with great care}. Use at your own risk.  Remember that there is @b{NO
WARRANTY}.@footnote{See section @b{NO WARRANTY} under @ref{GNU General Public License}.}

@b{This software is @i{alpha} software.  As such, it can likely crash your kernel.  Installation of
the software can irreparably mangle your header files or Linux distribution in such a way as to make
it unusable.  Crashes could lock your system and rebooting the system might not repair the problem.
You can possibly loose all the data on your system.  Because this software can crash your kernel,
the resulting unstable system could destroy computer hardware or peripherals making them ususable.
You could void the warranty on any system on which you run this software.  YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED.}
@end ignore

@c This is the defect notice for beta release software
@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} could contain unknown defects.  This is a @dfn{beta} release.  Some
defects could be harmful.  Validation testing has been performed by the @cite{OpenSS7 Project} on
this software for only a restricted set of systems.  The software might fail to configure or compile
on other systems.  The @cite{OpenSS7 Project} recommends that you @b{do not use this software for
purposes other than validation testing and evaluation, and then only with care}. Use at your own
risk.  Remember that there is @b{NO WARRANTY}.@footnote{See section @b{NO WARRANTY} under @ref{GNU
General Public License}.}

@b{This software is @i{beta} software.  As such, it might crash your kernel.  Installation of the
software might mangle your header files or Linux distribution in such a way as to make it unusable.
Crashes could lock your system and rebooting the system might not repair the problem.  You can
possibly loose all the data on your system.  Because this software might crash your kernel, the
resulting unstable system could possibly destroy computer hardware or peripherals making them
ususable.  You might void the warranty on any system on which you run this software.  YOU HAVE BEEN
WARNED.}

@c This is the defect notice for gammar release software
@ignore
@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} could possibly contain unknown defects.  This is a @dfn{gamma} release.
Some remaining unknown defects could possibly be harmful.  Validation testing has been performed by
the @cite{OpenSS7 Project} on this software for a set of systems and external validation testing has
been performed on other systems.  Nevertheless, the software might still fail to configure or
compile on other systems.  The @cite{OpenSS7 Project} recommends that you @b{validate this software
for your target system with care before using this software}.  Use at your own risk.  Remember that
there is @b{NO WARRANTY}.@footnote{See section @b{NO WARRANTY} under @ref{GNU General Public
License}.}

@b{This software is @i{gamma} software.  As such, it is quite stable but might still crash your
kernel under some conditions.  Installation of the software on a non-validated distribution might
mangle your header files or Linux distribution in such a way as to make it unusable.  Crashes could
possibly lock your system and rebooting the system might not repair the problem.  You can possibly
loose all the data on your system.  Because this software stands a chance of crashing your kernel,
the resulting unstable system could possibly destroy computer hardware or peripherals making them
ususable.  You might void the warranty on any system on which you run this software.  YOU HAVE BEEN
WARNED.}
@end ignore

@c This is the defect notice for production release software
@ignore
@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} could possibly contain unknown defects.  This is a @dfn{production}
release.  Nevertheless, some remaining unknown defects could possibly be harmful.  Validation
testing has been performed by the @cite{OpenSS7 Project} and external entities on this software for
the set of systems listed in the release notes.  Nevertheless, the software might still fail to
configure or compile on other systems.  The @cite{OpenSS7 Project} recommends that you @b{validate
this software for your target system before using this software}.  Use at your own risk.  Remember
that there is @b{NO WARRANTY}.@footnote{See section @b{NO WARRANTY} under @ref{GNU General Public
License}.}

@b{This software is @i{production} software.  As such, it is stable on validated systems but might
still crash your kernel in unique circumstances.  Installation of the software on a non-validated
distribution might mangle your header files or Linux distribution in such a way as to make it
unusable.  Crashes could possibly lock your system and rebooting the system might not repair the
problem.  You can possibly loose all the data on your system.  Because this software stands a chance
of crashing your kernel, the resulting unstable system could possibly destroy computer hardware or
peripherals making them ususable.  You might void the warranty on any system on which you run this
software.  YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED.}
@end ignore

@node Known Defects
@subsection Known Defects
@cindex known bugs
@cindex bugs, known

With the exception of packages not originaly created by the @cite{OpenSS7 Project}, the
@cite{OpenSS7 Project} software does not ship with known bugs in any release stage except
@dfn{pre-alpha}.  @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} had no known bugs at the time of release.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Schedule
@section Schedule
@cindex schedule

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node History
@section History
@cindex history

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

