@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: rpm.texi,v 0.9.2.3 2005/05/11 20:09:54 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/11 20:09:54 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

In addition, the following @command{rpm} options, specific to the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package are available:

@table @command

@item --without compat-svr4
@opindex compat-svr4

Disable source compatibility with SVR 4.2 MP variants.  This option disables the
SVR 4.2 MP compatibility functions that are included in the separate kernel
module @file{streams-svr4compat.o}.  This option defaults to enabled.

@item --without compat-sol8
@opindex compat-sol8

Disable source compatibility with Solaris 8 variants.  This option disables the
Solaris 8 compatibility functions that are included in the separate kernel
module @file{streams-suncompat.o}.  This option defaults to enabled.

@item --without compat-uw7
@opindex compat-uw7

Disable source compatibility with UnixWare 7 variants.  This option disables the
UnixWare 7 compatibility functions that are included in the separate kernel
module @file{streams-uw7compat.o}.  This option defaults to enabled.

@item --without compat-osf
@opindex compat-osf

Disable source compatibility with OSF/1.2 variants.  This option disables the
OSF/1.2 compatibility functions that are included in the separate kernel module
@file{streams-osfcompat.o}.  This option defaults to enabled.

@item --without compat-aix
@opindex compat-aix

Disable source compatibility with AIX 4 variants.  This option disables the AIX
4 compatibility functions that are included in the separate kernel module
@file{streams-aixcompat.o}.  This option defaults to enabled.

@item --without compat-hpux
@opindex compat-hpux

Disable source compatibility with HPUX variants.  This option disables the HPUX
compatibility functions that are included in the separate kernel module
@file{streams-hpuxcompat.o}.  This option defaults to enabled.

@item --without compat-lis
@opindex compat-lis

Disable source compatibility with LiS variants.  This option disables the LiS
compatibility functions that are included in the separate kernel module
@file{streams-liscompat.o}.  This option defaults to enabled.

@item --with module-sth
@itemx --without module-sth
@opindex module-sth

Enable building @file{sth} (stream head) module linked into @file{streams}
object instead built as a separate loadable kernel module.  The default is to
create the module as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --with module-pipemod
@itemx --without module-pipemod
@opindex module-pipemod

Enable building @file{pipemod} module linked into @file{streams} object instead
built as a separate loadable kernel module.  The default is to create the module
as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --with module-connld
@itemx --without module-connld
@opindex module-connld

Enable building @file{connld} module linked into @file{streams} object instead
built as a separate loadable kernel module.  The default is to create the module
as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --with module-sc
@itemx --without module-sc
@opindex module-sc

Enable building @file{sc} module linked into @file{streams} object instead built
as a separate loadable kernel module.  The default is to create the module as a
separate loadable kernel module.

@item --with driver-clone
@itemx --without driver-clone
@opindex driver-clone

Enable building @file{clone} driver linked into @file{streams} object instead
built as a separate loadable kernel module.  The default is to create the driver
as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --with driver-fifo
@itemx --without driver-fifo
@opindex driver-fifo

Enable building @file{fifo} driver linked into @file{streams} object instead
built as a separate loadable kernel module.  The default is to create the driver
as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --with driver-loop
@itemx --without driver-loop
@opindex driver-loop

Enable building @file{loop} driver linked into @file{streams} object instead
built as a separate loadable kernel module.  The default is to create the driver
as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --with driver-sad
@itemx --without driver-sad
@opindex driver-sad

Enable building @file{sad} driver linked into @file{streams} object instead
built as a separate loadable kernel module.  The default is to create the driver
as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --with driver-nsdev
@itemx --without driver-nsdev
@opindex driver-nsdev

Enable building @file{nsdev} driver linked into @file{streams} object instead
built as a separate loadable kernel module.  The default is to create the driver
as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --with driver-echo
@itemx --without driver-echo
@opindex driver-echo

Enable building @file{echo} driver linked into @file{streams} object instead
built as a separate loadable kernel module.  The default is to create the driver
as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --with driver-nuls
@itemx --without driver-nuls
@opindex driver-nuls

Enable building @file{nuls} driver linked into @file{streams} object instead
built as a separate loadable kernel module.  The default is to create the driver
as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --with driver-pipe
@itemx --without driver-pipe
@opindex driver-pipe

Enable building @file{pipe} driver linked into @file{streams} object instead
built as a separate loadable kernel module.  The default is to create the driver
as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --with driver-log
@itemx --without driver-log
@opindex driver-log

Enable building @file{log} driver linked into @file{streams} object instead
built as a separate loadable kernel module.  The default is to create the driver
as a separate loadable kernel module.

@item --with streams-fifos
@itemx --without streams-fifos
@opindex streams-fifos

Enable override of system fifos with STREAMS-based fifos.
The default for this feature is disabled.

@end table

