% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: STREAMS_FAQ.texi,v 0.9.2.13 2008-04-28 12:54:00 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (C) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
% Copyright (C) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:54:00 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================
\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c vim: ft=texinfo nosmartindent nocindent noautoindent tw=120
@c %**start of header
@setfilename STREAMS_FAQ.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Frequently Asked Questions
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
@c %**end of header

@dircategory STREAMS
@direntry
* STREAMS FAQ: (STREAMS FAQ).	STREAMS Frequently Asked Questions
@end direntry

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Frequently Asked Questions

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file provides the @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of the
@cite{@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this guide
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results,
provided the printed document carries copying permission notice identical to
this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this paragraph not being
relevant to the printed guide).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this guide
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this guide into
another language, under the above conditions for modified versions.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Frequently Asked Questions

@ignore
@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@end ignore
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <@uref{http://www.openss7.com/}> @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> @*
All Rights Reserved. @*

@noindent
Published by OpenSS7 Corporation @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
This is texinfo edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
documentation, and is consistent with @value{PACKAGE_NAME} @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}.
This guide was developed under the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7
Project} and was funded in part by
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation}.

@noindent
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this guide
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this guide
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this guide into
another language, under the same conditions as for modified versions.

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@iftex
@headings off
@everyheading @thistitle @| @thisfile @| @thischaptername
@evenheading @thischapter @| @| @thisfile
@oddheading @thistitle @| @| @thischaptername
@everyfooting Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Ed. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} @| @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @thispage
@evenfooting @thispage @| @| Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Ed.  @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@oddfooting @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @| @thispage
@end iftex
@page

@c Manpage index
@defcodeindex mp

@c Concatenate indices
@syncodeindex fn cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@synindex ky cp
@syncodeindex pg cp
@syncodeindex tp cp
@synindex mp cp

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@unnumbered About This Guide
This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of @cite{The
@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Acknowledgements::
* Preface::
* FAQ::
* Copying::
* Glossary::
* Index::

 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Acknowledgements

* Sponsors::			Sponsors
* Contributors::		Contributors

Preface

FAQ

* What is STREAMS?::		STREAMS Description
* Does Linux have STREAMS?::	STREAMS and Linux
* Why STREAMS?::		STREAMS Justification
* Why Fast?::			STREAMS Implementation
* Why Linux?::			STREAMS for Linux
* Why Compatibility?::		STREAMS Compatibility

Copying

* GNU Affero General Public License::	AGPL
* GNU General Public License::		GPL
* GNU Lesser General Public License::	LGPL
* GNU Free Documentation License::	FDL

@end menu

@c Indices
@c 
@c * Concept Index::		Concept Index
@c * Type Index::			Type Index
@c * Function Index::		Function Index
@c * Variable Index::		Variable Index
@c * File Index::			File Index


@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Acknowledgements
@unnumbered Acknowledgements
@cindex credits

@include texi/funding.texi

@unnumberedsec Authors

The authors of the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package include:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
@end multitable

@unnumberedsec Maintainer

The maintainer of the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
@end multitable

Please send bug reports to @email{@value{PACKAGE_BUGREPORT}} using the @file{send-pr} script
included in the package, only after reading the @file{BUGS} file in the release, or @xref{Problem
Reports}.

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@section Document Information
@cindex document information

@subsection Notice
@cindex document notice
@cindex licensing

This package is released and distributed under the @cite{GNU Affero General Public License} (@pxref{GNU
Affero General Public License}).  Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for the
manual pages and some of the documentation (derived from X/Open publications and other sources).
Consult the permission notices contained in the documentation for more information.

This document, is released under the @cite{GNU Free Documentation License} (@pxref{GNU Free
Documentation License}) with no sections invariant.

@subsection Abstract
@cindex document abstract

This document provides @cite{@value{MANUAL_TYPE}} for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

@subsection Objective
@cindex document objective

The objective of this document is to provide a guide for the @dfn{STREAMS} programmer when
developing @dfn{STREAMS} modules, drivers and application programs for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

This guide provides information to developers on the use of the @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism at user and
kernel levels.

@dfn{STREAMS} was incorporated in UNIX System V Release 3 to augment the character input/output
(I/O) mechanism and to support development of communication services.

@dfn{STREAMS} provides developers with integral functions, a set of utility routines, and facilities
that expedite software design and implementation.

@subsection Intent
@cindex document intent

The intent of this document is to act as an introductory guide to the @dfn{STREAMS} programmer.  It
is intended to be read alone and is not intended to replace or supplement the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} manual pages.  For a reference for writing code, the manual pages
(see @manref{STREAMS(9)}) provide a better reference to the programmer.
Although this describes the features of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package,
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any software,
system or feature listed herein.

@subsection Audience
@cindex document audience

This document is intended for a highly technical audience.  The reader should already be familiar
with @cite{Linux} kernel programming, the @cite{Linux} file system, character devices, driver input
and output, interrupts, software interrupt handling, scheduling, process contexts, multiprocessor
locks, etc.

The guide is intended for network and systems programmers, who use the @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism at
user and kernel levels for @cite{Linux} and @cite{UNIX} system communication services.

Readers of the guide are expected to possess prior knowledge of the @cite{Linux} and @cite{UNIX}
system, programming, networking, and data communication.

@subsection Revisions
@cindex document revisions

Take care that you are working with a current version of this document: you will not be notified of
updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current version, contact the
@uref{mailto:bidulock@@openss7.org,Author}, or check @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,The OpenSS7
Project} website for a current version.

A current version of this document is normally distributed with the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package.

@subsubsection Version Control

@smallexample

$Log: STREAMS_FAQ.texi,v $
Revision 0.9.2.13  2008-04-28 12:54:00  brian
- update file headers for release

Revision 0.9.2.12  2007/12/15 20:19:44  brian
- updates

Revision 0.9.2.11  2007/08/12 06:44:33  brian
- updated licenses in manuals

Revision 0.9.2.10  2007/06/22 00:18:44  brian
- mostly documentation updates for release, some netconfig workaround

Revision 0.9.2.9  2007/03/17 08:31:56  brian
- corrected formatting problems

Revision 0.9.2.8  2007/02/28 06:30:55  brian
- updates and corrections, #ifdef instead of #if

Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/09/18 01:06:59  brian
- updated manuals and release texi docs

Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/08/28 10:47:05  brian
- correction

Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/08/27 12:26:58  brian
- finalizing auto release files

Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/08/26 09:18:25  brian
- better release file generation

Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/08/22 12:36:50  brian
- udpates to documentation, tweaks to Stream head

Revision 0.9.2.2  2005/11/20 22:20:19  brian
- still working up documentation

Revision 0.9.2.1  2005/11/14 11:20:03  brian
- working up manual

Revision 0.9.2.43  2005/11/14 04:43:55  brian
- updating manual

Revision 0.9.2.42  2005/11/13 23:04:01  brian
- starting cleanup of SPG

Revision 0.9.2.41  2005/10/07 09:34:00  brian
- more testing and corrections

Revision 0.9.2.40  2005/09/26 10:56:41  brian
- doc updates

Revision 0.9.2.39  2005/09/20 12:53:07  brian
- more doc updates, corrected QFULL handling

Revision 0.9.2.38  2005/09/18 07:38:35  brian
- more doc updates

Revision 0.9.2.37  2005/09/17 11:52:08  brian
- documentation updates

Revision 0.9.2.36  2005/09/17 08:20:57  brian
- more doc updates

Revision 0.9.2.35  2005/09/17 00:46:12  brian
- document updates

Revision 0.9.2.34  2005/09/16 03:06:02  brian
- added glossary

Revision 0.9.2.33  2005/09/15 13:02:52  brian
- added new graphics and updates

@end smallexample

@subsubsection ISO 9000 Compliance

Only the @TeX{}, texinfo, or roff source for this document is controlled.  An opaque (printed,
postscript or portable document format) version of this document is an @strong{UNCONTROLLED
VERSION}.

@subsection Disclaimer
@cindex document disclaimer

@noindent
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all
implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title;
that the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} be liable for any direct, indirect, special or
consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with
any use of this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.

@noindent
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any
reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies,
utilization of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the
design of any techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  @cite{OpenSS7
Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@subsubsection U.S. Government Restricted Rights

If you are licensing this Software on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it is
classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to
the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government is
acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights customarily provided to
non-Government users).  If the Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other
than DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights in the
Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any
successor regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to
the FAR (or any successor regulations).

@node FAQ
@chapter FAQ
@cindex FAQ
@menu
* What is STREAMS?::			STREAMS Description
* Does Linux have STREAMS?::		STREAMS and Linux
* Why STREAMS?::			STREAMS Justification
* Why Fast?::				STREAMS Implementation
* Why Linux?::				STREAMS for Linux
* Why Compatibility?::			STREAMS Compatibility
@end menu

@node What is STREAMS?
@section What is STREAMS?

@dfn{STREAMS} is a facility first presented in a paper by Dennis M. Ritchie in
1984,@footnote{@cite{A Stream Input-Output System, AT&T Bell Laboratories Technical Journal 63, No.
8 Part 2 (October, 1984), pp.  1897-1910.}} originally implemented on 4.1BSD and later part of
@cite{Bell Laboratories Eighth Edition UNIX}, incorporated into
@cite{UNIX System V Release 3.0}
@cindex UNIX System V Release 3.0
and enhanced in
@cite{UNIX System V Release 4}
@cindex UNIX System V Release 4
and
@cite{UNIX System V Release 4.2}.
@cindex UNIX System V Release 4.2
@dfn{STREAMS} was used in @cite{SVR4} for terminal input/output, pseudo-terminals, pipes, named
pipes (FIFOs), interprocess communication and networking.  Since its release in @cite{System V
Release 4}, @dfn{STREAMS} has been implemented across a wide range of @cite{UNIX}, @cite{UNIX}-like,
and @cite{UNIX}-based systems, making its implementation and use an @i{ipso facto} standard.

@dfn{STREAMS} is a facility that allows for a reconfigurable full duplex communications path,
@dfn{Stream}, between a user process and a driver in the kernel.  Kernel protocol modules can be
pushed onto and popped from the @dfn{Stream} between the user process and driver.  The @dfn{Stream}
can be reconfigured in this way by a user process.  The user process, neighbouring protocol modules
and the driver communicate with each other using a message passing scheme closely related to
@dfn{MOM (Message Oriented Middleware)}.  This permits a loose coupling between protocol modules,
drivers and user processes, allowing a third-party and loadable kernel module approach to be taken
toward the provisioning of protocol modules on platforms supporting @dfn{STREAMS}.

On @cite{UNIX System V Relase 4.2},
@cindex UNIX System V Release 4.2
@dfn{STREAMS} was used for terminal input-output, pipes, FIFOs (named pipes), and network
communications.  Modern @cite{UNIX}, @cite{UNIX}-like and @cite{UNIX}-based systems providing
@dfn{STREAMS} normally support some degree of network communications using @dfn{STREAMS}; however,
many do not support @dfn{STREAMS}-based pipe and FIFOs@footnote{For example, AIX.} or terminal
input-output.@footnote{For example, HP-UX}.


@node Does Linux have STREAMS?
@section Does Linux have STREAMS?
@cindex Does Linux have STREAMS?

No, @b{Linux} does not have @dfn{STREAMS} as part of the kernel (yet).  That is rather peculiar,
particularly since @b{Linux} normally follows SVR4 first and 4BSD second.  (Otherwise, it would just
be another BSD.)

Two open source @dfn{STREAMS} implementations are available for @b{Linux}: @cite{Linux STREAMS
(LiS)} and @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

@subsection Linux STREAMS (LiS)
@cindex Linux STREAMS (LiS)

@cite{Linux STREAMS (LiS)} is a @dfn{STREAMS} implementation for @b{Linux} originally released and
maintained by @uref{http://www.gcom.com/,GCOM Inc.}, and recently re-released under @dfn{GPL} by
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,The OpenSS7 Project}.

A number of attempts were made to move the @cite{Linux STREAMS (LiS)} project into the @b{Linux}
kernel, however, each attempt crashed and burned in a shower of flames from BSD advocates on LKML.
Arguments against do not appear to be based on valid technical argument.  This is discussed more in
the next section (@pxref{Why STREAMS?}).

Nevertheless, the @cite{Linux STREAMS (LiS)} does not conform to @b{Linux} kernel coding standards
and practises and could likely be rejected out of hand for mainline support on that basis.  Also,
@cite{Linux STREAMS (LiS)} also has a number of problems with conformance and recent releases have
bugs and races that make its production use questionable.@footnote{One of the major shortcomings of
@cite{LiS} in the author's opinion is that, because the code was intendended on being portable, it
is rather obfuscated and difficult to maintain or repair.}

Versions of @cite{LiS} are available that supports 2.2, 2.4 and 2.6 @b{Linux} kernels, however,
recent releases only support 2.4 and 2.6 kernels.

@subsection Linux Fast-STREAMS (LfS)
@cindex Linux Fast-STREAMS (LfS)

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is a new implementation of @dfn{STREAMS} for @b{Linux} developed under
the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7 Project} and with development principally funded by
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation}.  This is the implementation that corresponds to
this manual.

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} was developed as a production replacement for @cite{LiS} that was both
maintainable and suitable for mainline adoption.  The principal behind the implementation was that
portability was secondary to performance, conformance, maintainability and suitability for mainline
adoption.

@subsection STREAMS for FreeBSD
@cindex FreeBSD

At one point an attempt was made to provide a @dfn{STREAMS} implementation for @cite{FreeBSD},
however, it appears that it never matured.
If there is sufficient interest, it would be possible to port @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} to
@cite{FreeBSD} and other BSD variants.

@subsection OpenSTREAMS?
@cindex OpenSTREAMS

Perhaps we should have called @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} @b{OpenSTREAMS}; however, as there
already exists suitable @dfn{STREAMS} packages for all @cite{UNIX} and @cite{UNIX}-based systems
(with the possible exception of BSD variants) and even other operating systems (many RTOS also
support @dfn{STREAMS}) conformance, compatibility, maintainability and mainline adoption for
@b{Linux} have taken a higher priority than portability.


@node Why STREAMS?
@section Why STREAMS?
@cindex Why STREAMS?

@menu
* STREAMS versus Sockets::	STREAMS and Sockets
* STREAMS Benefits::		STREAMS Benefits
* STREAMS Criticism::		STREAMS Criticism
* STREAMS Realities::		STREAMS Realities
@end menu

So, "Why @dfn{STREAMS}" you might ask.

The @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7 Project} selected @dfn{STREAMS} as the basis for its
telecommunications protocol and networking stacks some years ago because of its ability to encourage
reuse of protocol components and its flexibility in configuring protocol stacks.  In the
telecommunications industry, many protocols exists and tend to be collected into profiles that mix
and match protocol layers.  @dfn{STREAMS} has an innate ability to provide support for flexible
configuration of protocol layers.

Also, telecommunications platforms must work with media streams as well as signalling streams.
Because of its terminal subsystem background, @dfn{STREAMS} is far more suitable when applied to
media streams that consist of steady flows of fixed size (small) message blocks.  Other mechanisms
within the @b{Linux} kernel are either  unsuitable to such an approach (e.g, @samp{skbuff}s) or 
too application specific (e.g, @dfn{ALS}).

The subsections that follow delve into this question deeper.

@node STREAMS versus Sockets
@subsection STREAMS versus Sockets
@cindex STREAMS versus Sockets

A basic question that is sometimes asked is: "Why use @dfn{STREAMS} when you can just use
@b{Linux}'s NET4 BSD Sockets instead?"

The answer to this question is that @dfn{STREAMS} provides capabilities for specialized protocols
and streamed input/output requirements (such as media) that are not amenable to the sockets
interface or queue mechanisms.

Two examples are SS7 (Signalling System Number 7) which is a specialized Telecommunications protocol
used be switching equipment in the Public Switched Telephone Network; and transferring and
manipulating voice channels associated with telephone call or other telecommunications services.
These are the reasons why the @url{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7 Project}
@cindex OpenSS7 Project
originally embarked on using @dfn{STREAMS}.  You will find that a large number of @cite{SS7} stack
vendors also deliver @cite{UNIX} and even @cite{RTOS} SS7 products on @dfn{STREAMS}.

Although the BSD Sockets framework was established to permit arbitrary protocols to be implemented
within the framework, it is seldom that BSD Sockets is actually used in this fashion.  One reason
for this is the tight coupling (function call interface) between layers in BSD sockets.  @b{Linux}
has an even tighter coupling between protocol layers and removes entire layers from the BSD model.

@quotation
The @cite{4.2BSD} version of @cite{UNIX} introduced @dfn{sockets}
@cindex sockets
[Leffler, McKusick, Karels,
Quaterman 1988].  The operating system provided an infrastructure in which network protocols could
be implemented.  It provided memory management facilities, a set of system calls for accessing
network software, an object-oriented framework for the network protocols themselves, and a
formalized device driver interface.  The @dfn{sockets}
@cindex sockets
mechanism was primarily used to implement the
TCP/IP
@cindex TCP/IP
protocols for the
ARPA
@cindex ARPANET
Internet.
The device driver interface made it possible for the operating system to support a wide range of
network controllers.  @dfn{sockets}
@cindex sockets
are widely used for the implementation of TCP/IP
@cindex TCP/IP
on @cite{UNIX} systems and have been ported to many implementations of @cite{UNIX System V}.
Although it is possible to implement other protocols within the @dfn{sockets} mechanism, it was not
often done.

An alternative infrastructure for providing network protocols is @dfn{STREAMS}, originally designed
by Dennis Ritchie [Ritchie 1984a] and first released in @cite{UNIX System V Release 3.0}.
@dfn{STREAMS} provides an environment in which communications protocols can be developed.  It
consists of a set of system calls, kernel functions and data structures.  With this environment it
is easier to write modular and reusable code.  The code is also simpler because many of the support
functions the programmer needs are provided by the @dfn{STREAMS} infrastructure.
@end quotation

Have you ever seen the @dfn{RTP (Real-Time Transport Protocol, RFC 1889)} implemented under a
Socket?  Why not?  Is not the sockets interface so flexible as to permit such protocols to be
implemented?

There are several reasons that @dfn{BSD Sockets} have not been used for other protocol development:

@itemize

@item  Although @dfn{BSD Sockets} provides a framework for protocol development, it does not provide
many utility functions for working with arbitrary protocols.  Most of the utilities are DARPA
ARPANET specific.@footnote{This should not be suprising as the 4BSD releases were developed for
DARPA.}

@item Protocol to protocol module interfaces are poorly standardized for the @dfn{BSD Sockets} system,
whereas, protocol to protocol module service interfaces are well defined under OSI for
@dfn{STREAMS}.  (@b{Linux} discards the protocol to protocol interface anyway.)

@item The @dfn{BSD Sockets} interface can easily be applied over @dfn{STREAMS} transport protocol
modules; however, the reverse is not true: the @dfn{STREAMS} interface cannot easily be provided
over the @dfn{BSD Sockets} protocol modules.@footnote{A case in point is the iBCS.
@cindex iBCS
@cindex Intel Binary Compatibility Suite
You will see in the iBCS
@cindex iBCS
@cindex Intel Binary Compatibility Suite
that, although a basic XTI over Sockets implementation can be provided, none of the @dfn{STREAMS}
facilities can be supported.  In constrast the @dfn{STREAMS} INET driver that performs XTI over
Sockets with in the @dfn{STREAMS} framework is easily implemented as a single device driver and
provides both @cite{iBCS}
@cindex iBCS
@cindex Intel Binary Compatibility Suite
and @dfn{STREAMS} capabilities.}

@item Support in the @dfn{BSD Sockets} model for dynamically loaded protocol (kernel) modules and
administrative reconfiguration of protocols and interfaces for new protocols are poorly
supported.@footnote{Or not supported in a standardized way.  @dfn{STREAMS} use of standardized
interfaces and facilities permits portability of a module between operating systems with ease.}

@item The @dfn{BSD Sockets} model has almost no support for banded or priority message queues within the
model and no systemic approach to flow control.

@item The @b{Linux} implementation of @dfn{BSD Sockets} discards much of the general purpose protocol
framework, presumably in the pursuit of speed.

@end itemize

BSD sockets consists of a socket that interfaces with the user using file system and socket
semantics, a protocol control block that represents the upper-most protocol, a socket to protocol
interface, additional protocol control blocks representing lower protocol components, a protocol to
protocol interface, a device interface abstraction, and a protocol to device interface.

@b{Linux} discards the protocol control block, socket to protocol interface, protocol to protocol
interface, and protocol to device interface.

One of the major ramifications of @b{Linux} discarding the protocol to protocol interface is that it
is very difficult to implement layered or tunnelled protocols in the @b{Linux} kernel.@footnote{That
is, even more difficult than on a BSD system.}  Layered protocols that run, say, over UDP, such as
@samp{econet}, must internally use the socket interface to a UDP datagram socket to layer the
@samp{econet} protocol over UDP.  Under @dfn{STREAMS} it is much easier to either push @samp{econet}
as a module over the UDP transport provider stream, or to @ioctlref{I_LINK} transport provider
streams under an @samp{econet} multiplexing driver.

In commenting on the relative performance of @dfn{STREAMS} and @dfn{Sockets}, Mitchel Waite had
this to say:

@quotation
Sockets are like pipes with more power.  They are bidirectional and may cross network or other
machine boundaries.  In addition, sockets allow limited control information as well as data.

Streams are more general still, with extensive control information passing capabilities.

On most @cite{UNIX} systems, messages (if available) have the lowest overhead and highest
bandwidth, with pipes following close behind.  Because they support complex networking facilities,
sockets are probably less efficient than streams, but because they rarely appear on the same machine
as streams, the question is somewhat academic.  They certainly have much lower bandwidth than pipes
or messages.@footnote{@cite{UNIX Papers, for UNIX Developers and Power Users, (Waite, 1987) pp. 358-359}}
@end quotation

With @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} it will be very possible to compare the performance of @dfn{STREAMS}
in comparison to @dfn{Sockets}.  It will also be possible to compare the performance of traditional
@b{Linux} pipes and FIFOs with @dfn{STREAMS}-based pipes and FIFOs.@footnote{In fact, such a
performance comparison has been performed using @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.  On the test system, a
@dfn{STREAMS}-based pipe delivered 80% of the write/read throughput performance experienced by
@b{Linux} native pipes.}

@node STREAMS Benefits
@subsection STREAMS Benefits
@cindex benefits, STREAMS
@cindex STREAMS, benefits

@dfn{STREAMS} provides a flexible, portable, and reusable set of tools for development of @b{Linux}
system communication services.  @dfn{STREAMS} allows an easy creation of modules that offer standard
data communications services and the ability to manipulate those modules on a @dfn{Stream}.  From
user level, modules can be dynamically selected and interconnected; kernel programming, assembly,
and link editing are not required to create the interconnection.

@dfn{STREAMS} also greatly simplifies the user interface for languages that have complex input and
output requirements.

@subsection Standardized Service Interfaces
@cindex Standardized Service Interfaces

@dfn{STREAMS} simplifies the creation of modules that present a service interface to any
neighbouring application program, module, or device driver.  A service interface is defined at the
boundary between two neighbours.  In @dfn{STREAMS}, a @i{service interface} is a set of messages and
the rules that allow passage of these messages across the boundary.  A module that implements a
service interface will receive a message from a neighbour and respond with an appropriate action
(for example, send back a request to retransmit) based on the specific message received and the
preceding sequence of messages.

In general, any two modules can be connected anywhere in a @dfn{Stream}.  However, rational sequences are
generally constructed by connecting modules with compatible protocol service interfaces.  For
example, a module that implements an @dfn{SS7 MTP2 Signalling Link} protocol layer, as shown in
@figref{13}, presents a protocol service interface at its input and output sides.  In this case,
other modules should only be connected to the input and output side if they have the compatible
@dfn{SS7 Signalling Link} service interface.

@subsection Manipulating Modules
@cindex Manipulating Modules

@dfn{STREAMS} provides the ability to manipulate modules from user level, to interchange modules
with common service interfaces, and to change the service interface to a @dfn{STREAMS} user
process.  These capabilities yield further benefits when implementing networking services and
protocols, including:

@itemize
@item User level programs can be independent of underlying protocols and physical communications
media.
@item Network architectures and higher level protocols can be independent of underlying protocols,
drivers, and physical communications media.
@item Higher level services can be created by selecting and connecting lower level services and
protocols.
@end itemize

@subsubsection Protocol Portability

@figref{203} shows how the same @dfn{SS7 Signalling Link} protocol module can be used with different
drivers on different machines by implementing compatible service interfaces.  The @dfn{SS7
Signalling Link} protocol module interfaces are @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)} and
@cite{High-Level Data Link Control (HDLC)}.

@figuresized{SPG_fig53,203,Protocol Module Portability,4in}

This arrangements permits the @cite{SS7 Signalling Link} module to be implemented and conformance
tested once, yet applied to many @cite{HDLC} drivers.  Each @cite{HDLC} driver can be specific to
the hardware that it supports without affecting reuse of the upper layer modules.

For the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7} SS7 stacks, this permits the same @cite{SS7
Signalling Link} module to be used and only a hardware specific @cite{HDLC} driver to be written for
each hardware interface device.  It also allows the same @cite{SS7 Signalling Link} module to be
used with non-@dfn{HDLC} links (such as UDP-based pseudo links).

@subsubsection Protocol Substitution

Alternate protocol modules (and device drivers) can be exchanged on the same machine if they are
implemented to an equivalent service interface.

@figref{206} illustrates how @dfn{STREAMS} can substitute upper layer protocol modules to implement
a different protocol stack over the same @dfn{HDLC} driver.  As each module and driver support the
same service interface at each level, it is conceivable that the resulting modules could be
recombined to support, for example, @cite{SS7 MTP} over an @cite{ISDN LAPB} channel.@footnote{SS7
MTP over ISDN LAPB was originally defined under ISDN as an E-Channel.}

@figuresized{SPG_fig56,206,Protocol Substitution,4in}

@subsubsection Protocol Migration

@figref{204} illustrates how @dfn{STREAMS} can move functions between kernel software and front end
firmware.  A common downstream service interface allows the transport protocol module to be
independent of the number or type of modules below.  The same transport module will connect without
modification to either an @dfn{SS7 Signalling Link} module or @dfn{SS7 Signalling Link} driver that
has the same service interface.

By shifting functions between software and firmware, you can produce cost-effective, functionally
equivalent systems over a wide range of configurations.  They can rapidly incorporate technological
advances.  The same transport protocol module can be used on a lower capacity machine, where
economics may preclude the use of front-end hardware, and also on a larger scale system where a
front-end is economically justified.

@figuresized{SPG_fig54,204,Protocol Migration,4in}

The @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,OpenSS7} @cite{SS7 Protocol Stack} uses this capability of
@dfn{STREAMS} to provide for hardware that contains varying levels of support for @dfn{SS7-HDLC} or
@dfn{SS7 Signalling Data Terminal} functions (such as @dfn{AERM} and @dfn{SUERM} capabilities).
The implementation goes one layer lower than illustrated in @figref{204}, and provides an @dfn{HDLC}
module that runs over a bare bearer channel (i.e, accepts a bit-stream at its lower service
interface).  This supports any channel interface hardware that can be placed in a raw mode making
initial hardware driver support easier, following the left side of @figref{204}.  Hardware that
supports @dfn{HDLC} functions, @dfn{Signalling Data Terminal} functions or even @dfn{Signalling
Link} functions in firmware can use an integrated driver as illustrated on the right side of
@figref{204}.

Although, in practise, the performance cost of breaking a protocol layer into independent protocol
modules within @dfn{STREAMS} is low, a firmware implementation as that shown on the right performs
somewhat better, but typically at a higher monetary cost.  @dfn{STREAMS} provides a wide range of
scalable cost/performance options to the system designer in this regard.

@subsubsection Module Reusability

@figref{205} shows the same canonical module (for example, one that provide delete and kill
processing on character strings) reused in two different @dfn{Streams}.  This module would typically
be implemented as a filter, with no downstream service interface.  In both cases, a @dfn{tty}
interface is presented to the @dfn{Stream}'s user process since the module is nearest the
@dfn{Stream head}.

@figuresized{SPG_fig55,205,Module Reusability,4in}

@node STREAMS Criticism
@subsection STREAMS Criticism
@cindex STREAMS Criticism

Following are some excerpts from Dennis M. Ritchie's original (1984) Bell Technical Journal paper on
the stream I/O system.  These excerpts are the limitations of the system as were perceived by Dennis
M. Ritchie at the time.  Strangely enough, although every limitation listed by Dennis was fixed even
as early as @cite{UNIX System V Release 3.0} and even in the @cite{UNIX Eighth Edition}, some BSD
advocates will use these limitations as a reason for not using @dfn{STREAMS} in BSD.  Also, note
that BSD'ers will also say that @dfn{STREAMS} was a @cite{UNIX Eighth Edition} (Bell Laboratories
Research version of UNIX) thing; however, Dennis' paper clearly states that the base system for the
initial @cite{Stream Input-Output System} was @cite{4.1BSD}.  Also note that @cite{4.1BSD} already
had @dfn{sockets} and that some of Ritchie's work was taken from @dfn{sockets}.  It took until
@cite{4.2BSD} for @cite{BBN} to add the @dfn{DARPANET} protocol stack to sockets.

Perhaps it is not so surprising why @cite{BSD}'ers hark back to Ritchie's original problem list for
@dfn{STREAMS}: because it was at that point that @cite{BSD} decided to not follow the @dfn{STREAMS} work
too closely, except as regards IPC, and @cite{UNIX} domain mechanisms.  It is likely that @cite{BSD} would have
used @dfn{STREAMS}, however, it was included in @cite{UNIX System V Release 3.0} and this was the
first release that @cite{AT&T} was allowed to aggressively market under the terms of the
@dfn{Modified Judgement}.

@quotation
Although the new organization performs well, it has several peculiarities and limitations.  Some of
them seem inherent, some are fixable, and some are the subject of current work.

I/O control calls turn into messages that require answers before a result can be returned to the
user.  Sometimes the message ultimately goes to another user-level process that may reply tardily or
never.  The stream is write-locked until the reply returns, in order to eliminate the need to
determine which process gets which reply.  A timeout breaks the lock, so there is an unjustified
error return if a reply is late, and a long lockup period if one is lost.  The problem can be
ameliorated by working harder on it, but it typifies the difficulties that turn up when direct calls
are replaced by message-passing schemes.
@end quotation

This problem was never really fixed I suppose because most @dfn{STREAMS} specifications say that
only one @command{ioctl} can be outstanding for a given stream.  Nevertheless, an @command{ioctl}
identifier was added to the @msg{M_IOCTL}
message that uniquely identifies the @command{ioctl}; but, a timer is still used.  With
the @ioctlref{I_STR}
@command{ioctl}, however, the caller has control over the duration of the timeout.
Strange, but this unfixed problem is the one that seldom gets raised as a reason for not using
@dfn{STREAMS}.

@quotation
Several oddities appear because time spent in server routines cannot be assigned to any particular
user or process.  It is impossible, for example, for devices to support privileged @command{ioctl}
calls, because the device has no idea who generated the message.  Accounting and scheduling becomes
less accurate; a short census of several systems showed that between 4 and 8 per cent of non-idle
CPU time was being spent in server routines.  Finally, the anonimity for server processing most
certainly makes it more difficult to measure the performance of the new I/O system.
@end quotation

This problem with privileged @command{ioctl} calls was easily fixed by adding the credentials of the
caller to the @msg{M_IOCTL}
message.
This limitation is also not mentioned by @dfn{STREAMS} critics.

@quotation
In its current form the stream I/O system is purely data-driven.  That is, data is presented by a
user's @command{write} call, and passes through to the device; conversely, data appears unbidden from
a device an passes to the top level, where it is picked up by @command{read} calls.  Wherever
possible flow control throttles down fast generators of data, but nowhere except at the consumer end
of a stream is there knowledge for precisely how much data is desired.  Consider a command to execute
possibly interactive program on another machine connected to a stream.  The simplest such common
sets up the connection and invokes the remote program, and then copies characters from its own
standard input to the stream, and from the stream to its standard output.  The scheme is adequate in
practise, but breaks when the user types more than the remote program expects.  For example, if the
remote program reads no input at all, any typed-ahead characters are sent to the remote system and
lost.  This demonstrates a problem, but I know of no solution inside the stream I/O mechanism
itself; other ideas will have to be applied.
@end quotation

Back-enabling of queues and the use of the @msg{M_READ}
message makes it possible for the consumer end of the stream to signal its desire for data
downstream.
Also, in the example that Ritchie gives here, the network protocol (TCP) is of no help either.
This limitation is also not mentioned by @dfn{STREAMS} critics.

@quotation
Streams are linear connections; by themselves, they support no notion of multiplexing, fan-in or
fan-out.  Except at the ends of a stream, each invocation of a module has a unique "next" and
"previous" module.  Two locally-important applications of streams testify to the importance of
multiplexing: Blit terminal connections, where the multiplexing is done well, though at some
performance costs, but a user program, and remote execution of commands over a network, where it is
desired, but not now easy, to separate the standard output from error output.  It seems likely that
a general multiplexing mechanism could help in both cases, but again, I do not yet know how to
design it.
@end quotation

This was, of course, solved, even in @cite{UNIX System V Release 3.0} with the
@streamio{I_LINK},
@streamio{I_PLINK},
@streamio{I_UNLINK}
and
@streamio{I_PUNLINK}
@dfn{STREAMS} @command{ioctl} commands and the concept of a multiplexing pseudo-device driver.
This fixed limitation you will see mentioned below.

The following excerpt shows how @cite{BSD}'ers like to misinterpret the situation:

@quotation
Original work on the flexible configuration of IPC processing modules was done at Bell Laboratories
in @cite{UNIX Eigth Edition} [Presotto & Richie, 1985].  This @i{stream I/O system} was based on
@cite{UNIX}
character I/O system.  It allowed a user process to open a raw terminal port and then to insert
appropriate kernel-processing modules, such as one to do normal terminal line editing.  Modules to
process network protocols also could be inserted.  Stacking a terminal-processing module on top of a
network-processing module allowed flexible and efficient implementation of @i{network virtual
terminals} within the kernel.  A problem with streams modules, however, is that they are inherently
linear in nature, and thus they do not adequately handle the fan-in and fan-out associated with
multiplexing in datagram-based networks; such multiplexing is done in device drivers, below the
modules proper.  The Eighth Edition stream I/O system was adopted in System V, Release 3 as the
STREAMS system.
@footnote{@cite{The Design and Implementation of the 4.4BSD Operating System, McKusick, et. al.,
(Addison-Wesley, 1996) pp. 15-16}}
@end quotation

Well, the @cite{UNIX Eighth Edition} @dfn{Stream Input-Output System} may have been included in
@cite{UNIX System V Release 3.0} as stated, however, Ritchie's @dfn{Stream Input-Output System} was
implemented on @cite{4.1BSD} for the October 1984 paper.

@quotation
The design of the networking facilities for 4.2BSD took a different approach, based on the
@dfn{socket} interface and a flexible multilayer network architecture.  This design allows a single
system to support multiple sets of networking protocols with stream datagram, and other types of
access.  Protocol modules may deal with multiplexing of data from different connection onto a single
transport medium, as well as with de-multiplexing of data for different protocols and connection
received from each network device.  The 4.4BSD release made small extensions to the socket interface
to allow the implementation of the @cite{ISO} networking protocols.
@footnote{@cite{The Design and Implementation of the 4.4BSD Operating System, McKusick, et. al.,
(Addison-Wesley, 1996) pp. 15-16}}
@end quotation

@node STREAMS Realities
@subsection STREAMS Realities
@cindex STREAMS Realities

The realities of @dfn{STREAMS} are as follows:

@itemize

@item @dfn{STREAMS} is implemented on every major ``Big Iron'' @cite{UNIX}.

Even Sun Microsystems chose to abandon @dfn{BSD Sockets} as an internal kernel networking implementation
and moved to the @cite{UNIX System V Release 4} @dfn{STREAMS} subsystem instead.@footnote{BSD'er
will tell you that Sun Microsystems just made a bad decision.} @dfn{STREAMS} is implemented (to list
a few) in 
@cite{AIX 5L Version 5.1 PSE},
@cindex AIX
@cite{HP-UX 11.0i v2 STREAMS/UX},
@cindex HP-UX
@cite{OSF/1 1.2/Digital UNIX},
@cindex OSF/1
@cindex Digital UNIX
@cite{UnixWare 7.1.3 (OpenUnix 8)},
@cindex UnixWare
@cindex OpenUnix
@cite{Solaris 9/SunOS 5.9},
@cindex Solaris
@cindex SunOS
@cite{Super-UX},
@cindex Super-UX
@cite{UXP/V}
@cindex UXP/V
and
@cite{MacOS OT}.
@cindex MacOS

@item @dfn{STREAMS} is implemented on many Real-Time Operating Systems (RTOS) based on @cite{UNIX}.

Examples include @cite{WindRiver}, @cite{PSOS}, @cite{VxWorks}, etc.

@item @dfn{STREAMS} implementations are widely standardized on the @cite{UNIX System V Release 4.2}
specifications.

@item @dfn{STREAMS} provides standardized (POSIX, OpenGroup, SVID) Transport Library Interface to
communications networking suites.

@item @dfn{STREAMS} has many portable implementations.

@end itemize

@node Why Fast?
@section Why Fast?
@cindex Why Fast?

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} includes the word @cite{fast} in the name because of the original roots of
the @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} development effort.  @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} was originally developed by
the @url{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7 Project} as a production replacement for the
@cite{Linux STREAMS (LiS)}
@cindex Linux STREAMS (LiS)
package previously available from @url{http://www.gcom.com/, GCOM}.
@cindex GCOM
One of the reasons for contemplating a replacement for
@cite{Linux STREAMS (LiS)}
@cindex Linux STREAMS (LiS)
was the dismal performance provided by
@cite{Linux STREAMS (LiS)}.
@cindex Linux STREAMS (LiS)
Other reasons included:
@itemize

@item Mainline Adoption instead of Portability

@cite{LiS} attempts to maintain portability across a number of operating systems.  The goals of
portability and mainline adoption are usually at cross-purposes.  @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} proposes
mainline adoption in contrast to portability.  Many @dfn{STREAMS} implementations are available for
other operating systems.

@item Production Grade

@cite{LiS} attempts to always provide debugging facilities@footnote{In fact, these debugging
facilities always point at the driver or module writer when a bug is encountered in LiS itself!} and
does not trust the driver or module writer.  This leads to poor performance and in many cases the
propagation of bugs to the field by failing to panic the kernel.  @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} aims at a
production grade environment that implicitly trusts the driver or module while providing optional
debugging facilities (both compile-time options as well as run-time options).

@item SVR 4.2 MP Compatibility
@cindex SVR 4.2 MP

@cite{LiS} only provides @cite{SVR 4} uniprocessor capabilities.  @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides
@cite{SVR 4.2 MP}
@cindex SVR 4.2 MP
capabilities.

@item Portability

@cite{LiS} forces ported drivers and modules from other implementations to use the @cite{LiS} DDI
and configuration mechanisms.  @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides compatibility functions for all
major implementations of @dfn{STREAMS} as well as providing a rich DDI based on @cite{SVR 4.2 MP},
@cindex SVR 4.2 MP
@cite{Solaris}, and other implementations.

@item Bug Circumvention

@cite{LiS} implementation approach has resulted in @cite{LiS} masking its own internal bugs while
pointing at the third-party module or driver (with log statements) whenever it fails to mask its own
bugs.  In the process @cite{LiS} masks bugs even in the module or driver permitting defects to
propagate to the field.  @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} uses industry standard programming by
assertions approaches in its implementation avoiding these difficulties.

@item New Implementation

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is a completely new implementation of @dfn{STREAMS} independent from
@cite{LiS} and not derived from @cite{LiS}.  @cite{LiS} is a collection of software available under
various licenses with little or no commercial licensing alternatives available.
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is released in entirety under the @dfn{AGPL}, but the implementation can
be commercially licensed from @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation}.

@item Scalable

@cite{LiS}, particularly on 2.4 kernels, has difficulty with the scalability of major and minor
device numbers.  This is a limitation related to some @b{Linux} 2.4 kernels themselves, however,
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} surmounts this difficulty by providing a @dfn{Shadow Special Filesystem
(specfs)} that permits an almost unlimited number of major and minor devices on even the limited
@b{Linux} 2.4 kernels.

@item Soft Real Time Performance

@cite{LiS} avoids use of high-performance @b{Linux}-specific facilities because of its aims at
portability.  @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} being aimed at only @b{Linux} uses the highest-performance
techniques available in the @b{Linux} kernel for implementation.  This includes kernel memory
caches and other techniques.

@item Maintainability

Due to its initial objective to be portable to a number of environments, @cite{LiS} has a large
volume of source code that never gets executed in the @b{Linux} environment.  Also, coding style
does not seem to follow any mainstream practises.  Aside from log messages and a few debugging flag
facilities, @cite{LiS} does not provide any debugging facilities.

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides a fully functional @dfn{STREAMS} logging facility and
@command{strerr} and @command{strace} utilities.  This permits the logging and tracing of live
modules and also permits diagnosis of a running (fielded) system.  Additional support for panic
recovery (without system failure or reboot) is also possible.

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is also resplendent with the same maintenance features based on
@command{autoconf}, @command{rpm} and @command{deb} that are used by all @cite{OpenSS7} packages,
including check scripts and installation conformance and verification test suites.

@end itemize

@node Why Linux?
@section Why Linux?
@cindex Why Linux?

Well, @b{Linux} is the only @cite{SVR 4}
@cindex SVR 4
based system that does not provide @dfn{STREAMS}, although @dfn{STREAMS} is an essential part of
@cite{SVR 4}.
@cindex SVR 4
Without @dfn{STREAMS}, @b{Linux} is just another @cite{BSD},
@cindex BSD
and perhaps a bad one.

@node Why Compatibility?
@section Why Compatibility?
@cindex Why Compatibility?

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is designed and implemented to be compatible with as many
@cite{SVR 4.2 MP}
@cindex SVR 4.2 MP
based implementations of @dfn{STREAMS} as possible.  This is done for several reasons:

@enumerate

@item @i{Porting legacy drivers to @b{Linux}:}

Many legacy @dfn{STREAMS} drivers have been written and developed for @cite{SVR 4.2 MP}
@cindex SVR 4.2 MP
or @cite{UNIX} systems based on @cite{SVR 4.2 MP}.
@cindex SVR 4.2 MP
Remaining compatible with as many implementation as possible permits these legacy drivers to be
easily ported from their native @cite{UNIX} variant to the @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
@cindex @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} (LfS)
environment, thus quickly porting these legacy drivers to @b{Linux}.

@item @i{Leverage of knowledge base:}

Many developers are familiar one or another of the mainstream @cite{UNIX} implementations of
@cite{SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS}.
@cindex SVR 4.2 MP, @dfn{STREAMS}
By remaining as compatible as possible with all these implementations of @dfn{STREAMS} permits
knowledge and expertise in the @cite{UNIX} variant of @dfn{STREAMS} to be transferred and applied
to @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
@cindex @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} (LfS)
on @b{Linux}.

@item @i{Reverse portability:}

Because it is as compatible as possible with other @dfn{STREAMS} implementations, @dfn{STREAMS}
drivers and modules developed on @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} can easily be ported to other
implementations if a set of compatibility and portability guidelines are followed.  This allows
@dfn{STREAMS} drivers and modules developed on the @b{Linux} operating system to be used on branded
@cite{UNIX} systems (or commercially available @dfn{RTOS} systems) with minimal porting and
modification.

@item @i{Standardization:}

By being as compatible as possible with as many @dfn{STREAMS} implementations as possible,
@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
@cindex @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} (LfS)
implements an @i{ipso facto} standard.  Unfortunately, the
@cite{OpenGroup}
@cindex OpenGroup
and
@cite{POSIX}
@cindex POSIX
have been very lacking in the standardization of internal kernel interfaces such as @dfn{STREAMS}.
Maximum compatibility moves close to providing a standard for such interfaces.

@end enumerate

@subsection Intel Binary Compatibility Suite (iBCS)
@cindex Intel Binary Compatibility Suite (iBCS)

The @cite{Intel Binary Compatibility Suite} provides binary compatibility on the @cite{Intel}
architecture for systems conforming to @cite{SVR 4.2}.  @cite{RedHat} has released an @cite{iBCS}
module for their distributions of @b{Linux} and the @b{Linux Kernel} for some time.

@subsubsection OpenGroup Specifications
@cindex OpenGroup Specifications

OpenGroup and POSIX specifications have never directly addressed @dfn{STREAMS} implementation within
the operating system.  I suppose that this is primarily because 4BSD based system have seldom
included @dfn{STREAMS}.  Perhaps it was due to some ideological upheaval from BSD advocates that did
not want to see @dfn{STREAMS} become part of a standard.

Nevertheless, the @dfn{STREAMS} subsystem has been an optional part of the
@url{http://www.opengroup.org/, OpenGroup} specifications for some time.  It is my opinion that the
@url{http://www.opengroup.org/, OpenGroup} has missed a rich opportunity for standardization of
kernel level interfaces.

@unnumberedsubsubsec UNIX 03 Compliance
@cindex UNIX 03 compliance
@cindex compliance, UNIX 03

@dfn{UNIX 03} compliance to @cite{Open Group Extensions} requires that XTI/TLI networking support be
provided.  (See @cite{XNS 5.2}).  As the @dfn{iBCS} has proved, this does not require full
@dfn{STREAMS} support, however, it is an easier thing to accomplish with @dfn{STREAMS} support.
Even though the @cite{XNS 5.2} specification does not describe @dfn{STREAMS}, the @cite{SUSv3} does.
The @url{http://www.opengroup.org/, OpenGroup} has never defined the internals of the @dfn{STREAMS}
facility in their @dfn{CAE} specifications; however, they are described and the user-space
facilities and system calls are completely defined and described.

@unnumberedsubsubsec UNIX 98 Compliance
@cindex UNIX 98 compliance
@cindex compliance, UNIX 98

@dfn{UNIX 98} compliance to @cite{X/Open Extensions} requires that XTI/TLI networking support be
provided.  (See @cite{XNS 5}).  As the @dfn{iBCS} has proved, this does not require full
@dfn{STREAMS} support, however, it is an easier thing to accomplish with @dfn{STREAMS} support.
Even though the @cite{XNS 5} specification does not describe @dfn{STREAMS}, the @cite{XSI 5} and
@cite{SUSv2} does.  The @url{http://www.opengroup.org/, OpenGroup} has never defined the internals
of the @dfn{STREAMS} facility in their @dfn{CAE} specifications; however, they are described and the
user-space facilities and system calls are completely defined and described.

@unnumberedsubsubsec UNIX 95 Compliance
@cindex UNIX 95 compliance
@cindex compliance, UNIX 95

@dfn{UNIX 95} compliance to @cite{X/Open Extensions} requires that XTI/TLI networking support be
provided.  (See @cite{XNS 4.2}).  As the @dfn{iBCS} has proved, this does not require full
@dfn{STREAMS} support, however, it is an easier thing to accomplish with @dfn{STREAMS} support.
Even though the @cite{XNS 4.2} specification does not describe @dfn{STREAMS}, the @cite{XSI 4.2} and
@cite{SUS} does.  The @url{http://www.opengroup.org/, OpenGroup} has never defined the internals of
the @dfn{STREAMS} facility in their @dfn{CAE} specifications; however, they are described and the
user-space facilities and system calls are completely defined and described.

@subsection Device Driver Interface (DDI)
@cindex DDI



@node Copying
@appendix Copying

@menu
* GNU Affero General Public License::	AGPL
* GNU General Public License::		GPL
* GNU Lesser General Public License::	LGPL
* GNU Free Documentation License::	FDL
@end menu

@page
@include texi/agpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/gpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/lgpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/fdl.texi

@node Glossary
@unnumbered Glossary

@table @dfn

@item anchor
@cindex anchor
A @dfn{STREAMS} locking mechanism that prevents the removal of @dfn{STREAMS} modules with the
@streamio{I_POP} @command{ioctl}.  Anchors are placed on @dfn{STREAMS} modules by adding the
@samp{[anchor]} flag to @manref{autopush(8)} configuration files or directly with the
@streamio{I_ANCHOR} @command{ioctl}.

@item autopush
@cindex autopush
A @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism that enables a pre-specified list of modules to be pushed automatically
onto a @dfn{Stream} when a @dfn{STREAMS} device is opened.  This mechanism is used only for
administrative purposes.

@item back-enable
@cindex back-enable
To enable (by @dfn{STREAMS}) a preceding blocked queue's @command{service} procedure when
@dfn{STREAMS} determines that a succeeding queue has reached its low-water mark.

@item blocked
@cindex blocked
A queue's @command{service} procedure that cannot be enabled due to flow control.

@item clone device
@cindex clone device
A @dfn{STREAMS} device that returns an unused major/minor device number when initially opened,
rather than requiring the minor device to be specified by name in the @command{open} call.

@item close procedure
@cindex close procedure
A routine that is called when a module is popped from a @dfn{Stream} or when a driver is closed.
A pointer to this procedure is specified in the @member{qi_qopen} member of the @mantype{queue(9)}
structure associated with the read side of the module's queue pair.

@item control Stream
@cindex control Stream
A @dfn{Stream} above a multiplexing driver used to establish lower multiplexer connections.
Multiplexed @dfn{Stream} configurations are maintained through the controlling @dfn{Stream} to a
multiplexing driver.

@item Device Driver Interface
@cindex Device Driver Interface
An interface that facilitates driver portability across different @cite{UNIX} system versions.

@item device driver
@cindex device driver
A @dfn{Stream} component whose principle functions are handling an associated physical device and
transforming data and information between the external interface and the @dfn{Stream}.

@item Driver Kernel Interface
@cindex Driver Kernel Interface
An interface between the @cite{UNIX} system kernel and different types of drivers.  It consists of a
set of driver defined functions that are called by the kernel.  These functions are entry points
into a driver.

@item downstream
@cindex downstream
A direction of data flow going from the @dfn{Stream head} toward a driver.  Also called the
@dfn{write-side} and @dfn{output-side}.

@item driver
@cindex driver
A module that forms the @dfn{Stream end}.  It can be a device driver or a pseudo-device driver.  It
is a required component in @dfn{STREAMS} (except in @dfn{STREAMS}-based pipes and FIFOs), and is
physically identical to a module.  It typically handles data transfer between the kernel and a
device and does little or no processing of data.

@item enable
@cindex enable
A term used to describe scheduling of a queue's @command{service} procedure.

@item FIFO
@cindex FIFO
@dfn{First In, First Out}.  A term used in @dfn{STREAMS} for named pipes.  This term is also used in
queue scheduling.

@item flow control
@cindex flow control
A @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism that regulates the rate of message transfer within a @dfn{Strema} and from
user space into a @dfn{Stream}.

@item hardware emulation module
@cindex hardware emulation module
A module required when the terminal line discipline is on a @dfn{Stream} but there is no terminal
driver at the @dfn{Stream end}.  This module recognizes all @manref{termio(7)} @command{ioctl}s
necessary to support terminal semantics specified by @mantype{termio(9)} and @mantype{termios(9)}.

@item input side
@cindex input side
A direction of data flow going from a driver toward the @dfn{Stream head}.  Also called
@dfn{read-side} and @dfn{upstream}.

@item line discipline
@cindex line discipline
A @dfn{STREAMS} module that performs @manref{termio(7)} canonical and non-canonical processing.  It
shares some @manref{termio(7)} processing with a driver in a @dfn{STREAMS} terminal subsystem.

@item lower Stream
@cindex lower Stream
A @dfn{Stream} connected beneath a multiplexing pseudo-device driver, by means of an
@streamio{I_LINK} or @streamio{I_PLINK} @command{ioctl}.  The far end of a lower @dfn{Stream}
terminates at a device driver or another multiplexer driver.

@item master driver
@cindex master driver
A @dfn{STREAMS}-based device supported by the pseudo-terminal subsystem.  It is the controlling part
of the pseudo-terminal subsystem (also called @samp{ptm}).

@item message
@cindex message
One or more linked message blocks.  A message is referenced by its first message block and its type
is defined by the message type of that block.

@item message block
@cindex message block
A triplet consisting of a data buffer and associated control structures, a @mantype{msgb(9)}
structure, a @mantype{datab(9)} structure.  It carries data or information, as identified by its
message type, in a @dfn{Stream}.

@item message queue
@cindex message queue
A linked list of zero or more messages connected together.

@item message type
@cindex message type
A enumerated set of values identifying the contents of a message.

@item module
@cindex module
A defined set of kernel-level routines and data structure used to process data, status, and control
information on a @dfn{Stream}.  It is an optional element, but there can be many modules in one
@dfn{Stream}.  It consists of a pair of queues (read queue and write queue), and it communicates to
other components in a @dfn{Stream} by passing messages.

@item multiplexer
@cindex multiplexer
A @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism that allows message to be routed among multiple @dfn{Streams} in the
kernel.  A multiplexing configuration includes at least one multiplexing pseudo-device driver
connected to one or more upper @dfn{Streams} and one or more lower @dfn{Streams}.

@item named Stream
@cindex named Stream
A @dfn{Stream}, typically a pipe, with a name associated with it by way of a call to
@manref{fattach(3)} (that is, a @manref{mount(2)} operation).  This is different from a named pipe
(FIFO) in two ways: a named pipe (FIFO) is unidirectional while a named @dfn{Stream} is
bidirectional; a name @dfn{Stream} need not refer to a pipe, but can be another type of
@dfn{Stream}.

@item open routine
@cindex open routine
A procedure in each @dfn{STREAMS} driver and module called by @dfn{STREAMS} on each @command{open}
system call made on the @dfn{Stream}.  A module's @command{open} procedure is also called when the
module is pushed.

@item packet mode
@cindex packet mode
A feature supported by the @dfn{STREAMS}-based pseudo-terminal subsystem.  It is used to inform a
process on the master side when state changes occur on the slave side of a pseudo-TTY.  It is
enabled by pushing a module called @samp{pckt} on the master side.

@item persistent link
@cindex persistent link
A connection below a multiplexer that can exist without having an open controlling @dfn{Stream}
associated with it.

@item pipe
@cindex pipe
See @dfn{STREAMS}-based pipe.

@item pop
@cindex pop
A term used when a module that is immediately below the @dfn{Stream} head is removed.

@item pseudo-device driver
@cindex pseudo-device driver
A software driver, not directly associated with a physical device, that performs functions internal
to a @dfn{Stream} such as a multiplexer or @manref{log(4)} driver.

@item pseudo-terminal subsystem
@cindex pseudo-terminal subsystem
A user interface identical to a terminal subsystem except that there is a process in place of a
hardware device.  It consists of at least a master device, slave device, line discipline module, and
hardware emulation module.

@item push
@cindex push
A term used when a module is inserted in a @dfn{Stream} immediately below the @dfn{Stream head}.

@item pushable module
@cindex pushable module
A module put between the @dfn{Stream head} and driver.  It performs intermediate transformations on
messages flowing between the @dfn{Stream head} and driver.  A driver is a non-pushable module.

@item put procedure
@cindex put procedure
A routine in a module or driver associated with a queue that receives messages from the preceding
queue.  It is the single entry point into a queue from a preceding queue.  It may perform processing
on the message and will then generally either queue the message for subsequent processing by this
queue's @command{service} procedure, or will pass the message to the @command{put} procedure of the
following queue (using @manref{putnext(9)}).

@item queue
@cindex queue
A data structure that contains status information, a pointer to routines processing message, and
pointers for administering a @dfn{Stream}.  It typically contains pointer to @command{put} and
@command{service} procedures, a message queue, and private data.

@item read-side
@cindex read-side
A direction of data flow going from a driver toward the @dfn{Stream head}.  Also called
@dfn{upstream} and @dfn{input-side}.

@item read queue
@cindex read queue
A message queue in a module or driver containing messages moving @dfn{upstream}.  Associated with
the @manref{read(2)} system call and input from a driver.

@item remote mode
@cindex remote mode
A feature available with the pseudo-terminal subsystem.  It is used for applications that perform
the canonical and echoing functions normally done by line discipline module and TTY driver.  It
enables applications on the master side to turn off the canonical processing.

@item STREAMS Administrative Driver
@cindex STREAMS Administrative Driver
A @dfn{STREAMS} Administrative Driver that provides an interface to the @manref{autopush(8)}
mechanism.

@item schedule
@cindex schedule
To place a queue on the internal list of queues that will subsequently have their service procedure
called by the @dfn{STREAMS} scheduler.  @dfn{STREAMS} scheduling is independent of @cite{Linux}
process scheduling.

@item service interface
@cindex service interface
A set of primitives that define a service at the boundary between a service user and a service
provider and the rules (typically represented by a state machine) for allowable sequences of the
primitives across the boundary.  At a @dfn{Stream}/user boundary, the primitives are typically
contained in the control part of a message; within a @dfn{Stream}, in @msg{M_PROTO} or
@msg{M_PCPROTO} message blocks.

@item service procedure
@cindex service procedure
A module or driver routine associated with a queue that receives messages queue for it by the
@command{put} procedure is called by the @dfn{STREAMS} scheduler.  It may perform processing on the
message and generally passes the message to the @command{put} procedure of the following queue.

@item service provider
@cindex service provider
An entity in a service interface that responds to request primitives from the service user with
response and event primitives.

@item service user
@cindex service user
An entity in a service interface that generates request primitives for the service provider and
consumes response and event primitives.

@item slave driver
@cindex slave driver
A @dfn{STREAMS}-based device supported by the pseudo-terminal subsystem.  It is also called
@samp{pts} and works with a line discipline module and hardware emulation module to provide an
interface to a user process.

@item standard pipe
@cindex standard pipe
A mechanism for the unidirectional flow of data between two processes where data written by one
process becomes data read by the other process.

@item Stream
@cindex Stream
A kernel level aggregate created by connecting @dfn{STREAMS} components, resulting from an
application of the @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism.  The primary components are the @dfn{Stream head}, the
driver (or @dfn{Stream end}), and zero or more pushable modules between the @dfn{Stream head} and
driver.

@item STREAMS-based pipe
@cindex STREAMS-based pipe
A mechanism used for bidirectional data transfer implemented using @dfn{STREAMS}, and sharing the
properties of @dfn{STREAMS}-based devices.

@item Stream end
@cindex Stream end
A @dfn{Stream} component furthest from the user process that contains a driver.

@item Stream head
@cindex Stream head
A @dfn{Stream} component closest to the user process.  It provides the interface between the
@dfn{Stream} and the user process.

@item STREAMS
@cindex STREAMS
A kernel mechanism that provides the framework for network services and data communication.  It
defines interface standards for character input/output within the kernel, and between the kernel
and user level.  The @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism includes integral functions, utility routines, kernel
facilities, and a set of structures.

@item TTY driver
@cindex TTY driver
A @dfn{STREAMS}-based device used in a terminal subsystem.

@item upper stream
@cindex upper stream
A @dfn{Stream} that terminates above a multiplexing driver.  The beginning of an upper @dfn{Stream}
originates at the @dfn{Stream head} or another multiplexing driver.

@item upstream
@cindex upstream
A direction of data flow going from a driver toward the @dfn{Stream head}.  Also called
@dfn{read-side} and @dfn{input side}.

@item water mark
@cindex water mark
A limit value used in flow control.  Each queue has a high-water mark and a low-water mark.  The
high-water mark value indicates the upper limit related to the number of bytes contained on the
queue.  When the queued character reaches its high water mark, @dfn{STREAMS} causes another queue
that attempts to send a message to this queue to become blocked.  When the characters in this queue
are reduced to the low-water mark value, the other queue is unblocked by @dfn{STREAMS}.

@item write queue
@cindex write queue
A message queue in a module or driver containing messages moving downstream.  Associated with the
@manref{write(2)} system call and output from a user process.

@item write-side
@cindex write-side
A direction of data flow going from the @dfn{Stream head} toward a driver.  Also called downstream
and output side.

@end table

@ifnotinfo
@node List of Figures
@unnumbered List of Figures

@listoffloats Figure
@end ifnotinfo

@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@c @page
@c @node Indices
@c @unnumbered Indices
@c @menu
@c * Concept Index::		Index of Concepts
@c * Type Index::			Index of Data Types
@c * Function Index::		Index of Functions and Macros
@c * Variable Index::		Index of Variables and Constants
@c * File Index::			Index of Files and Programs
@c @end menu
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Concept Index
@c @unnumberedsec Concept Index
@printindex cp

@c @page
@c @node Type Index
@c @unnumberedsec Type Index
@c @printindex tp
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Function Index
@c @unnumberedsec Function and Macro Index
@c @printindex fn
@c 
@c @page
@c @node Variable Index
@c @unnumberedsec Variable and Constant Macro Index
@c @printindex vr
@c 
@c @page
@c @node File Index
@c @unnumberedsec Program and File Index
@c @printindex pg

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye

