@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: tree.texi,v 0.9.2.7 2007/06/22 00:18:47 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/06/22 00:18:47 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c $Log: tree.texi,v $
@c Revision 0.9.2.7  2007/06/22 00:18:47  brian
@c - mostly documentation updates for release, some netconfig workaround
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.6  2007/02/28 06:30:56  brian
@c - updates and corrections, #ifdef instead of #if
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.5  2007/01/08 16:23:31  brian
@c - final updates for release
@c
@c =========================================================================

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} creates the following kernel modules files in the kernel modules
directory, @file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-}:@footnote{The kernel version
@samp{@value{_kversion}} is just and example.  For the running kernel, @samp{uname -r} is expected.}

@table @file
@item modules.@value{PACKAGE_LCNAME}
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following kernel module files in the kernel modules
directory, @file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:@footnote{The kernel
version @samp{@value{_kversion}} is just and example.  For the running kernel, @samp{uname -r} is
expected.}

@table @file
@item specfs.ko
@item streams.ko
@item streams_fifo.ko
@item streams_sad.ko
@item streams_nsdev.ko
@item streams_echo.ko
@item streams_mux.ko
@item streams_nuls.ko
@item streams_pipe.ko
@item streams_log.ko
@item streams_loop.ko
@item streams_sfx.ko
@item streams_spx.ko
@item streams_bufmod.ko
@item streams_nullmod.ko
@item streams_pipemod.ko
@item streams_connld.ko
@item streams_sc.ko
@item streams_testmod.ko
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following header files in the system include directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-include/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:

@table @header
@item sys/streams/config.h
@item sys/streams/version.h
@item sys/streams/cmn_err.h
@item sys/streams/ddi.h
@item sys/streams/debug.h
@item sys/streams/dki.h
@item sys/streams/kmem.h
@item sys/streams/strconf.h
@item sys/streams/strdebug.h
@item sys/streams/stream.h
@item sys/streams/strlog.h
@item sys/streams/stropts.h
@item sys/streams/stropts32.h
@item sys/streams/strsubr.h
@item sys/streams/log.h
@item sys/streams/loop.h
@item sys/streams/sad.h
@item sys/streams/sc.h
@item sys/streams/testmod.h
@item sys/cmn_err.h
@item sys/ddi.h
@item sys/debug.h
@item sys/dki.h
@item sys/kmem.h
@item sys/strconf.h
@item sys/strdebug.h
@item sys/stream.h
@item sys/strlog.h
@item sys/stropts.h
@item sys/stropts32.h
@item sys/strsubr.h
@item sys/log.h
@item sys/loop.h
@item sys/sad.h
@item sys/sc.h
@item sys/testmod.h
@item strlog.h
@item stropts.h
@item log.h
@item loop.h
@item sad.h
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following test programs in the system libexec directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-libexec/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:@footnote{Note that on some systems,
@file{/usr/libexec} does not exist, and @file{/usr/lib} is used instead.}

@table @file
@item send-pr
@itemx send-pr.config
The @command{send-pr} stand-alone shell script can be used for the automatic generation of problem
reports for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  The @file{send-pr.config} file provides
localized definitions used by the @command{send-pr} program.
For more information on problem reports, @xref{Problem Reports}, and, in particular, @xref{Stand
Alone Problem Reports}.
@item testlog
@item test-streams
test case exectutable.
@item test-clone
test case exectutable.
@item test-connld
test case exectutable.
@item test-echo
test case exectutable.
@item test-fifo
test case exectutable.
@item test-log
test case exectutable.
@item test-loop
test case exectutable.
@item test-nsdev
test case exectutable.
@item test-mux
test case exectutable.
@item test-nuls
test case exectutable.
@item test-pipe
test case exectutable.
@item perftest
@item perftestn
@item test-pipemod
test case exectutable.
@item test-sad
test case exectutable.
@item test-sc
test case exectutable.
@item testsuite
@itemx atlocal
The @command{testsuite} stand-alone shell script invokes test cases in the test programs above as
compiled into a comprehensive regression, troubleshooting and validation test suite for the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers.  The @file{atlocal} file provides localized definitions used
by the @command{testsuite} program.
For more information on test suites, @xref{Test Suites}, and, in particular, @xref{Running Test
Suites}.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following utility programs in the system binary
directory, @file{/@-usr/@-sbin/@-}:

@table @file
@item strclean
@item strload
@item strsetup
@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod
This utility can be used by init scripts or administrative users to create or remove device nodes in
the @file{/dev} directory for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers.
@item autopush
@item strace
@item strerr
@item scls
@item strinfo
@item fattach
@item fdetach
@item insf
@item strvf
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following user programs in the user binary
directory, @file{/@-usr/@-bin/@-}:

@table @file
@item strchg
@item strconf
@item strreset
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following static and shared object libraries in the
system library directory, @file{/@-usr/@-lib/@-} (32-bit libraries) and @file{/@-usr/@-lib64/@-}
(64-bit libraries):

@table @file
@item libstreams.so.0.0.1
@itemx libstreams.so.0
@itemx libstreams.so
@item libstreams.a
@item libstreams.la
@item libLiS.so.0.0.1
@itemx libLiS.so.0
@itemx libLiS.so
@item libLiS.a
@item libLiS.la
@item libpLiS.so.0.0.1
@itemx libpLiS.so.0
@itemx libpLiS.so
@item libpLiS.a
@item libpLiS.la
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following internationalization catalogues in
the internationalization directory, @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-locale/}:

@table @file
@item de/LC_MESSAGES/@value{PACKAGE}.mo
@end table
@end ignore

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following init scripts in the system init directory,
@file{/@-etc/@-rc.d/@-init.d/@-} (non-Debian) or @file{/@-etc/@-init.d/@-} (Debian):

@table @file
@item specfs
@itemx specfs.sh
@item @value{PACKAGE}
This is the name of the system init script on non-Debian based systems.
@item @value{PACKAGE}.sh
This is the name of the system init script on Debian based systems.
@item strace
@itemx strace.sh
@item strerr
@itemx strerr.sh
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following system configuration files in the configuration
directory, @file{/@-etc/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.conf
This file provided configuration information for any system controls affected by the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.
@item strsetup.conf
@item strload.conf
@item modutils/@-@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides module definitions and demand loading aliases for the @file{@value{PACKAGE}}
package.  This file is really only applicable to older 2.4 kernels.
@ignore
@item netconfig.d/@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides the @manpage{netconfig(5)} definitions for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
drivers.
@manpage{netconfig(5)} definitions are used by the @file{strnsl} package and the @file{libxnsl}
library.
@item sock2path.d/@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides the @manpage{sock2path(5)} definitions for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
drivers.
@manpage{sock2path(5)} definitions are used by the @file{strsock} package and the @file{libsocket}
library.
@end ignore
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following system configuration file in the system
configuration directory, @file{/@-etc/@-sysconfig/@-} (non-Debian) or @file{/@-etc/@-default/@-}
(Debian):

@table @file
@item specfs
@item @value{PACKAGE}
This file provides system configuration information used by init scripts for the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.  Some options of init script execution can be controlled by
this file.
@item strace
@item strerr
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following info files in the system info directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-info/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}.info
@itemx @value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}.info-1
@itemx @value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}.info-2
These files contain this manual in @cite{GNU info} format.
@item porting.info
@item STREAMS_FAQ.info
@item SPG2.info
@itemx SPG2.info-1
@itemx SPG2.info-2
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual page macros and reference database files in
the system man directory, @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-}:@footnote{Note that macro and reference
databse files are not installed if the package is configured for cooked manpages.}

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.macros
This file contains manual page macro definitions included by the manual pages included in the
package.
@item @value{PACKAGE}.refs
This file contains a reference database referenced by the manual pages included in the package.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man1/@-}:

@table @file
@item strchg.1
@item strconf.1
@item strreset.1
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man2/@-}:

@table @file
@item fattach.2
@item fdetach.2
@item getmsg.2
@item getpmsg.2s
@item isastream.2
@item pipe.2s
@item putmsg.2
@item putpmsg.2s
@item poll.2s
@item read.2s
@item readv.2s
@item write.2s
@item writev.2s
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man3/@-}:

@table @file
@item fattach.3
@item fdetach.3
@item isastream.3
@item libstreams.3
@item libLiS.3
@item libpLiS.3
@item streams.3
@item LiS.3
@item pLiS.3
@item pipe.3
@item pstrlog.3
@item strlog.3
@item vstrlog.3
@item s_pipe.3
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man4/@-}:

@table @file
@item sth.4
@item s_fifo.4
@item clone.4
@item echo.4
@item fifo.4s
@item conslog.4
@item log.4
@item strlog.4
@item loop.4
@item loop_clone.4
@item sloop.4
@item mux.4
@item nsdev.4
@item nuls.4
@item pipe.4
@item sad.4
@item sfx.4
@item spx.4
@item connld.4
@item nullmod.4
@item bufmod.4
@item pipemod.4
@item sc.4
@item testmod.4
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man5/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.5
manual page for the @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(5)} package.
@item autopush.5
@item specfs.5
@item strapush.5
@item strioctl.5
@item strsetup.conf.5
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man7/@-}:

@table @file
@item streamio.7
@item I_ANCHOR.7
@item I_ATMARK.7
@item I_CANPUT.7
@item I_CKBAND.7
@item I_FATTACH.7
@item I_FDETACH.7
@item I_FDINSERT.7
@item I_FIND.7
@item I_FLUSH.7
@item I_FLUSHBAND.7
@item I_GERROPT.7
@item I_GETBAND.7
@item I_GETCLTIME.7
@item I_GETPMSG.7
@item I_GETSIG.7
@item I_EGETSIG.7
@item I_GRDOPT.7
@item I_GWROPT.7
@item I_ISASTREAM.7
@item I_LINK.7
@item I_LIST.7
@item I_LOOK.7
@item I_NREAD.7
@item I_PEEK.7
@item I_PIPE.7
@item I_PLINK.7
@item I_POP.7
@item I_PUNLINK.7
@item I_PUSH.7
@item I_PUTPMSG.7
@item I_RECVFD.7
@item I_SENDFD.7
@item I_SERROPT.7
@item I_SETCLTIME.7
@item I_SETSIG.7
@item I_ESETSIG.7
@item I_SRDOPT.7
@item I_STR.7
@item I_SWROPT.7
@item I_UNLINK.7
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man8/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod.8
Documentation for the @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}_mknod(8)} utility program.
@item test-streams.8
@item perftest.8
@item perftestn.8
@item testlog.8
@item specfs.sh.8
@item streams.sh.8
@item specfs.8
@item streams.8
@item test-clone.8
@item test-echo.8
@item test-fifo.8
@item test-log.8
@item strace.8
@item strerr.8
@item strclean.8
@item test-loop.8
@item test-mux.8
@item test-nsdev.8
@item test-nuls.8
@item test-pipe.8
@item fattach.8
@item fdetach.8
@item test-sad.8
@item autopush.8
@item test-connld.8
@item test-pipemod.8
@item test-sc.8
@item scls.8
@item strinfo.8
@item insf.8
@item strload.8
@item strsetup.8
@item strvf.8
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man9/@-}:

@table @file
@item LfS.9
@item OTHERQ.9
@item RD.9
@item SAMESTR.9
@item STREAMS.9
@item WR.9
@item M_BACKDONE.9
@item M_BACKWASH.9
@item M_BREAK.9
@item M_COPYIN.9
@item M_COPYOUT.9
@item M_CTL.9
@item M_DATA.9
@item M_DELAY.9
@item M_DONTPLAY.9
@item M_ERROR.9
@item M_EVENT.9
@item M_FLUSH.9
@item M_HANGUP.9
@item M_HPDATA.9
@item M_IOCACK.9
@item M_IOCDATA.9
@item M_IOCNAK.9
@item M_IOCTL.9
@item M_LETSPLAY.9
@item M_NOTIFY.9
@item M_PASSFP.9
@item M_PCCTL.9
@item M_PCEVENT.9
@item M_PCPROTO.9
@item M_PCRSE.9
@item M_PCSETOPTS.9
@item M_PCSIG.9
@item M_PROTO.9
@item M_READ.9
@item M_RSE.9
@item M_SETOPTS.9
@item M_SIG.9
@item M_START.9
@item M_STARTI.9
@item M_STOP.9
@item M_STOPI.9
@item M_TRAIL.9
@item M_UNHANGUP.9
@item QNORM.9
@item QPCTL.9
@item adjmsg.9
@item allocb.9
@item alloclk.9
@item allocq.9
@item allocstr.9
@item appq.9
@item apush_get.9
@item apush_set.9
@item apush_vml.9
@item autopush.9
@item autopush_add.9
@item autopush_del.9
@item autopush_find.9
@item autopush_search.9
@item autopush_vml.9
@item backq.9
@item bcanget.9
@item bcanput.9
@item bcanputnext.9
@item bcid_t.9
@item bcmp.9
@item bcopy.9
@item bufcall.9
@item bufcall_id_t.9
@item bzero.9
@item canenable.9
@item canget.9
@item canput.9
@item canputnext.9
@item cdev_count.9
@item cdev_find.9
@item cdev_match.9
@item cdev_minor.9
@item cdev_str.9
@item cdevsw.9
@item cdevsw_list.9
@item cdevsw_lock.9
@item cdrv_get.9
@item cdrv_put.9
@item cmaj_add.9
@item cmaj_del.9
@item cmaj_get.9
@item cmin_add.9
@item cmin_count.9
@item cmin_del.9
@item cmin_find.9
@item cmin_get.9
@item cmin_ini.9
@item cmin_rel.9
@item cmn_err.9
@item copyb.9
@item copyin.9
@item copymsg.9
@item copyout.9
@item copyreq.9
@item copyresp.9
@item cred_t.9
@item ctlmsg.9
@item datab.9
@item datamsg.9
@item dblk_t.9
@item delay.9
@item devnode.9
@item dev_t.9
@item do_fattach.9
@item do_fdetach.9
@item do_spipe.9
@item drv_getparm.9
@item drv_hztomsec.9
@item drv_hztousec.9
@item drv_msectohz.9
@item drv_priv.9
@item drv_usectohz.9
@item drv_usecwait.9
@item dupb.9
@item dupmsg.9
@item enableok.9
@item enableq.9
@item esballoc.9
@item esbbcall.9
@item flushband.9
@item flushq.9
@item fmod_add.9
@item fmod_count.9
@item fmod_del.9
@item fmod_find.9
@item fmod_get.9
@item fmod_put.9
@item fmod_str.9
@item fmodsw.9
@item fmodsw_list.9
@item fmodsw_lock.9
@item freeb.9
@item freelk.9
@item freemsg.9
@item freeq.9
@item freestr.9
@item freezestr.9
@item frtn_t.9
@item getadmin.9
@item getmajor.9
@item getmid.9
@item getminor.9
@item getq.9
@item insq.9
@item iocblk.9
@item isdatablk.9
@item isdatamsg.9
@item kmem_alloc.9
@item kmem_alloc_node.9
@item kmem_free.9
@item kmem_zalloc.9
@item kmem_zalloc_node.9
@item linkb.9
@item linkblk.9
@item linkmsg.9
@item major_t.9
@item makedevice.9
@item max.9
@item mblk_t.9
@item min.9
@item minor_t.9
@item modID_t.9
@item module_info.9
@item module_stat.9
@item module_stat_t.9
@item msgb.9
@item msgdsize.9
@item msgpullup.9
@item msgsize.9
@item noenable.9
@item pcmsg.9
@item pullupmsg.9
@item put.9
@item putbq.9
@item putctl.9
@item putctl1.9
@item putctl2.9
@item putnext.9
@item putnextctl.9
@item putnextctl1.9
@item putnextctl2.9
@item putq.9
@item qattach.9
@item qbackenable.9
@item qband.9
@item qband_t.9
@item qclose.9
@item qcountstrm.9
@item qdelete.9
@item qdetach.9
@item qenable.9
@item qfields.9
@item qfields_t.9
@item qi_putp_t.9
@item qi_qadmin_t.9
@item qi_qclose_t.9
@item qi_qopen_t.9
@item qi_srvp_t.9
@item qi_putp.9
@item qi_qadmin.9
@item qi_qclose.9
@item qinit.9
@item qi_qopen.9
@item qi_srvp.9
@item qinsert.9
@item qopen.9
@item qprocsoff.9
@item qprocson.9
@item qready.9
@item qreply.9
@item qscan.9
@item qsize.9
@item queue.9
@item queue_t.9
@item register_clone.9
@item register_cmajor.9
@item register_ioctl32.9
@item register_strdev.9
@item register_strdrv.9
@item register_strmod.9
@item register_strnod.9
@item register_strlog.9
@item rmvb.9
@item rmvq.9
@item runqueues.9
@item sd_get.9
@item sd_put.9
@item sdev_add.9
@item sdev_del.9
@item sdev_get.9
@item sdev_ini.9
@item sdev_put.9
@item sdev_rel.9
@item sealloc.9
@item sefree.9
@item setq.9
@item setsq.9
@item setqsched.9
@item skballoc.9
@item spec_open.9
@item spec_reparent.9
@item specfs_mount.9
@item specfs_umount.9
@item streamtab.9
@item streamtab_t.9
@item strgetpmsg.9
@item strlog.9
@item str_close.9
@item str_open.9
@item strm_f_ops.9
@item stroptions.9
@item strputpmsg.9
@item strqget.9
@item strqset.9
@item strrput.9
@item strthread.9
@item strthreads.9
@item strwput.9
@item strwsrv.9
@item sysctl_str_nstrpush.9
@item sysctl_str_strctlsz.9
@item sysctl_str_strmsgsz.9
@item testb.9
@item timeout.9
@item timeout_id_t.9
@item timo_fcn_t.9
@item toid_t.9
@item unbufcall.9
@item unfreezestr.9
@item unlinkb.9
@item unlinkmsg.9
@item unregister_clone.9
@item unregister_cmajor.9
@item unregister_ioctl32.9
@item unregister_strdev.9
@item unregister_strdrv.9
@item unregister_strmod.9
@item unregister_strnod.9
@item untimeout.9
@item unweldq.9
@item vcmn_err.9
@item vstrlog.9
@item vstrlog_t.9
@item weld_arg_t.9
@item weld_fcn_t.9
@item weldq.9
@item xmsgsize.9
@item bcangetany.9
@item bcanputany.9
@item bcanputnextany.9
@item strioctl.9
@item strpoll.9
@item strread.9
@item strsendpage.9
@item strwrite.9
@item DDI.9
@item Intro.9
@item mp-streams.9
@item SPG.9
@end table

@ignore
/usr
/usr/include
/usr/include/streams
/usr/include/streams/sys
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/config.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/version.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/cmn_err.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/ddi.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/debug.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/dki.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/kmem.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/strconf.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/strdebug.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/stream.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/strlog.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/stropts.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/stropts32.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/strsubr.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/log.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/loop.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/sad.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/sc.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/streams/testmod.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/cmn_err.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/ddi.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/debug.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/dki.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/kmem.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/strconf.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/strdebug.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/stream.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/strlog.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/stropts.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/stropts32.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/strsubr.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/log.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/loop.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/sad.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/sc.h
/usr/include/streams/sys/testmod.h
/usr/include/streams/strlog.h
/usr/include/streams/stropts.h
/usr/include/streams/log.h
/usr/include/streams/loop.h
/usr/include/streams/sad.h
/usr/lib
/usr/lib/libstreams.so.0.0.1
/usr/lib/libstreams.so.0
/usr/lib/libstreams.so
/usr/lib/libstreams.la
/usr/lib/libstreams.a
/usr/lib/libLiS.so.0.0.1
/usr/lib/libLiS.so.0
/usr/lib/libLiS.so
/usr/lib/libLiS.la
/usr/lib/libLiS.a
/usr/lib/libpLiS.so.0.0.1
/usr/lib/libpLiS.so.0
/usr/lib/libpLiS.so
/usr/lib/libpLiS.la
/usr/lib/libpLiS.a
/usr/bin
/usr/bin/strchg
/usr/bin/strconf
/usr/bin/strreset
/usr/libexec
/usr/libexec/streams
/usr/libexec/streams/send-pr
/usr/libexec/streams/send-pr.config
/usr/libexec/streams/testlog
/usr/libexec/streams/test-streams
/usr/libexec/streams/test-clone
/usr/libexec/streams/test-connld
/usr/libexec/streams/test-echo
/usr/libexec/streams/test-fifo
/usr/libexec/streams/test-log
/usr/libexec/streams/test-loop
/usr/libexec/streams/test-nsdev
/usr/libexec/streams/test-mux
/usr/libexec/streams/test-nuls
/usr/libexec/streams/test-pipe
/usr/libexec/streams/perftest
/usr/libexec/streams/perftestn
/usr/libexec/streams/test-pipemod
/usr/libexec/streams/test-sad
/usr/libexec/streams/test-sc
/usr/libexec/streams/testsuite
/usr/libexec/streams/atlocal
/usr/sbin
/usr/sbin/strclean
/usr/sbin/strload
/usr/sbin/strsetup
/usr/sbin/streams_mknod
/usr/sbin/autopush
/usr/sbin/strace
/usr/sbin/strerr
/usr/sbin/scls
/usr/sbin/strinfo
/usr/sbin/fattach
/usr/sbin/fdetach
/usr/sbin/insf
/usr/sbin/strvf
/usr/share
/usr/share/man
/usr/share/man/streams.macros
/usr/share/man/streams.refs
/usr/share/man/man1
/usr/share/man/man1/strchg.1
/usr/share/man/man1/strconf.1
/usr/share/man/man1/strreset.1
/usr/share/man/man2
/usr/share/man/man2/fattach.2
/usr/share/man/man2/fdetach.2
/usr/share/man/man2/getmsg.2
/usr/share/man/man2/getpmsg.2s
/usr/share/man/man2/isastream.2
/usr/share/man/man2/pipe.2s
/usr/share/man/man2/putmsg.2
/usr/share/man/man2/putpmsg.2s
/usr/share/man/man2/poll.2s
/usr/share/man/man2/read.2s
/usr/share/man/man2/readv.2s
/usr/share/man/man2/write.2s
/usr/share/man/man2/writev.2s
/usr/share/man/man3
/usr/share/man/man3/fattach.3
/usr/share/man/man3/fdetach.3
/usr/share/man/man3/isastream.3
/usr/share/man/man3/libstreams.3
/usr/share/man/man3/libLiS.3
/usr/share/man/man3/libpLiS.3
/usr/share/man/man3/streams.3
/usr/share/man/man3/LiS.3
/usr/share/man/man3/pLiS.3
/usr/share/man/man3/pipe.3
/usr/share/man/man3/pstrlog.3
/usr/share/man/man3/strlog.3
/usr/share/man/man3/vstrlog.3
/usr/share/man/man3/s_pipe.3
/usr/share/man/man4
/usr/share/man/man4/sth.4
/usr/share/man/man4/s_fifo.4
/usr/share/man/man4/clone.4
/usr/share/man/man4/echo.4
/usr/share/man/man4/fifo.4s
/usr/share/man/man4/conslog.4
/usr/share/man/man4/log.4
/usr/share/man/man4/strlog.4
/usr/share/man/man4/loop.4
/usr/share/man/man4/loop_clone.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sloop.4
/usr/share/man/man4/mux.4
/usr/share/man/man4/nsdev.4
/usr/share/man/man4/nuls.4
/usr/share/man/man4/pipe.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sad.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sfx.4
/usr/share/man/man4/spx.4
/usr/share/man/man4/connld.4
/usr/share/man/man4/nullmod.4
/usr/share/man/man4/bufmod.4
/usr/share/man/man4/pipemod.4
/usr/share/man/man4/sc.4
/usr/share/man/man4/testmod.4
/usr/share/man/man5
/usr/share/man/man5/specfs.5
/usr/share/man/man5/strioctl.5
/usr/share/man/man5/autopush.5
/usr/share/man/man5/strapush.5
/usr/share/man/man5/strsetup.conf.5
/usr/share/man/man7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_ANCHOR.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_ATMARK.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_CANPUT.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_CKBAND.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_FATTACH.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_FDETACH.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_FDINSERT.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_FIND.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_FLUSH.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_FLUSHBAND.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_GERROPT.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_GETBAND.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_GETCLTIME.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_GETPMSG.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_GETSIG.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_EGETSIG.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_GRDOPT.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_GWROPT.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_ISASTREAM.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_LINK.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_LIST.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_LOOK.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_NREAD.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_PEEK.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_PIPE.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_PLINK.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_POP.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_PUNLINK.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_PUSH.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_PUTPMSG.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_RECVFD.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_SENDFD.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_SERROPT.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_SETCLTIME.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_SETSIG.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_ESETSIG.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_SRDOPT.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_STR.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_SWROPT.7
/usr/share/man/man7/I_UNLINK.7
/usr/share/man/man7/streamio.7
/usr/share/man/man8
/usr/share/man/man8/streams_mknod.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-streams.8
/usr/share/man/man8/perftest.8
/usr/share/man/man8/perftestn.8
/usr/share/man/man8/testlog.8
/usr/share/man/man8/specfs.sh.8
/usr/share/man/man8/streams.sh.8
/usr/share/man/man8/specfs.8
/usr/share/man/man8/streams.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-clone.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-echo.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-fifo.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-log.8
/usr/share/man/man8/strace.8
/usr/share/man/man8/strerr.8
/usr/share/man/man8/strclean.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-loop.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-mux.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-nsdev.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-nuls.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-pipe.8
/usr/share/man/man8/fattach.8
/usr/share/man/man8/fdetach.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-sad.8
/usr/share/man/man8/autopush.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-connld.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-pipemod.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-sc.8
/usr/share/man/man8/scls.8
/usr/share/man/man8/strinfo.8
/usr/share/man/man8/insf.8
/usr/share/man/man8/strload.8
/usr/share/man/man8/strsetup.8
/usr/share/man/man8/strvf.8
/usr/share/man/man9
/usr/share/man/man9/LfS.9
/usr/share/man/man9/OTHERQ.9
/usr/share/man/man9/RD.9
/usr/share/man/man9/SAMESTR.9
/usr/share/man/man9/STREAMS.9
/usr/share/man/man9/WR.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_BACKDONE.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_BACKWASH.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_BREAK.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_COPYIN.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_COPYOUT.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_CTL.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_DATA.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_DELAY.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_DONTPLAY.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_ERROR.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_EVENT.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_FLUSH.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_HANGUP.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_HPDATA.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_IOCACK.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_IOCDATA.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_IOCNAK.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_IOCTL.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_LETSPLAY.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_NOTIFY.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_PASSFP.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_PCCTL.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_PCEVENT.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_PCPROTO.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_PCRSE.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_PCSETOPTS.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_PCSIG.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_PROTO.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_READ.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_RSE.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_SETOPTS.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_SIG.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_START.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_STARTI.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_STOP.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_STOPI.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_TRAIL.9
/usr/share/man/man9/M_UNHANGUP.9
/usr/share/man/man9/QNORM.9
/usr/share/man/man9/QPCTL.9
/usr/share/man/man9/adjmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/allocb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/alloclk.9
/usr/share/man/man9/allocq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/allocstr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/appq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/apush_get.9
/usr/share/man/man9/apush_set.9
/usr/share/man/man9/apush_vml.9
/usr/share/man/man9/autopush.9
/usr/share/man/man9/autopush_add.9
/usr/share/man/man9/autopush_del.9
/usr/share/man/man9/autopush_find.9
/usr/share/man/man9/autopush_search.9
/usr/share/man/man9/autopush_vml.9
/usr/share/man/man9/backq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bcanget.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bcanput.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bcanputnext.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bcid_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bcmp.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bcopy.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufcall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bufcall_id_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bzero.9
/usr/share/man/man9/canenable.9
/usr/share/man/man9/canget.9
/usr/share/man/man9/canput.9
/usr/share/man/man9/canputnext.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cdev_count.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cdev_find.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cdev_match.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cdev_minor.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cdev_str.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cdevsw.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cdevsw_list.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cdevsw_lock.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cdrv_get.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cdrv_put.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cmaj_add.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cmaj_del.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cmaj_get.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cmin_add.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cmin_count.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cmin_del.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cmin_find.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cmin_get.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cmin_ini.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cmin_rel.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cmn_err.9
/usr/share/man/man9/copyb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/copyin.9
/usr/share/man/man9/copymsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/copyout.9
/usr/share/man/man9/copyreq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/copyresp.9
/usr/share/man/man9/cred_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/ctlmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/datab.9
/usr/share/man/man9/datamsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/dblk_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/delay.9
/usr/share/man/man9/devnode.9
/usr/share/man/man9/dev_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/do_fattach.9
/usr/share/man/man9/do_fdetach.9
/usr/share/man/man9/do_spipe.9
/usr/share/man/man9/drv_getparm.9
/usr/share/man/man9/drv_hztomsec.9
/usr/share/man/man9/drv_hztousec.9
/usr/share/man/man9/drv_msectohz.9
/usr/share/man/man9/drv_priv.9
/usr/share/man/man9/drv_usectohz.9
/usr/share/man/man9/drv_usecwait.9
/usr/share/man/man9/dupb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/dupmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/enableok.9
/usr/share/man/man9/enableq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/esballoc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/esbbcall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/flushband.9
/usr/share/man/man9/flushq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/fmod_add.9
/usr/share/man/man9/fmod_count.9
/usr/share/man/man9/fmod_del.9
/usr/share/man/man9/fmod_find.9
/usr/share/man/man9/fmod_get.9
/usr/share/man/man9/fmod_put.9
/usr/share/man/man9/fmod_str.9
/usr/share/man/man9/fmodsw.9
/usr/share/man/man9/fmodsw_list.9
/usr/share/man/man9/fmodsw_lock.9
/usr/share/man/man9/freeb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/freelk.9
/usr/share/man/man9/freemsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/freeq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/freestr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/freezestr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/frtn_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/getadmin.9
/usr/share/man/man9/getmajor.9
/usr/share/man/man9/getmid.9
/usr/share/man/man9/getminor.9
/usr/share/man/man9/getq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/insq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/iocblk.9
/usr/share/man/man9/isdatablk.9
/usr/share/man/man9/isdatamsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/kmem_alloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/kmem_alloc_node.9
/usr/share/man/man9/kmem_free.9
/usr/share/man/man9/kmem_zalloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/kmem_zalloc_node.9
/usr/share/man/man9/linkb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/linkblk.9
/usr/share/man/man9/linkmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/major_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/makedevice.9
/usr/share/man/man9/max.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mblk_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/min.9
/usr/share/man/man9/minor_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/modID_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/module_info.9
/usr/share/man/man9/module_stat.9
/usr/share/man/man9/module_stat_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/msgb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/msgdsize.9
/usr/share/man/man9/msgpullup.9
/usr/share/man/man9/msgsize.9
/usr/share/man/man9/noenable.9
/usr/share/man/man9/pcmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/pullupmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/put.9
/usr/share/man/man9/putbq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/putctl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/putctl1.9
/usr/share/man/man9/putctl2.9
/usr/share/man/man9/putnext.9
/usr/share/man/man9/putnextctl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/putnextctl1.9
/usr/share/man/man9/putnextctl2.9
/usr/share/man/man9/putq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qattach.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qbackenable.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qband.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qband_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qclose.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qcountstrm.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qdelete.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qdetach.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qenable.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qfields.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qfields_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qi_putp_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qi_qadmin_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qi_qclose_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qi_qopen_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qi_srvp_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qi_putp.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qi_qadmin.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qi_qclose.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qinit.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qi_qopen.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qi_srvp.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qinsert.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qopen.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qprocsoff.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qprocson.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qready.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qreply.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qscan.9
/usr/share/man/man9/qsize.9
/usr/share/man/man9/queue.9
/usr/share/man/man9/queue_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/register_clone.9
/usr/share/man/man9/register_cmajor.9
/usr/share/man/man9/register_ioctl32.9
/usr/share/man/man9/register_strdev.9
/usr/share/man/man9/register_strdrv.9
/usr/share/man/man9/register_strmod.9
/usr/share/man/man9/register_strnod.9
/usr/share/man/man9/register_strlog.9
/usr/share/man/man9/rmvb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/rmvq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/runqueues.9
/usr/share/man/man9/sd_get.9
/usr/share/man/man9/sd_put.9
/usr/share/man/man9/sdev_add.9
/usr/share/man/man9/sdev_del.9
/usr/share/man/man9/sdev_get.9
/usr/share/man/man9/sdev_ini.9
/usr/share/man/man9/sdev_put.9
/usr/share/man/man9/sdev_rel.9
/usr/share/man/man9/sealloc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/sefree.9
/usr/share/man/man9/setq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/setsq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/setqsched.9
/usr/share/man/man9/skballoc.9
/usr/share/man/man9/spec_open.9
/usr/share/man/man9/spec_reparent.9
/usr/share/man/man9/specfs_mount.9
/usr/share/man/man9/specfs_umount.9
/usr/share/man/man9/streamtab.9
/usr/share/man/man9/streamtab_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strgetpmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strlog.9
/usr/share/man/man9/str_close.9
/usr/share/man/man9/str_open.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strm_f_ops.9
/usr/share/man/man9/stroptions.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strputpmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strqget.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strqset.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strrput.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strthread.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strthreads.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strwput.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strwsrv.9
/usr/share/man/man9/sysctl_str_nstrpush.9
/usr/share/man/man9/sysctl_str_strctlsz.9
/usr/share/man/man9/sysctl_str_strmsgsz.9
/usr/share/man/man9/testb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/timeout.9
/usr/share/man/man9/timeout_id_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/timo_fcn_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/toid_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/unbufcall.9
/usr/share/man/man9/unfreezestr.9
/usr/share/man/man9/unlinkb.9
/usr/share/man/man9/unlinkmsg.9
/usr/share/man/man9/unregister_clone.9
/usr/share/man/man9/unregister_cmajor.9
/usr/share/man/man9/unregister_ioctl32.9
/usr/share/man/man9/unregister_strdev.9
/usr/share/man/man9/unregister_strdrv.9
/usr/share/man/man9/unregister_strmod.9
/usr/share/man/man9/unregister_strnod.9
/usr/share/man/man9/untimeout.9
/usr/share/man/man9/unweldq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/vcmn_err.9
/usr/share/man/man9/vstrlog.9
/usr/share/man/man9/vstrlog_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/weld_arg_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/weld_fcn_t.9
/usr/share/man/man9/weldq.9
/usr/share/man/man9/xmsgsize.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bcangetany.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bcanputany.9
/usr/share/man/man9/bcanputnextany.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strioctl.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strpoll.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strread.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strsendpage.9
/usr/share/man/man9/strwrite.9
/usr/share/man/man9/DDI.9
/usr/share/man/man9/Intro.9
/usr/share/man/man9/mp-streams.9
/usr/share/man/man9/SPG.9
/usr/share/info
/usr/share/info/STREAMS.info
/usr/share/info/STREAMS.info-1
/usr/share/info/STREAMS.info-2
/usr/share/info/porting.info
/usr/share/info/STREAMS_FAQ.info
/usr/share/info/SPG2.info
/usr/share/info/SPG2.info-1
/usr/share/info/SPG2.info-2
/etc
/etc/streams.conf
/etc/strsetup.conf
/etc/strload.conf
/etc/default
/etc/default/specfs
/etc/default/streams
/etc/default/strace
/etc/default/strerr
/etc/init.d
/etc/init.d/specfs.sh
/etc/init.d/streams.sh
/etc/init.d/strace.sh
/etc/init.d/strerr.sh
/etc/modutils
/lib
/lib/modules
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/specfs.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_fifo.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_sad.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_nsdev.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_echo.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_mux.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_nuls.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_pipe.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_log.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_loop.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_sfx.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_spx.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_bufmod.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_nullmod.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_pipemod.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_connld.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_sc.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/streams/streams_testmod.ko
@end ignore
