@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: utilities.texi,v 0.9.2.2 2007/02/28 06:30:56 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/28 06:30:56 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@menu
* strchg Utility::
* strconf Utility::
* strreset Utility::

* autopush Utility::
* fattach Utility::
* fdetach Utility::
* insf Utility::
* scls Utility::
* strace Utility::
* strclean Utility::
* streams_mknod Utility::
* strerr Utility::
* strinfo Utility::
* strload Utility::
* strsetup Utility::
* strvf Utility::

* perftest Utility::
* perftestn Utility::

* test-clone Utility::
* test-connld Utility::
* test-echo Utility::
* test-fifo Utility::
* test-log Utility::
* test-loop Utility::
* test-mux Utility::
* test-nsdev Utility::
* test-nuls Utility::
* test-pipe Utility::
* test-pipemod Utility::
* test-sad Utility::
* test-sc Utility::
* test-streams Utility::
@end menu

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node strchg Utility
@subsection strchg

@subheading NAME
@command{strchg} - changes @dfn{Stream} configuration

@subheading SYNOPSIS
@command{strchg} [@var{options}] @{@option{-h}|@option{--push}@} @var{module}[,@var{module} ...] @*
@command{strchg} [@var{options}] @{@option{-p}|@option{--pop}@} [@{@option{-a}|@option{--all}@} | @{@option{-u}|@option{--upto}@} @var{module}] @*
@command{strchg} [@var{options}] @{@option{-f}|@option{--file}@} @var{filename} @*
@command{strchg} @{@option{-H}|@option{--help}@} @*
@command{strchg} @{@option{-V}|@option{--version}@} @*
@command{strchg} @{@option{-C}|@option{--copying}@} @*

@subheading DESCRIPTION
The @command{strchg} command is used to alter the configuration of the @dfn{Stream} associated with
the caller's standard input.  The @command{strchg} command pushes modules on the @dfn{Stream}, pops
modules off of the @dfn{Stream}, or both.  Only the root user or owner of the @dfn{STREAMS} device
can alter the configuration of that @dfn{Stream}.  If another user attempts to alter the
configuration, the @command{strchg} command will fail.

@subheading OPTIONS
@table @asis

@item @option{-h}, @option{--push} @var{module}[,@var{module} ...]

@item @option{-p}, @option{--pop}
Pops a @var{module} off of a @dfn{Stream}.  Used along, the @option{-p} option pops the topmost
@var{module} from the @dfn{Stream}.  May also be combined with the @option{-u} or @option{-a}
options below.

@table @asis
@item @option{-a}, @option{--all}
Pops all modules above the topmost driver off of a @dfn{Stream}.  The @option{-p} option must be
used in front of the @option{-a} flag.

@item @option{-u}, @option{--upto} @var{module}
Pops all modules above the specified @var{module} off of a @dfn{Stream}.  The @option{-p} option
must be used in front of the @option{-u} flag.

@end table

@item @option{-f}, @option{--file} @var{filename}
Pushes and pops the necessary modules to conform the @dfn{Stream} to the configuration given in the
file corresponding to the specified @var{filename}.

@end table

Only one of @option{-h}, @option{-p} or @option{-f} options may be specified.

The following options are non-portable:

@table @asis

@item @option{-d}, @option{--debug} [@var{level}]
Increases or sets to @var{level} the debug verbosity, typically for debugging purposes.

@item @option{-v}, @option{--verbose} [@var{level}]
Increases or sets to @var{level} the output verbosity, typically for diagnostic purposes.

@item @option{-q}, @option{--quiet}
Suppresses normal output.

@item @option{-H}, @option{--help}
When this option is encountered, @command{strchg} displays usage information on stdout and exits.

@item @option{-V}, @option{--version}
When this option is encountered, @command{strchg} displays version information on stdout and exits.

@item @option{-C}, @option{--copying}
When this option is encountered, @command{strchg} displays copyright and copying information on stdout
and exits.

@end table

@subheading FILE FORMAT
The @command{strchg} configuration file contains a list of modules representing the desired
configuration of the @dfn{Stream}.  Each module must appear on a separate line, where the first name
represents the topmost module and the last name represents the module that is closest to the driver.

@subheading DIAGNOSTICS
On successful completion, the @command{strchg} command returns a value of zero (0).  Otherwise, it
returns a nonzero value and prints an error message indicating usage error, a bad module name, too
many modules to push, failure of a @manpage{streamio(7)} operation on the @dfn{Stream}, or failure
to open the file specified by the @var{filename} argument.

@command{strchg} returns zero on success.  It prints an error mes­ sage and returns non-zero status for
various error conditions, including usage error, bad module name, too many modules to push, failure
of an @manpage{ioctl(2s)} on the @dfn{Stream}, or failure to open file from the @option{-f} option.

@subheading NOTICES
If modules are pushed in the wrong order, the @dfn{Stream} might not function as expected.

If the caller is neither the owner of the @dfn{Stream} nor the superuser, the @command{strchg}
command will fail.

If modules are pushed in the wrong order, one could end up with a @dfn{Stream} that does not
function as expected.  For @dfn{ttys}, if the line discipline modules is not pushed in the correct
place, one could have a terminal that does not respond to any commands.

@subheading FILES
@table @file
@item /usr/bin/strchg
contains the @command{strchg} command.
@end table

@subheading SEE ALSO
@manref{strconf(1)}, @manref{strreset(1)}.

@subheading BUGS
@command{strchg} has no known bugs.

@subheading COMPATIBILITY
SVR 4.2, AIX®, HP-UX®, OSF/1®, Solaris®, SUPER-UX®, UnixWare® and UXP/VP®, with the following
portability considerations:

@itemize --
@item
SVR 4.2 does not document long options.  The use of long options should be avoided by portable
programs.

@item
Options --help and --version are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
--copying, --debug, --verbose and --quiet, OpenSS7 coding standards.
@end itemize

@subheading CONFORMANCE
SVR 4.2;[1] AIX®, HP-UX®, OSF/1®, Solaris®, SUPER-UX®, UnixWare®, and UXP/VP®, documentation.

@subheading HISTORY
@command{strchg} first appeared in SVR 4[2].

@subheading REFERENCES
[1]
SVR 4.2 CR, UNIX® System V Release 4.2 Command Reference Manual, 1992, (Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc., Prentice Hall.

[2]
SVR 4, UNIX® System V Release 4 Programmer's Manual, 1990, (Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey), AT&T UNIX System Laboratories, Inc., Prentice Hall.

Trademarks mentioned are the property of their owners.

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node strconf Utility
@subsection strconf

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node strreset Utility
@subsection strreset


@c ============================================================================
@c ============================================================================

@page
@node autopush Utility
@subsection autopush

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node fattach Utility
@subsection fattach

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node fdetach Utility
@subsection fdetach

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node insf Utility
@subsection insf

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node scls Utility
@subsection scls

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node strace Utility
@subsection strace

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node strclean Utility
@subsection strclean

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node streams_mknod Utility
@subsection streams_mknod

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node strerr Utility
@subsection strerr

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node strinfo Utility
@subsection strinfo

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node strload Utility
@subsection strload

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node strsetup Utility
@subsection strsetup

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node strvf Utility
@subsection strvf


@c ============================================================================
@c ============================================================================

@page
@node perftest Utility
@subsection perftest

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node perftestn Utility
@subsection perftestn


@c ============================================================================
@c ============================================================================

@page
@node test-clone Utility
@subsection test-clone

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node test-connld Utility
@subsection test-connld

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node test-echo Utility
@subsection test-echo

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node test-fifo Utility
@subsection test-fifo

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node test-log Utility
@subsection test-log

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node test-loop Utility
@subsection test-loop

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node test-mux Utility
@subsection test-mux

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node test-nsdev Utility
@subsection test-nsdev

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node test-nuls Utility
@subsection test-nuls

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node test-pipe Utility
@subsection test-pipe

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node test-pipemod Utility
@subsection test-pipemod

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node test-sad Utility
@subsection test-sad

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node test-sc Utility
@subsection test-sc

@c ============================================================================

@page
@node test-streams Utility
@subsection test-streams

@c ============================================================================
