@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.15 2007/03/04 12:20:54 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/04 12:20:54 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @*
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.2::		Release 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1::		Release 1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

Major features since the last internal release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Improvements to the common build environment with better support for standalone
package builds on 2.4 kernels.

@item
Support for autoconf 2.61 and gettext 0.16.

@item
Support for Ubuntu 6.10 distribution and bug fixes for i386 kernels.

@item
The package now looks for other subpackages with a version number as unpacked by
separate tarball.

@end itemize

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs and
builds RPMs and DEBs for a wide range of Linux 2.4 and 2.6 RPM- and DPKG-based
distributions, and can be used on production kernels without patching or
recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released under the @cite{GNU General Public License
Version 2}.  The release is available as an @command{autoconf} tarball, SRPM,
DSC, and set of binary RPMs and DEBs.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html,downloads page} for the
@command{autoconf} tarballs, SRPMs and DSCs.  For tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and
binary RPMs and DEBs, see the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html,@value{PACKAGE} package
page}.

See
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog}
and @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS}
in the release for more information.  Also, see the @file{@value{PACKAGE}.pdf}
manual in the release (also in html
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html}).

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.2
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.2

@itemize -
@item
Support for most recent 2.6.18 kernels (including Fedora Core 5 with inode
diet patch set).

@item
Now builds 32-bit compatibility libraries and tests them against 64-bit kernel
modules and drivers.  The @samp{make installcheck} target will now automatically
test both 64-bit native and 32-bit compatibility versions, one after the other,
on 64-bit platforms.

@item
Added versions to all library symbols.

@item
Many documentation updates for all @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7}
packages.  Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and
timely text documentation present in the release directory.

@item
Dropped support for @cite{LiS}.

@item
Package will now support extended ranges of minor devices on 2.6 kernels under
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} only.

@item
Better detection of SUSE distributions, release numbers and SLES distributions:
support for additional @cite{SuSE} distributions on @code{ix86} as well as
@code{x86_64}.  Added distribution support includes @cite{SLES 9}, @cite{SLES 9
SP2}, @cite{SLES 9 SP3}, @cite{SLES 10}, @cite{SuSE 10.1}.

@item
Improved compiler flag generation and optimizations for recent @command{gcc}
compilers and some idiosyncratic behaviour for some distributions (primarily
SUSE).

@item
Optimized compilation is now available also for user level programs in addition
to kernel programs.  Added new @option{--with-optimize} option to
@command{configure} to accomplish this.

@item
Added @command{--disable-devel} @command{configure} option to suppress building
and installing development environment.  This feature is for embedded or pure
runtime targets that do not need the development environment (static libraries,
manual pages, documentation).

@item
Added @command{send-pr} script for automatic problem report generation.
@end itemize
@ignore

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs and builds RPMs and DEBs
for a wide range of Linux 2.4 and 2.6 RPM- and DPKG-based distributions, and can be used on
production kernels without patching or recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released under the @cite{GNU General Public License Version 2}.
The release is available as an @command{autoconf} tarball, SRPM, DSC, and set of binary RPMs and
DEBs.  See the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html,downloads page} for the @command{autoconf}
tarballs, SRPMs and DSCs.  For tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and binary RPMs and DEBs, see the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html,@value{PACKAGE} package page}.

See @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog} and
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS} in the release for more
information.  Also, see the @file{@value{PACKAGE}.pdf} manual in the release (also in html
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html}).
@end ignore

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1

Initial autoconf/RPM packaging of the @command{@value{PACKAGE}} release.

This is the initial release of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package for
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  The ability to include pre-compiled STREAMS binaries
was formerly part of the @cite{Linux STREAMS} package, however, as the ability
is also applicable to @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}, it was removed into a separate
package.  Once @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} is production grade, this binary
compatibility suite will be rolled back into the streams package as @cite{LiS}
is deprecated.

