@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: todo.texi,v 0.9.2.3 2007/06/22 00:18:33 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/06/22 00:18:33 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@subsubheading Current Plan

The OpenSS7 Project has made several stabs at making this package available and providing it in a
production grade form.  All attempts are currently incomplete.  All in all there does not appear to
be sufficient interest in this capability to actually fund the work.  Therefore, this package will
remain incomplete until some entity can justify funding the remainder of the development.  The
OpenSS7 Project remains committed to the open source model and providing this support runs somewhat
against that.  However, if your organization has a pressing need for this capability and can offer
funding for its completion, please contact the project on the openss7 mailing list.

@subsubheading Things to Do

@itemize @minus
@item
Testing.  This package is completely untested.  One way to test LiS compatibility is to take a set
of frozen binary modules and drivers from the LiS release and place them in a test directory.

@item
The strbcm package is currently incomplete.  The purpose of the package was to move STREAMS binary
compatibility module capabilities outside of the STREAMS release package so as to allow them to be
used with both LiS and Linux Fast-STREAMS.  As Linux Fast-STREAMS has already shown superior to LiS
in terms of both performance and conformance, it is no longer necessary to keep these packages
separate and they can be combined once again (or still) with Linux Fast-STREAMS.

This package; however, might has some use still outside of Linux Fast-STREAMS if only because it
provides a separable way of incorporating 3rd party binary modules.
@end itemize
