@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: descrip.texi,v 0.9.2.6 2007/06/23 01:38:22 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/06/23 01:38:22 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@cite{UNIX} has traditionally provided three components of the Network Services Library,
@file{libnsl}, two of which are associated with the X/Open Transport Interface/Transport Layer
Interface (XTI/TLI), @file{libxnet}, the Transport Provider Interface (TPI), and @dfn{STREAMS}
network pseudo-device drivers.  Two components provide the TI (Transport Independent) interface,
whereas the other provides the TS (Transport Sockets) interface.  The TI components provide the
Transport Independent RPC services (TI-RPC) pioneered by Sun Microsystems and subsequently
standardized by the IETF.

@cite{GNU/Linux} @file{glibc} provides (among other things) the RPC interface library and the
TS-RPC and BSD 4.3 sockets address translation facilities in @file{libc}, and provides NIS
capabilities in @file{libnsl}.  @dfn{STREAMS} related components that are not currently part of the
@cite{Linux} Network Services Library (@file{libnsl}) are:

@enumerate
@item Network Selection, consisting of:

@itemize @bullet
@item Network Configuration database access, @manref{netconfig(3)}, and,
@item Network Path access, @manref{netpath(3)}.
@end itemize

@item Name-to-Address Translation, @manref{netdir(3)}.
@end enumerate

These are often referred to as the Network Selection facility of the Network Services Library.
The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides a library, renamed @file{libxnsl}, that provides
the missing Network Selection and Name-to-Address mapping facilities designed to work with
@manref{xti(3)}.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package contains header files and the associated documentation that
were originally contained in the @file{strxnet} package.  This library was quickly removed from the
@file{strxnet} distribution and placed in its own add-on package.

The package contains the following standard @cite{SVR 4.2} conforming header files:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<netconfig.h>} @cite{Network Configuration}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<sys/netconfig.h>} @cite{Network Configuration}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<netdir.h>} @cite{Network Directory}
@end multitable

Note that the @cite{XTI/TLI Library} and @cite{Transport Provider Interface} header files are
contained in the @samp{strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}} package.

The package builds and installs the following shared object libraries:

@table @manref
@item xnsl(3)
This is the @cite{X/Open Network Services Library} that contains the Network Selection facility for
the Network Services Library.

@end table

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package includes @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS} libraries, utilities,
test programs, daemons, and development environment for the development and execution of
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} applications for the @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS} environment.

This distribution is only currently applicable to @cite{Linux} 2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted
at @code{ix86}, @code{x86_64}, @code{ppc} and @code{ppc64} architectures, but should build and
install for other architectures as well.

