% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: libxnsl.texi,v 0.9.2.1 2006/09/25 12:30:52 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (C) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
% Copyright (C) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2006/09/25 12:30:52 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================

\input texinfo
@setfilename libxnsl.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE OpenSS7 XNS Library
@set MANUAL_TYPE Reference Manual
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}

@dircategory GNU libraries
@direntry
* Libxnsl: (libxnsl).           An Open NSL library for STREAMS.
@end direntry

@defindex op

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE OpenSS7 XNS Library
@set MANUAL_TYPE Reference Manual

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file provides the @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of the
@cite{@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2007  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results,
provided the printed document carries copying permission notice identical to
this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this paragraph not being
relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the above conditions for modified versions.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE OpenSS7 XNS Library
@set MANUAL_TYPE Reference Manual

@ignore
@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@end ignore
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <@uref{http://www.openss7.com/}> @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> @*
All Rights Reserved. @*

@noindent
Published by OpenSS7 Corporation @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
This is texinfo edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
documentation, and is consistent with @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME} @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}.
This manual was developed under the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7
Project} and was funded in part by
@uref{http://www.hob.de/, HOB International}.

@noindent
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the same conditions as for modified versions.

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@page

@c Define an index of authors.
@defindex au

@defcodeindex mp
@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@unnumbered About This Manual
This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of @cite{The
@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Acknowledgements::
* Introduction::
* Reference::
* Conformance::
* Multi-Threading::
* Error Handling::
* Installation::
* Bugs::

* Public License::
* Documentation License::

* Concept Index::
* Type Index::
* Function Index::
* Variable Index::
* File Index::

@end menu

@c  --- The Detailed Node Listing ---
@c 
@c Acknowledgements
@c 
@c * Sponsors::                    Sponsors of the XNS Library
@c * Contributors::                People who contributed to development of the XNS Library
@c 
@c Reference
@c 
@c * Overview::                    An overview of XNS Functions and Header Files
@c * XNS Function Reference::      Reference manual of XNS Functions
@c * XNS Header File Reference::   Reference manual of XNS Header Files
@c 
@c XNS Function Reference
@c 
@c * getnetconfig::		Get network configuration database entry.
@c 
@c XNS Header File Reference
@c 
@c * netconfig::			Network Configuration header file.

@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Acknowledgements
@unnumbered Acknowledgements
@cindex credits

@raisesections
@include texi/funding.texi
@lowersections

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction to the XNS Library
@cindex introduction

This manual documents how to run, install and port the OpenSS7 XNS Library,
and how to report bugs.


@node Reference
@chapter Reference
@cpindex reference

@menu
* Overview::                    An overview of XNS Functions and Header Files
* XNS Function Reference::      Reference manual of XNS Functions
* XNS Header File Reference::   Reference manual of XNS Header Files
@end menu

@node Overview
@section Overview
@cpindex overview

@node XNS Function Reference
@section XNS Function Reference
@cpindex functions

@menu
* Network Configuration::	Network configuration functions.
* Network Path::		Network path functions.
* Network Directory::		Network directory functions.
@end menu

@page
@node Network Configuration
@subsection Network Configuration

@menu
* setnetconfig::		bind to or rewind netconfig database.
* getnetconfig::		get next entry from netconfig database.
* endnetconfig::		unbind from netconfig database.
* getnetconfigent::		get netconfig database entry by network id.
* freenetconfigent::		free netconfig database entry.
* nc_perror::			print netconfig database error to standard error.
* nc_sperror::			retrieve netconfig database error string.
@end menu

@subsubheading Name

@strong{netconfig} - network configuration database subroutines

@subsubheading Synopsis
@example
#include <netconfig.h>

void *setnetconfig(void);
struct netconfig *getnetconfig(void *@var{handle});
int endnetconfig(void *@var{handle});
struct netconfig *getnetconfigent(const char *@var{netid});
void freenetconfigent(struct netconfig *@var{netconfig});
void nc_perror(const char *@var{msg});
char *nc_sperror(void);
@end example

@subsubheading Arguments

@vtable @var
@item handle
an opaque pointer returned by @manpage{setnetconfig(3)} to be used as an
argument to calls to @manpage{getnetconfig(3)}.

@item netid
A network identifier string.  This should match one of the network identifier
strings from the @manpage{netconfig(5)} file.

@item netconfig
A pointer to a @type{netconfig} structure returned from
@manpage{getnetconfigenet()} to be freed by @manpage{freenetconfigent(3)}.

@item msg
A short messages string to prefix to the error message printed to standard
error by the @manpage{nc_perror(3)} subroutine.

@end vtable

@subsubheading Description

@cite{UNIX} has traditionally provided three components of the Network
Services Library, @file{libnsl}, that are associated with the Trasnport
Provider Interface (TPI), @manpage{tpi(7)}, @dfn{STREAMS} network
pseudo-device drivers, and that are not currently part of the @cite{Linux}
Network Services Library.  These components are:

@enumerate
@item Network Configuration database access, @manpage{netconfig(3)},
@item Netowrk Path access, @manpage{netpath(3)}, and,
@item Network Directory and address mapping, @manpage{netdir(3)}.
@end enumerate

These are often collectively refered to as the Network Selection facility of
the Network Services Library.

@manpage{setnetconfig(3)}, @manpage{getnetconfig(3)},
@manpage{endnetconfig(3)}, @manpage{getnetconfigent(3)},
@manpage{freenetconfigent(3)}, @manpage{nc_perror(3)} and
@manpage{nc_sperror(3)}, provide a set of Network Configuration database
access subroutines for accessing the Network Configuration database.

@manpage{setnetconfig(3)}, @manpage{getnetconfig(3)} and
@manpage{endnetconfig(3)} provide a mechanism to sequentially access each
entry in the Network Configuration database.

@table @manpage

@item setnetconfig(3)
Returns a pointer to an opaque data structure used as a handle to the
@manpage{getnetconfig(3)} subroutine.  @manpage{setnetconfig(3)} is used to
initialize client access to the database entries and set the access point to
the first entry.

@item getnetconfig(3)
When called successively with the @var{handle} returned by the call to
@manpage{setnetconfig(3)}, returns each Network Configuration database entry
starting with the first.  When no additional entries remain that have not
already been retrieved since the call to @manpage{setnetconfig(3)},
@manpage{getnetconfig(3)} returns a @var{NULL} pointer to indicate that the
end of the database has been reached.

@item endnetconfig(3)
Releases client access to the database and frees for reuse any resources that
were held by @manpage{setnetconfig(3)} for use by @manpage{getnetconfig(3)}.
@manpage{endnetconfig(3)} must only be called with a @var{handle} returned
from a previous and corresponding call to @manpage{setnetconfig(3)}.
@manpage{endnetconfig(3)} must be called for each call to
@manpage{setnetconfig(3)} with the corresponding @var{handle} pointer as the
argument.

@end table

@manpage{getnetconfigent(3)} and
@manpage{freenetconfigent(3)} provide a mechanism to access Network
Configuration database entries by network identification name strings.

@table @manpage
@item getnetconfigent(3)
Returns a pointer to the @type{netconfig} struture corresponding to the
network configuration entry with the same network identification name as that
supplied in the @var{netid} argument.

@item freenetconfigent(3)
Frees the network configuration entry returned as a pointer to a
@type{netconfig} structure, from a previous call to
@manpage{getnetconfigent(3)}.  @manpage{freenetconfigent(3)} must be called
for each call to @manpage{getnetconfigent(3)} with the corresponding
@var{netconfig} pointer as the argument.

@end table

@manpage{nc_perror(3)} and @manpage{nc_sperror(3)} provide a mechanism for
providing diagnostic messages upon failure.  These subroutines can be used
both for these @manpage{netconfig(3)} subroutines, as well as the
@manpage{netpath(3)} subroutines.

@table @manpage
@item nc_perror(3)
Prints a diagnostic message to standard error with the string provided in the
@var{msg} argument used as a prefix followed by a colon.  Diagnostic messages
printed to standard error are followed by a NEWLINE.

@item nc_sperror(3)
Similar to @manpage{nc_perror(3)}, but, instead of printing the message to
standard error, only a pointer to the diagnostic message string is returned.
This allows the caller to subsequently format and store a message according to
the caller's specifications.

@end table

@subsubheading File Format

The format of the @file{/etc/netconfig} Network Configuration database file is
as described in @manpage{netconfig(5)}.

@subsubheading Database Structure

The @type{netconfig} structure is defined in @file{netconfig.h} as follows:
@smallexample
struct netconfig @{
    char *nc_netid;      /* network id string */
    ulong nc_semantics;  /* service interface semantics */
    ulong nc_flag;       /* flags */
    char *nc_protofmly;  /* protocol family string */
    char *nc_proto;      /* protocol name string */
    char *nc_device;     /* STREAMS device path */
    ulong nc_nlookups;   /* num. of name-to-address libs */
    char **nc_lookups;   /* name-to-address libraries */
    ulong nc_unused[9];  /* reserved for future use */
@};
@end smallexample

Where the members of the @type{netconfig} structure are as follows:

@table @member
@item nc_netid
The network identifier string defined by the system administrator and unique
to each entry in the network configuration database file.

@item nc_semantics
The semantics describing the service interface of the associated @dfn{STREAMS}
transport service provider.  @member{nc_semantics} can take on one of the
following values:

@table @var
@item NC_TPI_CLTS
Transport Provider interface, @manpage{tpi(7)}, Connectionless Transport
Service.

@item NC_TPI_COTS
Transport Provider interface, @manpage{tpi(7)}, Connection-Oriented Transport
Service.

@item NC_TPI_COTS_ORD
Transport Provider interface, @manpage{tpi(7)}, Connection-Oriented Transport
Service with Orderly Release.

@item NC_TPI_RAW
Transport Provider interface, @manpage{tpi(7)}, Raw Transport Service.

@end table

@item nc_flag
Flags associated with the transport entry.  @member{nc_flag} can take on one of
the following values:

@table @var
@item NC_NOFLAG
No option flag is indicated.

@item NC_VISIBLE
The visible option flag is indicated.  This means that the network transport
provider is visible to @manpage{getpath(3)} when the @env{NETPATH} environment
variable is not set.

@item NC_BROADCAST
The broadcast option flag is indicated.  This means that the network transport
provider supports broadcast addresses, and in particular, the
@var{HOST_BROADCAST} universal address described in
@manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)}.

@item NC_MULTICAST
The multicast option flag is indicated.  This means that the network transport
provider supports multicast addresses, and in particular, the
@var{HOST_ALLNODES} and @var{HOST_RPCNODES} universal addresses described in
@manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)}.

@end table

@item nc_protofmly
The protocol family string assigned by the system adminstrator.

@item nc_proto
The protocol string assigned by the system administrator.

@item nc_device
The device path to a @dfn{STREAMS} @manpage{clone(4)} device that provides
access to the associated transport provider.

@item nc_nlookups
The number of name to address translation libraries.

@item nc_lookups
An array of address translation libraries.  The number of strings contained in
this array is specified with the @member{nc_nlookups} field.

@item nc_unused
Unused bytes reserved for future expansion.

@end table

@subsubheading Caveats

@manpage{nc_perror(3)} and @manpage{nc_sperror(3)} must be called immediately
after the failed network configuration subroutine fails.  Otherwise, the error
condition may be lost.

@subsubheading Return Value

Upon successful completion, @manpage{setnetconfig(3)} returns an opaque
pointer for use in the @manpage{getnetconfig(3)} call.  Otherwise,
@var{NULL} is returned and @manpage{nc_error(3)} is set to indicate the error.

Upon successful completion, @manpage{endnetconfig(3)} returns @samp{0}.  Otherwise,
@samp{-1} is returned and @manpage{nc_error(3)} is set to indicate the error.
A diagnostic string can be printed to standard error or accesed using the
@manpage{nc_perror(3)} or @manpage{nc_sperror(3)} subroutines.

Upon successful completion, @manpage{nc_sperror(3)} returns a pointer to a
string describing the error condition.  (Note that this subroutine can also be
used for @manpage{netpath(3)} subroutines.) Otherwise, @var{NULL} is returned.

Upon successful completion, @manpage{getnetconfig(3)} and
@manpage{getnetconfigent(3)} return a pointer to a @type{netconfig} structure.
Otherwise, they return @var{NULL} to indicate failure.

@subsubheading Error Handling

When an error occurs, an error message can be printed to standard error or
retrieved using @manpage{nc_perror(3)} or @manpage{nc_sperror(3)}.

@subsubheading Errors

The @manpage{setnetconfig(3)} subroutine will fail, and return a @var{NULL}
pointer, if: an error was encountered opening the Network Configuration
database, @file{/etc/netconfig}, see @manpage{netconfig(5)}.

The @manpage{getnetconfig(3)} subroutine will fail, and return a @var{NULL}
pointer, if: no entries exist in the Network Configuration database; or, the
last entry in the Network Configuration database has been read with a previous
call to @manpage{getnetconfig(3)} and there are no more entries in the Network
Configuration database.

The @manpage{endnetconfig(3)} subroutine will fail if: the passed in
@var{handle} argument is invalid; or, @manpage{endnetconfig(3)} has already
been called for the @var{handle} argument.

The passed in @var{handle} argument is only invalid when there is not a
subsequent, corresponding call to @manpage{setnetconfig(3)}.

The @manpage{getnetconfigent(3)} subroutine will fail, and return a @var{NULL}
pointer, if: the Network Configuration database does not exist; or, no entries
exist in the Network Configuration database for the passed in @var{netid}
string.

The @manpage{freenetconfigent(3)} subroutine will fail silently if: passed a
@var{NULL} or invalid pointer; or, pass a pointer that was previously passed
to @manpage{freenetconfigent(3)}.

The @manpage{nc_perror(3)} subroutine will fail silently if: standard error is
closed; or, @var{msg} is an invalid pointer.

The @manpage{nc_sperror(3)} subroutine will fail, and return a @var{NULL}
pointer, if: no error exists.

The following errors can be returned:

@vtable @error
@item NC_NOERROR
"@i{no error}" @*
The last network selection function called was successful or no network
selection function has yet been called.

@item NC_NOMEM
"@i{out of memory}" @*
There was not sufficient memory for the last network selection function called
to complete.

@item NC_NOSET
"@i{routine called before calling setnetpath() or setnetconfig()}" @*
The last call to @manpage{endnetconfig(3)} or @manpage{getnetconfig(3)} was
called (incorrectly) before calling @manpage{setnetconfig(3)}.

@item NC_OPENFAIL
"@i{cannot open /etc/netconfig}" @*
The last call to a network selection function, @manpage{setnetconfig(3)},
could not open the @file{/etc/netconfig} file.

@item NC_BADLINE
"@i{error in /etc/netconfig : field %d of line %d}" @*
The last call to a network selection function detected a syntax error in the
@file{/etc/netconfig} file at field %d of line %d.

@item NC_NOTFOUND
"@i{netid not found in /etc/netconfig}" @*
The @var{netid} argument to the last call to @manpage{getnetconfigent(3)} was
not found in @file{/etc/netconfig}.

@item NC_NOMOREENTRIES
"@i{no more entries in /etc/netconfig}" @*
The last call to a network selection function, @manpage{getnetpath(3)},
exhausted the entries in the @file{/etc/netconfig} file.

@item (unknown)
"@i{unknown error}" @*
An internal error occured in the @manpage{libxnsl(3)} library.
@end vtable

An error string associated with the error number can be obtained using
@manpage{nc_sperror(3)} or printed to standard error with
@manpage{nc_perror(3)}.

@subsubheading Files

@table @file

@item /etc/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See @manref{netconfig(5)}.

@item /usr/lib/libxnsl.so
The X/Open Network Services Library shared object library.

@item /usr/lib/libxnsl.a
The X/Open Network Services Library static library.

@end table

@subsubheading See Also

@manref{netconfig(5)},
@manref{netpath(3)},
@manref{netdir(3)},
@refman{netdir_getbyname},
@cite{RFC 1833}.

@subsubheading Bugs

@manpage{setnetconfig(3)},
@manpage{getnetconfig(3)},
@manpage{endnetconfig(3)},
@manpage{getnetconfigent(3)},
@manpage{freenetconfigent(3)},
@manpage{nc_perror(3)} and
@manpage{nc_sperror(3)},
have no known bugs.

@subsubheading Compatibility

These network configuration subroutines are compatible with @cite{SVR 4.2},
and systems based on @cite{SVR 4.2}, including @cite{AIX}, @cite{HP-UX},
@cite{Solaris} and @cite{UnixWare}, with the following compatibility
considerations:

@itemize --

@item @cite{Solaris} and @cite{UnixWare} describe the @manpage{nc_sperror(3)}
subroutine as returning a pointer to thread-specific data and that the buffer
could change at any point.  While the error value is saved as thread-specific
data, this implementation of @manpage{nc_sperror(3)} will return a pointer to
a shared read-only string that is valid for the duration of the calling
process.

@item @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} stores the error condition in
@manpage{nc_error(3)}.

@item Diagnostic messages are not documented and are incompatible.

@item Binary compatibility would only be coincidental.

@item On @cite{UNIX} systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of
the Network Services Library, @file{libnsl}; however, @cite{Linux} already has
a library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these components), and,
therefore, @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} renames the library to
@manpage{libxnsl(3)}.

@end itemize

See @manref{libxnsl(3)} for additional compatiblity information.

@subsubheading Conforming To

@cite{SVR 4.2}.

@subsubheading History

The network selection subroutines first appeared in @cite{SVR 4.2}.  These
subroutines are related to the @cite{UNIX} @dfn{STREAMS} implementation of
network transport providers.

@page
@node setnetconfig
@unnumberedsubsubsec setnetconfig
@fnindex setnetconfig

@subsubheading Name

@strong{setnetconfig} - bind to or rewind the network selection database

@subsubheading Synopsis
@example
#include <netconfig.h>

void *setnetconfig(void);
@end example

@subsubheading Arguments

None.

@subsubheading Description

@cite{UNIX} has traditionally provided three components of the Network
Services Library, @file{libnsl}, that are associated with Transport Provider
Interface (TPI), @manpage{tpi(7)}, @dfn{STREAMS} network pseudo-device
drivers, and that are not currently part of the @cite{Linux} Network Services
Library.  These components are:

@enumerate
@item Netwock Configuration database access, @manref{netconfig(3)},
@item Network Patch access, @manref{netpath(3)}, and,
@item Name-to-Address Translation, @manref{netdir(3)}.
@end enumerate

The first two are often referred to as the Network Selection facility of the
Network Services Library.

The @manpage{netconfig(3)} component (of which @command{setnetconfig()} is a
member) consists of an interface that provides a set of Network Configuration
database access subroutines for accessing the Network Configuration database
contained in @file{/etc/netconfig}, @manref{netconfig(5)}, file:
@manpage{setnetconfig(3)}, @manpage{getnetconfig(3)},
@manpage{endnetconfig(3)}, @manpage{getnetconfigent(3)},
@manpage{freenetconfigent(3)}, @manpage{nc_perror(3)} and
@manpage{nc_sperror(3)}.

Of these, @manpage{setnetconfig(3)}, @manpage{getnetconfig(3)},
@manpage{endnetconfig(3)}, provide a mechanism to sequentially access each
entry in the Network Configuration database.

@manpage{setnetconfig(3)} returns a pointer to an oqaque datastructure used as
a handle to the @manpage{getnetconfig(3)} subroutine.
@manpage{setnetconfig(3)} is used to initialize client access to the database
entries and set the access point to the first entry.

@manpage{nc_perror(3)} and @manpage{nc_sperror(3)} provide a mechanism for
providing diagnostic messages upon failure.  These subroutines can be used for
this @strong{setnetconfig} subrouting, as well as the @manpage{netpath(3)}
subroutines.

@subsubheading File Format

The format of the @file{/etc/netconfig} Network Configuration database file is
as described in @manref{netconfig(5)}.

@subsubheading Caveats

@manpage{nc_perror(3)} and @manpage{nc_sperror(3)} must be called immediately
after the failed network configuration subroutine fails.  Otherwise, the error
condition may be lost.

@subsubheading Return Value

Upon successful completion, @manpage{setnetconfig(3)} returns an opaque
pointer for use in the @manpage{getnetconfig(3)} call.  Otherwise, @var{NULL}
is returned and @manpage{nc_error(3)} is set to indicate the error.

@subsubheading Errors

When @manpage{setnetconfig(3)} failes, it returns @var{NULL} and sets
@manpage{nc_error(3)} to one of the following error numbers:

@vtable @error
@item NC_NOERROR
"@i{no error}" @*
The last network selection function called was successful or no network
selection function has yet been called.

@item NC_NOMEM
"@i{out of memory}" @*
There was not sufficient memory for the last network selection function called
to complete.

@item NC_NOSET
"@i{routine called before calling setnetpath() or setnetconfig()}" @*
The last call to @manpage{endnetconfig(3)} or @manpage{getnetconfig(3)} was
called (incorrectly) before calling @manpage{setnetconfig(3)}.

@item NC_OPENFAIL
"@i{cannot open /etc/netconfig}" @*
The last call to a network selection function, @manpage{setnetconfig(3)},
could not open the @file{/etc/netconfig} file.

@item NC_BADLINE
"@i{error in /etc/netconfig : field %d of line %d}" @*
The last call to a network selection function detected a syntax error in the
@file{/etc/netconfig} file at field %d of line %d.

@item NC_NOTFOUND
"@i{netid not found in /etc/netconfig}" @*
The @var{netid} argument to the last call to @manpage{getnetconfigent(3)} was
not found in @file{/etc/netconfig}.

@item NC_NOMOREENTRIES
"@i{no more entries in /etc/netconfig}" @*
The last call to a network selection function, @manpage{getnetpath(3)},
exhausted the entries in the @file{/etc/netconfig} file.

@item (unknown)
"@i{unknown error}" @*
An internal error occured in the @manpage{libxnsl(3)} library.
@end vtable

An error string associated with the error number can be obtained using
@manpage{nc_sperror(3)} or printed to standard error with
@manpage{nc_perror(3)}.

@subsubheading Files

@table @file

@item /etc/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See @manref{netconfig(5)}.

@item /usr/lib/libxnsl.so
The X/Open Network Services Library shared object library.

@item /usr/lib/libxnsl.a
The X/Open Network Services Library static library.

@end table

@subsubheading Environment

@table @env
@item NETPATH
This environment variable contains the network path.

@end table


@subsubheading See Also

@refman{getnetconfig},
@refman{endnetconfig},
@manref{netconfig(5)},
@manref{netpath(3)},
@refman{nc_perror},
@refman{nc_sperror},
@manref{netdir(3)},
@cite{RFC 1833}.

@subsubheading Bugs

@manpage{setnetconfig(3)} has no known bugs.

@subsubheading Compatibility

@manpage{setnetconfig(3)} is compatible with @cite{SVR 4.2} and systems based
on @cite{SVR 4.2}, including @cite{AIX}, @cite{HP-UX}, @cite{Solaris} and
@cite{UnixWare}, with the following compatibility considerations:

@itemize --

@item
The @cite{Solaris} TIRPCSRC Version 2.8 version of @manpage{getnetconfig(3)}
is not thread-safe.  This @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} implementation is
thread-safe.

@item
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} stores the error conditions in
@manpage{nc_error(3)}.

@item
Diagnostic message strings are not documented and are incompatible.

@item
Binary compatibility would only be coincidental.

@item
On @cite{UNIX} systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of the
Network Services Library, @file{libnsl}; however, @cite{Linux} already has a
library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these components), and,
therefore, @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} renames the library to @file{libxnsl}.

@end itemize

See @manref{libxnsl(3)} for additional compatibility information.

@subsubheading Conforming To

@cite{SVR 4.2}.

@subsubheading History

The Network Selection subroutines furst appeared in @cite{SVR 4.2}.  These
subroutines are related to the @cite{UNIX} @dfn{STREAMS} implementation of
network transport providers.

@page
@node getnetconfig
@unnumberedsubsubsec getnetconfig
@fnindex getnetconfig

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@page
@node endnetconfig
@unnumberedsubsubsec endnetconfig
@fnindex endnetconfig

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@page
@node getnetconfigent
@unnumberedsubsubsec getnetconfigent
@fnindex getnetconfigent

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@page
@node freenetconfigent
@unnumberedsubsubsec freenetconfigent
@fnindex freenetconfigent

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@page
@node nc_perror
@unnumberedsubsubsec nc_perror
@fnindex nc_perror

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@page
@node nc_sperror
@unnumberedsubsubsec nc_sperror
@fnindex nc_sperror

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@page
@node Network Path
@subsection Network Path

@menu
* setnetpath::			bind to or rewind @var{NETPATH} filtered netconfig database.
* getnetpath::			get next entry from @var{NETPATH} filtered netconfig database.
* endnetpath::			unbind from @var{NETPATH} filtered netconfig database.
@end menu

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@page
@node setnetpath
@unnumberedsubsubsec setnetpath
@fnindex setnetpath

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@page
@node getnetpath
@unnumberedsubsubsec getnetpath
@fnindex getnetpath

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@page
@node endnetpath
@unnumberedsubsubsec endnetpath
@fnindex endnetpath

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@page
@node Network Directory
@subsection Network Directory

@menu
* netdir_getbyname::		lookup address by host and service name.
* netdir_getbyaddr::		lookup host and service names by address.
* netdir_options::		set or clear transport provider options.
* taddr2uaddr::			convert trasnport address to universal address.
* uaddr2taddr::			convert universal address to transport address.
* netdir_free::			free netdir datastructure.
* netdir_perror::		print netdir error to standard error.
* netdir_sperror::		retreive netdir error string.
@end menu

@subsubheading Name

@strong{netdir} - Network Directory service subroutines

@subsubheading Synopsis
@example
#include <netconfig.h>

int netdir_getbyname(struct netconfig *@var{config},
    struct nd_hostserv *@var{service}, struct nd_addrlist **@var{addrs});

int netdir_getbyaddr(struct netconfig *@var{config},
    struct nd_hostservlist **@var{services}, struct netbuf *@var{addr});

int netdir_options(struct netconfig *@var{config},
    int @var{option}, int @var{fd}, char *@var{point_to_args});

char *taddr2uaddr(struct netconfig *@var{config},
    struct netbuf *@var{addr});

struct netbuf *uaddr2taddr(struct netconfig *@var{config},
    struct netbuf *@var{addr});

void netdir_free(void *@var{ptr}, int @var{struct_type});

void netdir_perror(char *@var{msg});

char *netdir_sperror(void);
@end example

@subsubheading Arguments

@table @var
@item config
A pointer to a @type{netconfig} structure describing the network transport
provider returned by @manpage{getnetconfig(3)} or @manpage{getnetpath(3)}.

@item service
A pointer to a @type{nd_hostserv} structure describing the name of a host
service.

@item services
A pointer to a @type{nd_hostservlist} structure array describing the name(s)
of a host service.

@item addr
A pointer to a @type{netbuf} structure containing a transport or universal
address.

@item option
The name of a universal network option.  It can have values as follows:

The following are @cite{Solaris} TI-RPC 2.3 options:

@table @var
@item ND_SET_BROADCAST
Permit use of broadcast address on trasnport endpoint.

@item ND_SET_RESERVED_PORT
Bind to a reserved port on transport endpoint.

@item ND_CHECK_RESERVED_PORT
Check if port in address is reserved.

@item ND_MERGEADDR
Merge underspecified server address with client address.

@item ND_JOIN_MULTICAST
Join a multicast group.

@item ND_LEAVE_MULTICAST
Leave a multicast group.

@end table

The following are @cite{UnixWare} extensions:

@table @var
@item ND_CLEAR_BROADCAST
Prohibit use of broadcast address on transport endpoint.

@item ND_SET_REUSEADDR
Permit reuse of local addresses for transport endpoint.

@item ND_CLEAR_REUSEADDR
Prohibit reuse of local addresses for tansport endpoint.

@end table

The following are @cite{OpenSS7} extensions:

@table @var
@item ND_SET_DONTROUTE
Do not route packets from transport endpoint.

@item ND_CLEAR_DONTROUTE
Route packets from trasnport endpoint.

@item ND_SET_KEEPALIVE
Set keepalive on transport endpoint.

@item ND_CLEAR_KEEPALIVE
Clear keepalive on transport endpoint.

@item ND_SET_PRIORITY
Set priority of transport endpoint.

@end table

@item fd
A file descriptor associated with a transport endpoint of the type associated
with the @var{config} @type{netconfig} structure.

@item point_to_args
A pointer to the argument values associated with @var{option}.

@item ptr
A pointer to a structure to free.

@item struct_type
The structure type to free.  This argument can have values:

@table @var
@item ND_ADDR
@type{netbuf} structure.

@item ND_ADDRLIST
@type{nd_addrlist} structure.

@item ND_HOSTSERV
@type{nd_hostserv} structure.

@item ND_HOSTSERVLIST
@type{nd_hostservlist} structure.

@end table

@item msg
A pointer to a string to prefix to the printed error message (followed by a
colon).

@end table

@subsubheading Description

@cite{UNIX} has traditionally provided three components of the Network
Services Library, @file{libnsl}, that are associated with Transport Provider
Interface, @manpage{tpi(7)}, @dfn{STREAMS} network pseudo-evice drivers, and
that are not currently part of the @cite{Linux} Network Services Library.
These components are:

@enumerate
@item Network Configuration database access, @manpage{netconfig(3)},
@item Network Directory and address mapping, @manpage{netdir(3)}, and
@item Network Path access, @manpage{netpath(3)}.
@end enumerate

These are often referred to collectively as the Network Selection facility of
the Network Services Library.

@subsubheading Database Format

The @type{netconfig} structure is defined in @manpage{netconfig(3)} and
@manpage{netconfig(5)}.

@subsubheading Structure Format

The @type{netbuf} structure is defined in @file{xti.h} and is structured as
follows:

@smallexample
struct netbuf @{
    unsigned int maxlen;
    unsigned int len;
    char *buf;
@};
@end smallexample

@table @asis
@item @member{maxlen}
the maximum length of the supplied buffer, @member{buf}.
@item @member{len}
the length of the filled buffer, @member{buf}.
@item @member{buf}
a pointer to the buffer.
@end table

The @type{nd_addrlist} structure is defined in @file{netconfig.h} and is
structured as follows:

@smallexample
struct nd_addrlist @{
    int n_cnt;               /* number of addresses */
    struct netbuf *n_addrs;  /* the addresses (array) */
@};
@end smallexample

@table @asis
@item @member{n_cnt}
the number of addresses in the list.
@item @member{n_addrs}
a pointer to an array of @type{netbuf} structures forming the address list.
@end table

The @type{nd_hostserv} structure is defined in @file{netconfig.h} and is
structured as follows:

@smallexample
struct nd_hostserv @{
    char *h_name;  /* host name */
    char *h_serv;  /* service name */
@};
@end smallexample

@table @asis
@item @member{h_name}
the host (machine) name.

The following special host names are defined in @file{netdir.h}:

@table @var
@item HOST_SELF
Local host name.
@item HOST_ANY
Any host name.
@item HOST_BROADCAST
All addresses accessible by transport.
@item HOST_SELF_CONNECT
Address for onnecting to the local host.
@item HOST_SELF_BIND
Bind to one's self.
@item HOST_ALLNODES
All nodes (broadcast or rpcbind broadcast).
@item HOST_RPCNODES
All RPC nodes (multicast or rpcbind multicast).
@end table

@item @member{h_serv}
the service name.
@end table

The @type{nd_hostservlist} structure is defined in @file{netconfig.h} and is
structured as follows:

@smallexample
struct nd_hostservlist @{
    int *h_cnt;  /* number of hostservs found */
    struct hostserv *h_hostservs;
@};
@end smallexample

@table @member
@item h_cnt
the number of services in the list.

@item h_hostservs
a pointer to an array of @type{nd_hostserv} structures forming the service
list.

@end table

@subsubheading Caveats

@manpage{netdir_perror(3)} and @manpage{netdir_sperror(3)} must be called
immediately after the failed network configuration subroutine fails.
Otherwise, the error condition may be lost.

@subsubheading Return Value

Upon successful completion, @manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)},
@manpage{netdir_getbyaddr(3)} and @manpage{netdir_options(3)} return @samp{0}.
Otherwise, @samp{-1} is returned and @manpage{_nderror} is set to indicate the
error.

@subsubheading Errors

A name-to-address mapping function will fail if:

@table @error
@item ND_TRY_AGAIN
"@i{n2a: non-authoritative host not found}" @*
The host was not found, however, a name-to-address mapping function suffered a temporary failure
(such as a timeout).

@item ND_NO_RECOVERY
"@i{n2a: non-recoverable error}" @*
The last name-to-address translation function suffered an unrecoverable error in one of its lookup
libraries.

@item ND_NO_DATA
"@i{n2a: no data record of requested type}" @*
The last name-to-address translation function could find no data of the requested type in one of its
lookup libraries.

@item ND_NO_ADDRESS
"@i{n2a: no data record of requested type}" @*
The last name-to-address translation function could find no address of the requested type in one of
its lookup libraries.

@item ND_BADARG
"@i{n2a: bad arguments passed to routine}" @*
The last name-to-address translation function was passed a bad argument.

@item ND_NOMEM
"@i{n2a: memory allocation failed}" @*
The last name-to-address translation function could not allocate memory necessary to complete the
operation.

@item ND_OK
"@i{n2a: successful completion}" @*
The last name-to-address translation function completed successfully, or there was no previous
name-to-address translation function called.

@item ND_NOHOST
"@i{n2a: hostname not found}" @*
The last name-to-address translation function, @manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)},
could not find, or does not support, the specified host name.

@item ND_NOSERV
"@i{n2a: service name not found}" @*
The last name-to-address translation function, @manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)},
could not find, or does not support, the specified service name.

@item ND_NOSYM
"@i{n2a: symbol missing in shared object : %s}" @*
One of the required symbols, see @manpage{netdir(5)}, was missing from a
shared object specified in the @member{nc_lookup} member of the
@manpage{netconfig(5)} structure referenced by a @var{config} argument.
@samp{%s} is replaced with the last @manpage{dlerror(3)} string.

@item ND_OPEN
"@i{n2a: could not open shared object : %s}" @*
One of the shared objects specified in the @member{nc_lookup} member of the
@manpage{netconfig(5)} structure referenced by a @var{config} argument could
not be opened.  @samp{%s} is replaced with the last @manpage{dlerror(3)}
string.

@item ND_ACCESS
"@i{n2a: access denied for shared object}" @*
One of the shared objects specified in the @member{nc_lookup} member of the
@manpage{netconfig(5)} structure referenced by a @var{config} argument could
not be opened due to access permission.

@item ND_UKNWN
"@i{n2a: attempt to free unknown object}" @*
@manpage{netdir_free(3)} was called with an unknown @var{struct_type} argument
value.

@item ND_NOCTRL
"@i{n2a: unknown option passed}" @*
@manpage{netdir_options(3)} was passed an unknown @var{option} argument value.

@item ND_FAILCTRL
"@i{n2a: control operation failed}" @*
The @manpage{netdir_options(3)} control operation failed.

@item ND_SYSTEM
"@i{n2a: system error}" @*
During the last name-to-address translation function, a system error occurred.
The @cite{Linux} system error is in @manpage{errno(3)}.
The @manpage{xti(3)} error in @manpage{t_errno(3)} might also provide some
insight into the error.

@item ND_NOCONVERT
"@i{n2a: conversion not possible}" @*
During the last name-to-address translation function it was discovered that character string
conversion was not possible.

@item other
"@i{n2a: unknown error %d}" @*
An internal error occured in the @manpage{libxnsl(3)} library or a loaded
shared object.  @samp{%d} is the decimal number of the error number that was
contained in @manpage{_nderror}.

@end table

An error message corresponding to the @manpage{_nderror} value can be
retrieved using @manpage{netdir_sperror(3)} or printed to standard error using
@manpage{netdir_perror(3)}.

@subsubheading Files

@table @file
@item /etc/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See @manref{netconfig(5)}.

@item /usr/lib/libxnsl.so
The X/Open Network Services Library shared object library.

@item /usr/lib/libxnsl.a
The X/Open Network Services Library static library.

@end table

@subsubheading See Also

@manref{netconfig(5)},
@manref{netconfig(3)},
@manref{netpath(3)},
@cite{RFC 1833}.

@subsubheading Compatibility

These network configuration subroutines are compatible with @cite{SVR 4.2} and
systems based on @cite{SVR 4.2}, including @cite{AIX}, @cite{Solaris} and
@cite{UnixWare}, with the following compatibility considerations:

@itemize --
@item
@cite{Solaris} and @cite{UnixWare} describe the @manpage{nc_sperror(3)}
subrouting as returning a pointer to thread-specific data and that the buffer
could change at any point.  While the error value is saved as thread-specific
data, this implementation of @manpage{nc_sperror(3)} returns a pointer to a
shared read-only string that is valid for the duration of the calling process.

@item
@cite{Solaris} does not document the @var{ND_CLEAR_BROADCAST},
@cite{ND_SET_REUSEADDR} nor @cite{ND_CLEAR_REUSEADDR} options to
@manpage{netdir_options(3)}.  @cite{UnixWare} does.

@item
@cite{UnixWare} documents that @manpage{_nderror} contains the cause of
failure and that @manpage{t_errno(3)} may provide some additional insights
into why a call failed.

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} stores the error condition in @manpage{_nderror}.

@item
Diagnostic message strings are not documented and are incompatible.

@item
Binary compatibility would only be coincidental.

@item
On @cite{UNIX} systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of the
Network Services Library, @file{libnsl}; however, @cite{Linux} already has a
library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these components), and,
therefore, @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} renames the library to
@manpage{libxnsl(3)}.

@end itemize

See @manref{libxnsl(3)} for additional compatibility information.

@subsubheading Conforming To

@cite{SVR 4.2}.

@subsubheading History

The network configuration subroutines first appeared in @cite{SVR 4.2}.  These
subroutines are related to the @cite{UNIX} @dfn{STREAMS} implementation of
network transport providers.

@page
@node netdir_getbyname
@unnumberedsubsubsec netdir_getbyname
@fnindex netdir_getbyname

@subsubheading Name

@strong{netdir_getbyname}, @strong{_netdir_getbyname} - lookup address in directory service by name

@subsubheading Synopsis
@example
#include <netdir.h>

int netdir_getbyname(struct netconfig *@var{config},
    struct nd_hostserv *@var{service}, struct nd_addrlist **@var{addrs});

struct nd_addrlist *_netdir_getbyname(struct netconfig *@var{config},
    struct nd_hostserv *@var{service});
@end example

@subsubheading Arguments

@table @var

@item config
A pointer to a @type{netconfig} structure describing the network trasnport
provider returned by @manpage{getnetconfig(3)} or @manpage{getnetpath(3)}.

@item service
A pointer to a @type{nd_hostserv} structure describing the name of a host
service.

@item addrs
A pointer to a @type{nd_addrlist} array describing the returned transport
address(es).

@end table

@subsubheading Description

@cite{UNIX} has traditionally provided three components of the Network
Services Library, @file{libnsl}, that are associated with Transport Provider
Interface, @manpage{tpi(7)}, @dfn{STREAMS} network pseudo-evice drivers, and
that are not currently part of the @cite{Linux} Network Services Library.
These components are:

@enumerate
@item Network Configuration database access, @manpage{netconfig(3)},
@item Network Directory and address mapping, @manpage{netdir(3)}, and
@item Network Path access, @manpage{netpath(3)}.
@end enumerate

These are often referred to collectively as the Network Selection facility of
the Network Services Library.

@manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)} provides a forward directory name service for
the network trasnport protocol specified with a pointer to a @type{netconfig}
structure, @var{config}.  The @var{config} pointer is acquired using the
@manpage{getnetconfig(3)}, @manpage{getnetconfigent(3)} or
@manpage{getnetpath(3)} subroutines and describes a particular transport
protocol from the @manpage{netconfig(5)} network configuration database.  The
host and service name tupe to forward lookup is specified as a pointer to a
@type{hd_hostserv} structure, @var{service}, that contains the host and
service name tuple (the structure is described below).
@manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)} returns into the pointer referenced by
@var{addrs} a pointer to a @type{nd_addrlist} structure that contains the
addresses associated with the name, @var{service}.

Once the @type{nd_addrlist} structure and the @manpage{netbuf(3)} structures
that it contains are no longer required, they are freed by passing a pointer
to the structure to @manpage{netdir_free(3)} with a @var{struct_type} argument
of @var{ND_ADDRLIST}.

@subsubheading Structure Format

The @type{netconfig} structure is defined in @file{netconfig.h} and described
in @manpage{netconfig(3)} and @manpage{netconfig(5)}.

The @type{nd_hostserv} structure is defined in @file{netconfig.h} and is
structured as follows:

@smallexample
struct nd_hostserv @{
    char *h_name;  /* host name */
    char *h_serv;  /* service name */
@};
@end smallexample

@table @asis
@item @member{h_name}
the host (machine) name.

The following special host names are defined in @file{netdir.h}:

@table @var
@item HOST_SELF
Local host name.
@item HOST_ANY
Any host name.
@item HOST_BROADCAST
All addresses accessible by transport.
@item HOST_SELF_CONNECT
Address for onnecting to the local host.
@item HOST_SELF_BIND
Bind to one's self.
@item HOST_ALLNODES
All nodes (broadcast or rpcbind broadcast).
@item HOST_RPCNODES
All RPC nodes (multicast or rpcbind multicast).
@end table

@item @member{h_serv}
the service name.
@end table

Upon successful return, the pointer referenced by the @var{addrs} pointer,
points to an allocated @type{nd_addrlist} structure containing the addresses
associated with the specified host and service name, @var{service}.  The
@type{nd_addrlist} structure is defined in @file{netconfig.h} and is
structured as follows:

@smallexample
struct nd_addrlist @{
    int n_cnt;               /* number of addresses */
    struct netbuf *n_addrs;  /* the addresses (array) */
@};
@end smallexample

@table @asis
@item @member{n_cnt}
the number of addresses in the list.
@item @member{n_addrs}
a pointer to an array of @type{netbuf} structures forming the address list.
@end table

Each address in the list pointed to by the @member{n_addrs} member of the
@type{nd_addrlist} structure is formatted as a @manpage{netbuf(3)} structure.
The @type{netbuf} structure is defined in @file{xti.h} and described in
@manpage{netbuf(3)}.

@subsubheading Usage

The procedure for use of the @manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)} subroutine is to
first acquire a pointer to a @type{netconfig} structure representing the entry
in the @manpage{netconfig(5)} database using a function such as
@manpage{getnetconfig(3)}, @manpage{getnetconfigent(3)} or
@manpage{getnetpath(3)}.  Then a host and service name tuple is placed in a
@type{nd_hostserv} structure and passed to the @manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)}
function.  The returned @type{nd_addrlist} structure pointer contains the
address associated with the name.  Once the @type{nd_addrlist} structure is no
longer required, it is freed with @manpage{netdir_free(3)} with a
@var{struct_type} of @var{ND_ADDRLIST}.

For Internet Protocols transports, (that is, when @var{config} points to a
@type{netconfig} structure corresponding to an Internet Protocol Version 4 or
Version 6 network), @manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)} is roughly equivalent to
@manpage{gethostbyname(3)} or @manpage{getipnodebyname(3)}; however,
@manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)} is more general and applies to networks other
than @samp{inet} or @samp{inet6}.  Also, @manpage{gethostbyname(3)} and
@manpage{getipnodebyname(3)} do not accept a service name, nor return a port
number.

@subsubheading Return Value

Upon successful completion, @manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)} returns zero
(@samp{0}) and places a pointer to an allocated @type{nd_addrlist} structure
in the pointer referenced by the @var{addrs} argument.  Otherwise, minus one
(@samp{-1}) is returned and @manpage{_nderror(3)} is set to indicate the
error.

@subsubheading Errors

When @manpage{netdir_getbyname()} fails, it returned minus one (@samp{-1}) and
sets @manpage{_nderror(3)} to one of the following error codes:

@table @error
@item ND_TRY_AGAIN
"@i{n2a: non-authoritative host not found}" @*
The host was not found, however, a name-to-address mapping function suffered a temporary failure
(such as a timeout).

@item ND_NO_RECOVERY
"@i{n2a: non-recoverable error}" @*
The last name-to-address translation function suffered an unrecoverable error in one of its lookup
libraries.

@item ND_NO_DATA
"@i{n2a: no data record of requested type}" @*
The last name-to-address translation function could find no data of the requested type in one of its
lookup libraries.

@item ND_NO_ADDRESS
"@i{n2a: no data record of requested type}" @*
The last name-to-address translation function could find no address of the requested type in one of
its lookup libraries.

@item ND_BADARG
"@i{n2a: bad arguments passed to routine}" @*
The last name-to-address translation function was passed a bad argument.

@item ND_NOMEM
"@i{n2a: memory allocation failed}" @*
The last name-to-address translation function could not allocate memory necessary to complete the
operation.

@item ND_NOHOST
"@i{n2a: hostname not found}" @*
The last name-to-address translation function, @manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)},
could not find, or does not support, the specified host name.

@item ND_NOSERV
"@i{n2a: service name not found}" @*
The last name-to-address translation function, @manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)},
could not find, or does not support, the specified service name.

@item ND_NOSYM
"@i{n2a: symbol missing in shared object : %s}" @*
One of the required symbols, see @manpage{netdir(5)}, was missing from a
shared object specified in the @member{nc_lookup} member of the
@manpage{netconfig(5)} structure referenced by a @var{config} argument.
@samp{%s} is replaced with the last @manpage{dlerror(3)} string.

@item ND_OPEN
"@i{n2a: could not open shared object : %s}" @*
One of the shared objects specified in the @member{nc_lookup} member of the
@manpage{netconfig(5)} structure referenced by a @var{config} argument could
not be opened.  @samp{%s} is replaced with the last @manpage{dlerror(3)}
string.

@item ND_ACCESS
"@i{n2a: access denied for shared object}" @*
One of the shared objects specified in the @member{nc_lookup} member of the
@manpage{netconfig(5)} structure referenced by a @var{config} argument could
not be opened due to access permission.

@item ND_SYSTEM
"@i{n2a: system error}" @*
During the last name-to-address translation function, a system error occurred.
The @cite{Linux} system error is in @manpage{errno(3)}.
The @manpage{xti(3)} error in @manpage{t_errno(3)} might also provide some
insight into the error.

@item other
"@i{n2a: unknown error %d}" @*
An internal error occured in the @manpage{libxnsl(3)} library or a loaded
shared object.  @samp{%d} is the decimal number of the error number that was
contained in @manpage{_nderror}.

@end table

When an error occurs, an error message can be printed to standard error or
retrieved using @manpage{netdir_perror(3)} or @manpage{netdir_sperror(3)}.

@subsubheading Caveats

Note that when the @member{h_serv} member of the @type{nd_hostserv} structure
is specified as @samp{NULL}, @manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)} will attempt to
formulate and return host-based addresses only.

@manpage{netdir_perror(3)} and @manpage{netdir_sperror(3)} must be called
immediately after the failed network configuration subroutine fails.
Otherwise, the error condition in @manpage{_nderror(3)} may be lost.

The poinoter returned to the pointer referenced by the @var{addrs} argument
must eventually be released by passing it to @manpage{netdir_free(3)} with a
@var{struct_type} argument of @var{ND_ADDRLIST}.

@subsubheading Implementation

Name to address lookup libraries that will have their
@manpage{_netdir_getbyname(3)} dynamic symbols called to perform the lookup
will be searched in the order that they appear in the @member{nc_lookups}
member of the specified @type{netconfig} structure, @var{config}.  If
@var{config} specifies an @samp{inet} or @samp{inet6} network, and the number
of lookup libraries, @member{nc_lookups}, is zero, the standard BSD inet
lookup functions will be used.

@manpage{_netdir_getbyname} is the symbol provided by shared object lookup
libraries to implement @manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)}.  If the library does not
implement @manpage{_netdir_getbyname}, @manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)} will
fail, return minus one (@samp{-1}) and set @manpage{_nderror(3)} to
@error{ND_NOSYM}.

@subsubheading Files

@table @file
@item /etc/netconfig
The Network Configuration database file.  See @manref{netconfig(5)}.

@item /usr/lib/libxnsl.so
The X/Open Network Services Library shared object library.

@item /usr/lib/libxnsl.a
The X/Open Network Services Library static library.

@end table

@subsubheading See Also

@manref{netdir(3)},
@manref{netconfig(5)},
@manref{netconfig(3)},
@manref{netpath(3)},
@cite{RFC 1833}.

@subsubheading

@manpage{netdir_getbyname} has no known bugs.

@subsubheading Compatibility

@manpage{netdir_getbyname(3)} is compatible with @cite{SVR 4.2} and systems
based on @cite{SVR 4.2}, including @cite{AIX}, @cite{HP-UX}, @cite{Solaris}
and @cite{UnixWare}, with the following compatibility considerations:

@itemize --
@item @cite{UnixWare} documents that @manpage{_nderror(3)} contains the cause
of failure and that @manpage{t_errno(3)} may provide some additional insights
into why a call failed.

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} stores the error condition in @manpage{_nderror(3)}.

@item Diagnostic message strings are not documented and are incompatible.

@item Binary compatibility would only be coincidental.

@item On @cite{UNIX} systems, these utility subroutines are normally part of
the Network Services Library, @file{libnsl}; however, @cite{Linux} already has
a library of that name (which unfortunately is missing these components), and,
therefore, @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} renames the library to
@manpage{libxnsl(3)}.  This means that both the @samp{-lnsl} and @samp{-lxnsl}
flags must be provided on the @command{gcc} command line.
@end itemize

See @manref{libxnsl(3)} for additional compatibility information.

@subsubheading Conforming To

@cite{SVR 4.2}.

@subsubheading History

The network configuration subroutines first appeared in @cite{SVR 4.2}.  These
subroutines are related to the @cite{UNIX} @dfn{STREAMS} implementation of
network transport providers.

@page
@node netdir_getbyaddr
@unnumberedsubsubsec netdir_getbyaddr
@fnindex netdir_getbyaddr

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@page
@node netdir_options
@unnumberedsubsubsec netdir_options
@fnindex netdir_options

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@page
@node taddr2uaddr
@unnumberedsubsubsec taddr2uaddr
@fnindex taddr2uaddr

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@page
@node uaddr2taddr
@unnumberedsubsubsec uaddr2taddr
@fnindex uaddr2taddr

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@page
@node netdir_free
@unnumberedsubsubsec netdir_free
@fnindex netdir_free

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@page
@node netdir_perror
@unnumberedsubsubsec netdir_perror
@fnindex netdir_perror

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@page
@node netdir_sperror
@unnumberedsubsubsec netdir_sperror
@fnindex netdir_sperror

@subsubheading Name
@subsubheading Synopsis
@subsubheading Arguments
@subsubheading Description
@subsubheading Caveats
@subsubheading Return Value
@subsubheading Errors
@subsubheading See Also
@subsubheading Conforming To

@node XNS Header File Reference
@section XNS Header File Reference

@cpindex header files

@menu
* netconfig.h::			Network Configuration header file.
@end menu

@page
@node netconfig.h
@unnumberedsubsec netconfig.h
@pgindex netconfig

@cpindex header files, netconfig
@cpindex netconfig header file

@page
@node Conformance
@chapter Conformance
@cindex conformance

This section lists the standards conformance of the OpenSS7 XNS Library.




@node Multi-Threading
@chapter Multi-Threading
@cindex thread safety


@node Error Handling
@chapter Error Handling
@cindex error handling

This chapter describes error handling in the XNS Library.



@node Installation
@chapter Installation
@cindex installation

This chapter describes configuration, compilation and installation of the XNS
library.



@node Bugs
@chapter Bugs
@cindex bugs

This is a description of the known bugs, installation troubles, known causes of
trouble, troubleshooting.

@node Public License
@appendix Public License
@include texi/lesser.texi

@node Documentation License
@appendix Dcoumentation License
@include texi/fdl.texi

@page
@node Concept Index
@appendix Indices
@appendixsec Concept Index

@printindex cp

@page
@node Type Index
@appendixsec Type Index

@printindex tp

@page
@node Function Index
@appendixsec Function and Macro Index

@printindex fn

@page
@node Variable Index
@appendixsec Variable and Constant Macro Index

@printindex vr

@page
@node File Index
@appendixsec Program and File Index

@printindex pg

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye

