@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.24 2007/10/18 06:53:37 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/10/18 06:53:37 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @*
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.3::		Release 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.2::		Release 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1::		Release 1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

This is the fourth separate release from @cite{The OpenSS7 Project} of the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  This package provides the @file{libxnsl}
library providing the Network Selection Facility for the Network Services
Library.  The package contains all the necessary manual pages and other
documentation.  The package is packaged as an OpenSS7 style autoconf tarball.

This is the fourth alpha release and is part of the OpenSS7 Master Package
(@file{openss7-@value{VERSION_OPENSS7}}).  The release provides support for
recent distributions and tool chains.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
License upgrade to GPL Version 3.

@item
Ability to strap out major documentation build and installation primarily for
embedded targets.

@item
Improvements to common build process for embedded and cross-compile targets.

@item
Support for flex 2.5.33  in maintainer mode.

@end itemize

@emph{This is a public alpha release of the package: it deprecates previous
releases.  Please upgrade to the current release before reporting bugs.  Please
see @file{README-alpha} in the release, or @refman{Maturity}.}

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs and
builds RPMs and DEBs for a wide range of Linux 2.4 and 2.6 RPM- and DPKG-based
distributions, and can be used on production kernels without patching or
recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released under the @cite{GNU General Public License
Version 3}.  The release is available as an @command{autoconf} tarball, SRPM,
DSC, and set of binary RPMs and DEBs.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html,downloads page} for the
@command{autoconf} tarballs, SRPMs and DSCs.  For tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and
binary RPMs and DEBs, see the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html,@value{PACKAGE} package
page}.

See
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog}
and @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS}
in the release for more information.  Also, see the @file{@value{PACKAGE}.pdf}
manual in the release (also in html
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html}).

@ignore
For the news release, see @uref{http://www.openss7.org/rel20070315_D.html}.
@end ignore

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.3

This is the third separate release from @cite{The OpenSS7 Project} of the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  This package provides the @file{libxnsl}
library providing the Network Selection Facility for the Network Services
Library.  The package contains all the necessary manual pages and other
documentation.  The package is packaged as an OpenSS7 style autoconf tarball.

This is the third alpha release and is part of the OpenSS7 Master Package
(@file{openss7-0.9.2.F}).  The release provides support for
recent distributions and tool chains.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Support build on openSUSE 10.2.

@item
Fixed problems with conflicting /etc/netconfig file definitions between libtirpc and this
implementation of the network configuration utilities.

@item
Support build on Fedora 7 with 2.6.21 kernel.

@item
Support build on CentOS 5.0 (RHEL5).

@item
Support build on Ubuntu 7.04.

@item
Updated to gettext 0.16.1.

@item
Supports build on Fedora Core 6.

@item
Support for recent distributions and tool chains.

@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.2
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.2

This is the second separate release from @cite{The OpenSS7 Project} of the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  This package provides the @file{libxnsl}
library providing the Network Selection Facility for the Network Services
Library.  The package contains all the necessary manual pages and other
documentation.  The package is packaged as an OpenSS7 style autoconf tarball.

This is the second alpha release for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} and is part of
the OpenSS7 Master Package (@file{openss7-0.9.2.E}).  The
release provides support for recent distributions and tool chains.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Improvements to the common build environment with better support for standalone
package builds on 2.4 kernels.

@item
Support for autoconf 2.61, automake 1.10 and gettext 0.16.

@item
Support for Ubuntu 6.10 distribution and bug fixes for i386 kenels.

@item
The package now looks for other subpackages with a version number as unpacked by
separate tarball.

@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1

This is the first separate release from @cite{The OpenSS7 Project} of the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  This package provides the
@file{libxnsl} library providing the Network Selection Facility for the
Network Services Library.  The package contains all the necessary manual pages
and other documentation.  The package is packaged as an OpenSS7 style autoconf
tarball.

This is the initial alpha release for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} and is part of
the OpenSS7 Master Package (@file{openss7-@value{VERSION_OPENSS7}}).

This release is the initial public release.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

