@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: todo.texi,v 0.9.2.7 2007/06/23 01:38:22 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/06/23 01:38:22 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@subsubheading Current Plan

Current plans are to just maintain this package for recent distributions, kernels and tool chains.
Although at some point the relation of this package to TI-RPC 2.8 needs to be worked out, when that
will happen is not currently on a schedule.  I do not really know how much of a requirement there is
for ONC RPC running over other transports such as ISO transports and SCTP transports, although it
would surely be interesting to run NFS4 over SCTP.

This package is not currently a priority for the OpenSS7 Project, which is focussed on more
telecom-specific protocol stacks and capabilities.  Nevertheless, if completion of this package is
important in your industry and your organization is able to fund further development or contribute
the missing items, contact us on the openss7-develop mailing list.  Until funding or a mandate
surfaces, this package will likely continue as a proof-of-concept only.  It will be maintained in a
compilable and installable package (that is, it will be updated for current Linux distributions and
kernels) on the same basis as other packages in the OpenSS7 master package.

@subsubheading Things to Do

@itemize @bullet
@item
Fedora 7 has a libtirpc library that uses the /etc/netconfig files.  To avoid conflicts, the
installation scripts now avoid overwriting this file.  An interesting thing is that the libtirpc
implementation is taken from TI-RPC 2.3 when there is a TI-RPC 2.8 available.  In generating an
strrpc package, it should replace this broken libtirpc library with a TI-RPC 2.8 library supporting
STREAMS using this strnsl package.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
The package still needs to be internationalized.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
This implementation of the Network Selection facility and Name-to-Address mapping allows direct use
of TI-RPC for Linux.  The primary benefit of this is the ability to use TI-RPC code directly without
significant and thus support upper level services such as NFS Version 4.  Another amazing
possibility is to not only immediately run NFS Version 4, but also to run it over SCTP.  A todo item
is to take the TI-RPC 2.8 release and port it to Linux Fast-STREAMS.  This might best be approached
with a separate strrpc package, or addressed directly by this package.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
One of the primary purposes of providing this package for the OpenSS7 Project was to provide access
to the network configuration database and name-to-address translation functions for the purpose of
using primarily the name-to-address translation functions for SS7 and other telephony related
protocols, not for the purposes of supporting TI-RPC, but a way of providing common mechanisms.
Fortunately, most of the definitions are part of the transport provider implementation.

Provide a mechanism for implementations of transport protocols to add their definitions into the
@manref{netconfig(5)} database files.

@emph{*done*}

@item
The texinfo manual, @file{libxnsl.texi}, is incomplete.  For the time being, the manual pages,
starting with @manref{libxnsl(3)}, are the definitive documentation.  It would be nice to also
provide these library manual pages as a printable manual, however, the project has not yet found the
time to complete this manual.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
This package is largely untested.  A conformance test suite and some test cases need to be written.

@emph{*todo*}

@end itemize

