@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id$
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c $Log$
@c =========================================================================

@ignore
The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package installs the following kernel modules in the
@file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-} subdirectory:@footnote{The kernel version
@samp{@value{_kversion}} is just an example.}

@table @file

@item streams_tirdwr.ko
Contains the @manref{tirdwr(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} module.

@item streams_timod.ko
Contains the @manref{timod(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} module.

@end table
@end ignore

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package installs the following header files in the system include directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-include/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:

@multitable @columnfractions .35 .35

@item sys/strnsl/config.h @tab sys/netconfig.h
@item sys/strnsl/version.h @tab netdir.h
@item @tab netconfig.h

@end multitable

@ignore
The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package installs the following internationalization catalogues in
the @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-locale/@-} subdirectory:

@multitable @columnfractions 1.0

@item @file{de/LC_MESSAGES/strnsl.mo}

@end multitable

@end ignore
The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package installs the following manual pages in the system man
directory, @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-}:

@multitable @columnfractions .30 .70

@item strnsl.macros @tab man3/endnetconfig.3
@item strnsl.refs @tab man3/endnetpath.3
@item @tab man3/freenetconfigent.3
@item man5/strnsl.5 @tab man3/getnetconfig.3
@item man5/netconfig.5 @tab man3/getnetconfigent.3
@item man5/netdir.5 @tab man3/getnetpath.3
@item @tab man3/libxnsl.3
@item man8/test-xnsl.8 @tab man3/nc_perror.3
@item man8/test-xnsl_thr.8 @tab man3/nc_sperror.3
@item @tab man3/_nderror.3
@item @tab man3/netbuf.3
@item @tab man3/netconfig.3
@item @tab man3/netdir.3
@item @tab man3/netdir_free.3
@item @tab man3/netdir_getbyaddr.3
@item @tab man3/netdir_getbyname.3
@item @tab man3/netdir_options.3
@item @tab man3/netdir_perror.3
@item @tab man3/netdir_sperror.3
@item @tab man3/netpath.3
@item @tab man3/setnetconfig.3
@item @tab man3/setnetpath.3
@item @tab man3/taddr2uaddr.3
@item @tab man3/uaddr2taddr.3
@item @tab man3/xnsl.3
@item @tab man3/inetaddr.3

@end multitable

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package places the following test programs in the system
libexec directory @file{/@-usr/@-lib@-exec/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:

@table @file

@item test-xnsl
This binary from a C-language program contains a test program for the @manpage{libxnsl(3)} library.
For more information on @command{test-xnsl}, see the corresponding manual page:
@manref{test-xnsl(8)}.
Test programs are normally invoked on a test case by test case basis by the validation test suite,
@command{testsuite}, described below.

@item test-xnsl_thr
This binary from a C-language program contains a test program for the @manpage{libxnsl(3)} library.
For more information on @command{test-xnsl_thr}, see the corresponding manual page:
@manref{test-xnsl_thr(8)}.
Test programs are normally invoked on a test case by test case basis by the validation test suite,
@command{testsuite}, described below.

@item testsuite
@itemx atlocal
The @command{testsuite} stand-alone shell script invokes test cases in the test programs above as
compiled into a comprehensive regression, troubleshooting and validation test suite for the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  The @file{atlocal} file provides localized definitions use by
the @command{testsuite} shell program.
For more information on test suites, @xref{Test Suites}, and, in particular, @xref{Running Test
Suites}.

@item send-pr
@itemx send-pr.config
The @command{send-pr} stand-alone shell script can be used for the automatic generation of problem
reports for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  The @file{send-pr.config} file provides
localized definitions used by the @command{send-pr} shell program.
For more information on problem reports, @xref{Problem Reports}, and, in particular, @xref{Stand
Alone Problem Reports}.

@end table

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package places the following info files in the system info directory,
@file{/@-user/@-share/@-info/@-}:

@table @file

@item strnsl.info
@itemx strnsl.info-1
@itemx strnsl.info-2
These files contain this manual in @dfn{GNU info} format.

@item libxnsl.info
An incomplete info manual for the @file{libxnsl} library.  See the manual pages,
@manref{libxnsl(3)}, instead.

@end table

@ignore
/usr
/usr/include
/usr/include/strnsl
/usr/include/strnsl/sys
/usr/include/strnsl/sys/strnsl
/usr/include/strnsl/sys/strnsl/config.h
/usr/include/strnsl/sys/strnsl/version.h
/usr/include/strnsl/sys/netconfig.h
/usr/include/strnsl/netdir.h
/usr/include/strnsl/netconfig.h
/usr/share
/usr/share/man
/usr/share/man/strnsl.macros
/usr/share/man/strnsl.refs
/usr/share/man/man3
/usr/share/man/man3/endnetconfig.3
/usr/share/man/man3/endnetpath.3
/usr/share/man/man3/freenetconfigent.3
/usr/share/man/man3/getnetconfig.3
/usr/share/man/man3/getnetconfigent.3
/usr/share/man/man3/getnetpath.3
/usr/share/man/man3/libxnsl.3
/usr/share/man/man3/nc_perror.3
/usr/share/man/man3/nc_sperror.3
/usr/share/man/man3/_nderror.3
/usr/share/man/man3/netbuf.3
/usr/share/man/man3/netconfig.3
/usr/share/man/man3/netdir.3
/usr/share/man/man3/netdir_free.3
/usr/share/man/man3/netdir_getbyaddr.3
/usr/share/man/man3/netdir_getbyname.3
/usr/share/man/man3/netdir_options.3
/usr/share/man/man3/netdir_perror.3
/usr/share/man/man3/netdir_sperror.3
/usr/share/man/man3/netpath.3
/usr/share/man/man3/setnetconfig.3
/usr/share/man/man3/setnetpath.3
/usr/share/man/man3/taddr2uaddr.3
/usr/share/man/man3/uaddr2taddr.3
/usr/share/man/man3/xnsl.3
/usr/share/man/man3/inetaddr.3
/usr/share/man/man5
/usr/share/man/man5/strnsl.5
/usr/share/man/man5/netconfig.5
/usr/share/man/man5/netdir.5
/usr/share/man/man8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-xnsl.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-xnsl_thr.8
/usr/share/info
/usr/share/info/strnsl.info
/usr/share/info/strnsl.info-1
/usr/share/info/strnsl.info-2
/usr/share/info/libxnsl.info
/usr/libexec
/usr/libexec/strnsl
/usr/libexec/strnsl/send-pr
/usr/libexec/strnsl/send-pr.config
/usr/libexec/strnsl/test-xnsl
/usr/libexec/strnsl/test-xnsl_thr
/usr/libexec/strnsl/testsuite
/usr/libexec/strnsl/atlocal
/usr/lib
/usr/lib/libxnsl.so.0.0.0
/usr/lib/libxnsl.so.0
/usr/lib/libxnsl.so
/usr/lib/libxnsl.la
/usr/lib/libxnsl.a
/usr/lib/inetaddr.so
/usr/lib/inetaddr.la
/usr/lib/inetaddr.a
/usr/sbin
/etc
/etc/netconfig
/etc/default
/etc/init.d
/lib
/lib/modules
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strnsl
@end ignore
