@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: descrip.texi,v 0.9.2.10 2007/06/22 00:19:18 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/06/22 00:19:18 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} is an implementation of the
X/Open Transport Interface or SVID Transport Layer Interface library in accordance with SUSv2 and
XNS 5.2 standards.  It consists of user-space libraries (@file{libxnet}) and a set of cooperating
@dfn{STREAMS} modules (@manpage{timod(4)} and @manpage{tirdwr(4)}).  The @dfn{STREAMS} module,
@manpage{timod(4)}, is pushed on any Stream implementing the Transport Provider Interface (TPI)
Revision 1.5 or 2.0.0 service interface and provides XTI/TLI library access to the transport
provider.  Definitions for the Transport Provider Interface (TPI) Revision 2.0.0 are also provided
by header files included in the package.

@ignore
The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package contains header files and a number of modules and drivers
and the associated documentation that were formerly contained in the @cite{OpenSS7 Linux STREAMS
(LiS)} releases.  When development started on @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} in 2003, these modules were
removed from the @cite{LiS} distribution and separated so that they could build against both the
@cite{LiS} and @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} packages from the same baseline code.

@cite{LiS} is now deprecated, but these interfaces are maintained as a separate add-on package to
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} partially due to historic reasons but also due to the unique licensing
restrictions associated with the TPI and XTI components.

@end ignore
The package contains the following standard @cite{Open Systems Interconnect (OSI)} conforming header
files:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .35 .60
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<sys/tiusr.h>} @tab @cite{TPI Version 2.0.0} user
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<sys/tihdr.h>} @tab @cite{TPI Version 2.0.0} kernel
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<sys/ticots.h>} @tab @cite{TPI COTS}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<sys/ticots_ord.h>} @tab @cite{TPI COTS w/ Orderly Release}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<sys/ticlts.h>} @tab @cite{TPI CLTS}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<xti.h>} @tab @cite{XTI/TLI Library}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<xti_inet.h>} @tab @cite{XTI/TLI Library}
@end multitable

Note that the @cite{Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)} and @cite{Network Provider Interface} are
contained in the @samp{strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}} package.

The package builds and installs the following @dfn{STREAMS} kernel modules and drivers:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_timod.ko} module @dfn{timod}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_tirdwr.ko} module @dfn{tirdwr}
@end multitable

@table @manref
@item timod(4)
a @dfn{STREAMS} XTI/TLI compatibility interface.

@item tirdwr(4)
a @dfn{STREAMS} XTI/TLI read write compatibility module.
@end table

The package builds and installs the following shared object and static libraries:

@table @manref
@item libxnet(3)
@cite{XNS 5.2} XTI/TLI Library (@file{libxnet})

@end table

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package includes kernel modules, @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS}
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and development environment for the
development and execution of @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} protocol stack components and
applications for the @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS} environment.

This distribution is only currently applicable to @cite{Linux} 2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted
at @code{ix86}, @code{x86_64}, @code{ppc} and @code{ppc64} architectures, but should build and
install for other architectures as well.

