@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.34 2007/10/18 06:53:47 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/10/18 06:53:47 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @*
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.11::		Release 11
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.10::		Release 10
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.9::		Release 9
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.8::		Release 8
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.7::		Release 7
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.6::		Release 6
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-5::		Release 5
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-4::		Release 4
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-3::		Release 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-2::		Release 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-1::		Release 1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

This @cite{OpenSS7 Project} release is another separate release of the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package whose components were formerly part of the
@file{strinet} package.  These networking modules provide TPI and XTI/TLI
library, as well as providing TPI and XTI header files.  The package contains
all the necessary manual pages and other documentation, including a reprint of
the TPI 1.5 specification, for XTI components.  The package is packaged as an
OpenSS7 style autoconf tarball.

This release is a stable, production grade release
and is part of the OpenSS7 Master Package
(@file{openss7-@value{VERSION_OPENSS7}}).

This release is primarily a maintenance release to support recent distributions
and tool chains.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Kernel module license made explicit "GPL v2".  And then changed back to "GPL".

@item
License upgrade to GPL Version 3.

@item
Ability to strap out major documentation build and installation primarily for
embedded targets.

@item
Improvements to common build process for embedded and cross-compile targets.

@end itemize

@emph{This is a public stable production grade release of the package: it
deprecates previous releases.  Please upgrade to the current release before
reporting bugs.}

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs and
builds RPMs and DEBs for a wide range of Linux 2.4 and 2.6 RPM- and DPKG-based
distributions, and can be used on production kernels without patching or
recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released under the @cite{GNU General Public License
Version 3}.  The release is available as an @command{autoconf} tarball, SRPM,
DSC, and set of binary RPMs and DEBs.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html,downloads page} for the
@command{autoconf} tarballs, SRPMs and DSCs.  For tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and
binary RPMs and DEBs, see the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html,@value{PACKAGE} package
page}.

See
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog}
and @uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS}
in the release for more information.  Also, see the @file{@value{PACKAGE}.pdf}
manual in the release (also in html
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html}).

@ignore
For the news release, see @uref{http://www.openss7.org/rel20070315_E.html}.
@end ignore

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.11
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.11
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.11

This @cite{OpenSS7 Project} release is another separate release of the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package whose components were formerly part of the
@file{strinet} package.  These networking modules provide TPI and XTI/TLI
library, as well as providing TPI and XTI header files.  The package contains
all the necessary manual pages and other documentation, including a reprint of
the TPI 1.5 specification, for XTI components.  The package is packaged as an
OpenSS7 style autoconf tarball.

This release is a stable, production grade release
and is part of the OpenSS7 Master Package
(@file{openss7-0.9.2.F}).

This release is primarily a maintenance release to support recent distributions
and tool chains.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Support build on openSUSE 10.2.

@item
Support build on Fedora 7 with 2.6.21 kernel.

@item
Support build on CentOS 5.0 (RHEL5).

@item
Support build on Ubuntu 7.04.

@item
Updated to gettext 0.16.1.

@item
Changes to support build on 2.6.20-1.2307.fc5 and 2.6.20-1.2933.fc6 kernel.

@item
Supports build on Fedora Core 6.

@item
Support for recent distributions and tool chains.

@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.10
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.10
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.10

This @cite{OpenSS7 Project} release is another separate release of the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package whose components were formerly part of the
@file{strinet} package.  These networking modules provide TPI and XTI/TLI
library, as well as providing TPI and XTI header files.  The package contains
all the necessary manual pages and other documentation, including a reprint of
the TPI 1.5 specification, for XTI components.  The package is packaged as an
OpenSS7 style autoconf tarball.

This release is a stable, production grade release for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}
and is part of the OpenSS7 Master Package
(@file{openss7-0.9.2.E}).

This release is primarily a maintenance release to support recent distributions
and tool chains.

Major features since the last public release are as follows:

@itemize -
@item
Improvements to the common build environment with better support for standalone
package builds on 2.4 kernels.

@item
Support for autoconf 2.61, automake 1.10 and gettext 0.16.

@item
Support for Ubuntu 6.10 distribution and bug fixes for i386 kernels.

@item
The package now looks for other subpackages with a version number as unpacked by
separate tarball.

@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.9
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.9
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.9

This @cite{OpenSS7 Project} release is another separate release of the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package whose components were formerly part of
the @file{strinet} package.  These networking modules provide TPI and XTI/TLI
library, as well as providing TPI and XTI header files.  The package contains
all the necessary manual pages and other documentation, including a reprint of
the TPI 1.5 specification, for XTI components.  The package is packaged as an
OpenSS7 style autoconf tarball.

This release is a stable, production grade release for @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS} and is part of the OpenSS7 Master Package
(@file{openss7-@value{VERSION_OPENSS7}}).

This release is primarily a maintenance release.  No significant defect
corrections or development has been applied.  This release is a stable
production release for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  Support for @cite{LiS} is
deprecated as of this release.

The release provides the following enhancements and fixes:

@itemize -
@item
Support for most recent 2.6.18 kernels (including Fedora Core 5 with inode
diet patch set).

@item
Added Network Services Library containing network selection facility as well as
name-to-address mapping functions ala ONC RPC.  This library has subsequently
been moved to the @command{strnxsl} package.

@item
Now builds 32-bit compatibility libraries and tests them against 64-bit kernel
modules and drivers.  The @samp{make installcheck} target will now automatically
test both 64-bit native and 32-bit compatibility versions, one after the other,
on 64-bit platforms.

@item
Added versions to all library symbols.

@item
Many documentation updates for all @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7}
packages.  Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and
timely text documentation present in the release directory.

@item
Dropped support for @cite{LiS}.

@item
Updated @command{init} scripts for proper addition and removal of modules.

@item
Start assigning majors at major device number 231 instead of major device number
230.  Assign major device number 230 explicitly to the clone device.  Package
will now support extended ranges of minor devices on 2.6 kernels under
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} only.  @cite{@value{PACKAGE}} now supports expanded
addressable minor device numbers, permitting 2^16 addressable minor devices per
major device number on 2.6 kernels: @cite{LiS} cannot support this change.

@item
Better detection of SUSE distributions, release numbers and SLES distributions:
support for additional @cite{SuSE} distributions on @code{ix86} as well as
@code{x86_64}.  Added distribution support includes @cite{SLES 9}, @cite{SLES 9
SP2}, @cite{SLES 9 SP3}, @cite{SLES 10}, @cite{SuSE 10.1}.

@item
Improved compiler flag generation and optimizations for recent @command{gcc}
compilers and some idiosyncratic behaviour for some distributions (primarily
SUSE).

@item
Optimized compilation is now available also for user level programs in addition
to kernel programs.  Added new @option{--with-optimize} option to
@command{configure} to accomplish this.

@item
Added @command{--disable-devel} @command{configure} option to suppress building
and installing development environment.  This feature is for embedded or pure
runtime targets that do not need the development environment (static libraries,
manual pages, documentation).

@item
Added @command{send-pr} script for automatic problem report generation.

@item
The package will now build doxygen(1) html documentation with the 'doxy' make
target.  See 'make help' or README-make in the distribution for more
information.
@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.8
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.8
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.8

This release is primarily to support additional compilers (gcc 4.0.2),
architectures (x86_64, SMP, 32-bit compatibility), recent Linux distributions
(EL4, SuSE 10, LE2006, OpenSuSE) and kernels (2.6.15).

This is primarily a maintenance release.  Validated for operation on x86_64 SMP
kernel using Linux Fast-STREAMS.  Changes included to handle __LP64__ kernels.
Corrected build flags for Gentoo and 2.6.15 kernels as reported on mailing list.
Corrects one bug from inspection.

@itemize -
@item
Changes necessary for __LP64__ compatible builds.  Changes to support 32-bit
ioctl compatibility for __LP64__ architectures.  Binary compatibility should not
have been disrupted.  At the same time as the ioctl32 changes, TRANSPARENT ioctl
support for most of the IO controls for the ldl(4) driver has been added.

@item
Changes to satisfy gcc 4.0.2 compiler.

@item
Corrections for and testing of 64-bit clean compile and test runs on x86_64
architecture.  Some bug corrections resulting from gcc 4.0.2 compiler warnings.

@item
Corrected build flags for Gentoo and 2.6.15 kernels as reported on mailing list.

@item
Initial corrections for and testing of SMP operation on Intel 630 Hyper-Threaded
SMP on x86_64.  This package should now run well on N-way Xeons even with
Hyper-Threading enabled.

@item
Corrections and validation of 32-bit compatibility over 64-bit on x86_64.
Should apply well to other 64-bit architectures as well.
@end itemize

@emph{This is a public stable production release of the package: it
deprecates previous releases.  Please upgrade to the current release before
reporting bugs.}


@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.7
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.7
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.7

This is primarily a bug fixes release.  This release has been verified
(conformance test suite passes) for operation with Linux Fast-STREAMS
(streams-0.7a.4).  Some test cases were updated because LiS was not operating
correctly on pipes (does not send SIGPIPE on write error contrary to POSIX).

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.6
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.6
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.6

With this release version numbers were changed to reflect an upstream version
only to be consistent with other OpenSS7 package releases.  All @cite{RPM}
release numbers will be @samp{-1$(PACKAGE_RPMEXTRA)} and all @cite{Debian}
release numbers will be @samp{_0}.  If you wish to apply patches and release the
package, please bump up the release number and apply a suitable release suffix
for your organization.  We leave @cite{Debian} release number @samp{_1} reserved
for your use, so you can still bundle the source in the @file{.dsc} file.

Major changes for this release include build against Linux 2.6 kernels and
popular distributions based on the 2.6 kernel as well as wider distribution
support.  The package also supports both @file{LiS-2.18.1} as well as
@file{streams-0.7a} on both kernels.

Removed @cite{XNS} kernel modules, header files and documentation to a separate
@file{strxns-0.9.2-1} package and @cite{INET} kernel modules, header files and
documentation to a separate @file{strinet-0.9.2-1} package.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-5
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-5
@cindex @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-5

Dropped RPM epoch to 0 from 1 in preparation for RPM release.  Bumped RPM
release to 5.

Minor corrections: made @cite{SCTP} manual pages conditional on @cite{OpenSS7 SCTP}
kernel.

Updated documentation and provided improvements to build process applied to
other packages.  This includes improvements to creation of @file{info} and
@file{pdf} manuals.  Update @command{tirdwr} and @command{timod} manual page.

Removed INET package from @file{@value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-5} release.  This has now
been moved to the @file{strxns-0.9.2}@footnote{@xref{Top, About This Manual,
About This Manual, strxns, OpenSS7 XNS Networking Installation and Reference
Manual}.} package.  Removed XNS header files and manual pages for CDI, DLPI and
NPI to that package.  Also removed @command{test-inet_raw},
@command{test-inet_udp} and @command{test-inet_tcp} test programs to that
package.  Removed @file{/dev/inet} driver to that package.  Stripped out the
-dev- RPM subpackage as there are no devices left in the package.  Adjusted the
virtual package provides naming to a more rational approach.  Adjusted kernel
module installation process to accommodate.

Genksyms now generates kernels symbols for all combinations of SMP and
@var{CONFIG_REGPARM} kernels allowing a single modversions header file.
Improved manual pages @command{automake} file fragment (@file{am/man.am}) to
accommodate top-level manual pages (this was really for the @file{netperf}
release).

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-4
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-4
@cindex @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-4

Changes to compile, install.  Now builds rpms for @cite{Fedora Core 1 (FC1)},
@cite{Whitebox Enterprise Linux (WBEL)} and @cite{RedHat Enterprise Linux
(EL3)}.

Included explicit epoch in internal dependencies in @file{.spec} file for RPM
versions 4.2.1, 4.2.2 and higher.  Added hugemem kernel detection and moved
@command{getpmsg} and @command{putpmsg} manual pages.

Correction to symbolic linking and system map file location during non-rpm
@command{autoconf} installation.

Correction to zero maxlen behaviour in @command{t_rcvconnect()}.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-3
@cindex @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-3

Added check for @var{CONFIG_REGPARM}, addition of @command{-mregparm=3}
@var{CFLAGS}, addition of @samp{regparm_} prefix for exported kernel symbols.

Minor corrections to separate build directory install of devices and caching of
detected kernel symbols.

Added an option for suppression of exported symbol versions
(@command{--without-modversions}).

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-2
@cindex @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-2

A couple of corrections to the build process reported by Gurol.  Changed order
of build in @samp{make rebuild} target to build tools last so that the rpm debug
package is build correctly on @cite{RedHat 9}.

Changed @var{MODULE_PARM} to static so that @samp{make install-strip} does not strip module
parameter symbols.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-1
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-1
@cindex @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-1

Initial autoconf/RPM packaging of the @command{@value{PACKAGE}} release.

