@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: releases.texi,v 0.9.2.6 2005/03/31 20:19:20 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
@c Copyright (C) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/31 20:19:20 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is the OpenSS7 Release of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} tools, drivers and modules
used with the @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} or @cite{Linux STREAMS} SVR 4.2 STREAMS utility for Linux.

The purpose of providing a separate release of this package was to separate the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} tools, headers, drivers and modules from the @cite{Linux STREAMS} package for
use with both @cite{Linux STREAMS} and @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} in preparation for replacement of
the former by the later.

The following sections provide information on @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} releases as well as
compatibility information of OpenSS7 release to the original GCOM releases of these modules and
drivers, as well as Linux kernel compatibility.

@menu
* Prerequisites::		Prerequisite packages
* Compatibility::		Compatibility Issues
* Release Notes::		Release Notes
* Bugs::			Known Bugs
* Schedule::			Development and Bug Fix Schedule
* History::			Project History
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Prerequisites
@section Prerequisites
@cindex prerequisites

Prerequisites for the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package are as follows:

@itemize @bullet
@item A fairly LSB compliant GNU/Linux distribution.
@footnote{@xref{GNU/Linux Distributions}, for more information.}
@item Linux 2.4 or 2.6 kernel (2.4.10 - 2.4.27) or (2.6.3 - 2.6.10)
@item glibc2 or better.
@item GNU info (for info files).
@item GNU groff (for man pages).
@footnote{If you are using a Debian release, please make sure to install the groff extension package
(@samp{groff_ext}), as it contains the @command{refer} or @command{grefer} commands necessary for
including references in the manual pages.}
@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Compatibility
@section Compatibility
@cindex compatibility

This section discusses compatibility with major prerequisites.

@menu
* GNU/Linux Distributions::	Compatibility to GNU/Linux Distributions
* Linux Kernel::		Compatibility to Linux Kernels
* Linux STREAMS::		Compatibility to LiS
* Linux Fast-STREAMS::		Compatibility to LfS
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node GNU/Linux Distributions
@subsection GNU/Linux Distributions
@cindex GNU/Linux Distributions

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is compatible with the following @dfn{Linux} distributions:

@itemize @bullet
@item RedHat Linux 7.2 (RH7)
@item RedHat Linux 7.3 (RH7)
@item Performance Technlogies @dfn{NexusWare24}
@item RedHat Linux 8.0 (RH8)
@item RedHat Linux 9 (RH9)
@item SuSE 8.0 Professional
@item Fedora Core 1 (FC1)
@item Debian 3.0r2 Woody
@item Mandrakelinux 9.2 (MDK92)
@item RedHat Enterprise Linux 3 (EL3)
@item WhiteBox Enterprise Linux 3 (WBEL3)
@item Fedora Core 2 (FC2)
@item SuSE 9.1 Personal
@item Mandrakelinux 10.0 (MDK100)
@item SuSE 9.2 Professional (SuSE9.2)
@item Mandrakelinux 10.1 (MDK101)
@item RedHat Enterprise Linux 4 (EL4)
@item Fedora Core 3 (FC3)
@end itemize

When installing from the tarball (@pxref{Installing the Tar Ball}), this distribution is probably
compatible with a  much broader array of distributions than those listed above.  These are the
distributions against which the current maintainer creates builds.

@node Linux Kernel
@subsection Kernel
@cindex Kernel

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} compiles as a @dfn{Linux} kernel module.  It is not ncessary to patch the
@dfn{Linux} kernel to use the package.  At a later date, it is possible to move this package into the
kernel.

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is compatible with 2.4 kernel series after 2.4.10.  It has been tested
up to and including 2.6.10.

@node Linux STREAMS
@subsection Linux STREAMS
@cindex Linux STREAMS

@node Linux Fast-STREAMS
@subsection Linux Fast-STREAMS
@cindex Linux Fast-STREAMS

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release Notes
@section Release Notes
@cindex release notes

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @*
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.

@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
* @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-5::		Release 5
* @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-4::		Release 4
* @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-3::		Release 3
* @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-2::		Release 2
* @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-1::		Release 1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@subsection Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

Version numbering updated.  Linux 2.6 build.  LiS 2.18.1 build.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-5
@subsection @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-5
@cindex @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-5

Dropped RPM epoch to 0 from 1 in preparation for RPM release.
Bumped RPM release to 5.

Minor corrections: made SCTP manpages conditional on OpenSS7 SCTP kernel.

Updated documentation and provided improvements to build process applied to
other packages.  This includes improvements to creation of info and pdf manuals.
Update @command{tirdwr} and @command{timod} manpage.

Removed INET package from @file{@value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-5} release.  This has now been moved
to the @file{strxns-0.9.2}@footnote{@xref{Top, About This Manual, About This
Manual, strxns, OpenSS7 XNS Networking Installation and Reference Manual}}
package.  Removed XNS header files and manual pages for CDI, DLPI and NPI to
that package.  Also removed @command{test-inet_raw}, @command{test-inet_udp} and
@command{test-inet_tcp} test programs to that package.  Removed @file{/dev/inet}
driver to that package.  Stripped out the -dev- RPM subpackage as there are no
devices left in the package.  Adjusted the virtual package provides naming to a
more rational approach.  Adjusted kernel module installation process to
accomodate.

Genksyms now generates kernels symbols for all combinations of SMP and
@var{CONFIG_REGPARM} kernels allowing a single modversions header file.
Improved manpages @command{automake} file fragment (@file{am/man.am}) to
accomodate top-level manual pages (this was really for the @file{netperf}
release).

@node @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-4
@subsection @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-4
@cindex @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-4

Changes to compile, install.  Now builds rpms for @cite{Fedora Core 1 (FC1)},
@cite{Whitebox Enterprise Linux (WBEL)} and @cite{RedHat Enterprise Linux
(EL3)}.

Included explicit epoch in internal dependencies in @file{.spec} file for RPM
versions 4.2.1, 4.2.2 and higher.  Added hugemem kernel detection and moved
@command{getpmsg} and @command{putpmsg} manual pages.

Correction to symbolic linking and system map file location during non-rpm
@command{autoconf} installation.

Correction to zero maxlen behavior in @command{t_rcvconnect()}.

@node @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-3
@subsection @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-3
@cindex @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-3

Added check for @var{CONFIG_REGPARM}, addition of @command{-mregparm=3}
@var{CFLAGS}, addition of @samp{regparm_} prefix for exported kernel symbols.

Minor corrections to separate build directory install of devices and caching of
detected kernel symbols.

Added an option for suppression of exported symbol versioning
(@command{--without-modversions}).

@node @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-2
@subsection @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-2
@cindex @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-2

A couple of corrections to the build process reported by Gurol.  Changed order
of build in @samp{make rebuild} target to build tools last so that the rpm debug
package is build correctly on @cite{RedHat 9}.

Changed @var{MODULE_PARM} to static so that @samp{make install-strip} does not
strip module parameter symbols.

@node @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-1
@subsection @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-1
@cindex @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2-1

Initial autoconf/RPM packaging of the @command{@value{PACKAGE}} release.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Bugs
@section Bugs
@cindex bugs

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} has many known bugs.  These are alpha releases.  Use at your own risk.
Remember that there is @b{NO WARRANTY}.@footnote{See section @b{NO WARRANY} under @ref{Copying}.}

@b{This software is @i{alpha} software.  As such, it will likely crash your kernel.  Installation
of the software may irreparably mangle your header files or Linux distribution in such a way as to
make it unusable.  Crashes will likely lock your system and rebooting the system might not repair the
problem.  You can loose all the data on your system.  Because this software can crash your kernel,
the resulting unstable system could destroy computer hardware or peripherals making them unusable.
You will likely void the warranty on any system on which you run this software. YOU HAVE BEEN
WARNED.}

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Schedule
@section Schedule
@cindex schedule

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node History
@section History
@cindex history

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

