% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id: strxnet.texi,v 0.9.2.30 2007/01/08 16:24:39 brian Exp $
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (C) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
% Copyright (C) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
% manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
% preserved on all copies.
%
% Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
% manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
% entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
% permission notice identical to this one.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date: 2007/01/08 16:24:39 $ by $Author: brian $
%
% =========================================================================

\input texinfo
@setfilename strxnet.info
@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}

@dircategory STREAMS
@direntry
* OpenSS7 XNET: (@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}).      An Open STREAMS XNS/XTI Networking Package.
@end direntry

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file provides the @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of the
@cite{@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2007  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results,
provided the printed manual carries copying permission notice identical to
this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this paragraph not being
relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the above conditions for modified versions.
@end ifinfo

@include texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
@set MANUAL_TYPE Installation and Reference Manual

@ignore
@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@end ignore
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <@uref{http://www.openss7.com/}> @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> @*
All Rights Reserved. @*

@noindent
Published by OpenSS7 Corporation @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
This is texinfo edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}
manual, and is consistent with @value{PACKAGE_NAME} @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}.
This manual was developed under the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7
Project} and was funded in part by
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation}.

@noindent
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into
another language, under the same conditions as for modified versions.

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@page

@c Define an index of authors.
@defindex au

@c Define an index of makefile targets
@defcodeindex mk

@c Define an index of configure output variables.
@c @defcodeindex ov

@c Define an index of configure variables.
@c @defcodeindex cv

@c Define an index of options.
@defcodeindex op

@c Define an index of targets.
@c @defcodeindex tr

@c Define an index of commands.
@c @defcodeindex cm

@c Put the macros and variables into their own index.
@c @syncodeindex fn cp
@c @syncodeindex ov vr
@c @syncodeindex cv vr
@c @syncodeindex fn vr

@c Put everything else into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the concept index).
@c @syncodeindex op cp
@c @syncodeindex tr cp
@c @syncodeindex cm cp

@c An index of manual pages
@defcodeindex mp

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@unnumbered About This Manual
This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of @cite{The
@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE} of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Preface::			Preface to this manual

* Quick Start Guide::		Quick Installation Instructions

* Introduction::		Introduction to the package
* Objective::			Objective of the package
* Reference::			Contents of the package
* Development::			Developing with the package
* Conformance::			Conformance of the package
* Releases::			Releases of the package
* Installation::		Installation of the package
* Troubleshooting::		Troubleshooting of the package

* Licenses::			Copies of OpenSource Licenses

* Indices::			Index of Indices

 ----- detailed node listing -----

Preface

* Notice::			Notices for this package
* Abstract::			Abstract for this manual
* Revisions::			Revisions of this manual
* Disclaimer::			IPR Disclaimers for this package
* Acknowledgements::		Sponsors of and Contributors to the package
* Authors::			Authors of the package
* Maintainer::			Maintainers of the package
* Web Resources::		Web Resources for the package

Introduction

* Overview::			Overview
* Organization::		Organization
* Conventions::			Conventions

Objective

Reference

* Files::			Files included in the package
* Drivers::			Drivers included in the package
* Modules::			Modules included in the package
* Libraries::			Libraries included in the package
* Utilities::			Utilities included in the package

Development

* Development Header Files::	Header Files in the package
* Static and Shared Libraries::	Libraries in the package
* Kernel Module Development::	Kernel development with the package
* Manual Pages::		Manual Pages in the package

Conformance

* TPI Compatibility::		Compatibility to Transport Provider Interface
* XTI Compatibility::		Compatibility to X/Open Transport Interface
* TLI Compatibility::		Compatibility to Transport Layer Interface

Releases

* Prerequisites::		Prerequisite packages
* Compatibility::		Compatibility Issues
* Release Notes::		Release Notes
* Maturity::			Package Maturity
* Bugs::			Package Defects
* Schedule::			Development and Bug Fix Schedule
* History::			Project History

Installation

* Downloading::			Downloading the package
* Configuration::		Configuration of the package
* Building::			Building the package
* Installing::			Installing the package
* Removing::			Removing the package
* Loading::			Loading the package
* Maintenance::			Maintaining the package

Troubleshooting

* Test Suites::			Test Suites for the package
* Problem Reports::		Problem Reports for the package
* Known Problems::		Known Probelms with the package

Appendices

Licenses

* GNU General Public License::		The GPL license
* GNU Lesser General Public License::	The LGPL license
* GNU Free Documentation License::	The FDL license

Indices

* Concept Index::		Index of Concepts
* Type Index::			Index of Data Types
* Function Index::		Index of Functions and Macros
* Variable Index::		Index of Variables and Constants
* File Index::			Index of Files and Programs
* Option Index::		Index of Configuration Options
* Makefile Target Index::	Index of Makefile Targets
* Author Index::		Index of Authors
* Manual Page Index::		Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@end menu

@c --------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@menu
* Notice::			Notices for this package
* Abstract::			Abstract for this manual
* Revisions::			Revisions of this manual
* Disclaimer::			IPR Disclaimers for this package
* Acknowledgements::		Sponsors of and Contributors to the package
* Authors::			Authors of the package
* Maintainer::			Maintainers of the package
* Web Resources::		Web Resources for the package
@end menu

@node Notice
@unnumberedsec Notice
@cindex manual notice
@cindex licensing

@ignore
Note that previous releases of the @samp{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}} package were intended to provide
additional support to GCOM release of @cite{LiS} and were released primarily in Tar Ball format.  As
of @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2-5 this is no longer the case.  @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2-5 and
subsequent releases are intended to be loaded on top of an OpenSS7 release of @cite{LiS} or Linux
Fast-STREAMS.  If you wish to use these packages over a GCOM release of @cite{LiS}, you will now
need to also download and install the @samp{strxns} package from Tar Ball.

@end ignore
This package is released and distributed under the @cite{GPL} (@pxrefman{GNU General Public
License}).  Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for the manual pages and
some of the documentation (derived from OpenGroup@footnote{Formerly X/Open and UNIX International.}
publications and other sources).  Consult the permission notices contained in the documentation for
more information.

This manual is released under the @cite{FDL} (@pxrefman{GNU Free Documentation License}) with all
sections invariant.

@node Abstract
@unnumberedsec Abstract
@cindex manual abstract

This manual provides a @cite{@value{MANUAL_TYPE}} for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

@unnumberedsubsec Objective
@cindex manual objective

The objective of this manual is to provide a guide for the @dfn{STREAMS} programmer when
developing @dfn{STREAMS} modules, drivers and application programs for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

This guide provides information to developers on the use of the @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism at user and
kernel levels.

@dfn{STREAMS} was incorporated in UNIX System V Release 3 to augment the character input/output
(I/O) mechanism and to support development of communication services.

@dfn{STREAMS} provides developers with integral functions, a set of utility routines, and facilities
that expedite software design and implementation.

@unnumberedsubsec Intent
@cindex manual intent

The intent of this manual is to act as an introductory guide to the @dfn{STREAMS} programmer.  It
is intended to be read alone and is not intended to replace or supplement the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} manual pages.  For a reference for writing code, the manual pages
(see @manref{STREAMS(9)}) provide a better reference to the programmer.
Although this describes the features of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package,
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any software,
system or feature listed herein.

@unnumberedsubsec Audience
@cindex manual audience

This manual is intended for a highly technical audience.  The reader should already be familiar
with @cite{Linux} kernel programming, the @cite{Linux} file system, character devices, driver input
and output, interrupts, software interrupt handling, scheduling, process contexts, multiprocessor
locks, etc.

The guide is intended for network and systems programmers, who use the @dfn{STREAMS} mechanism at
user and kernel levels for @cite{Linux} and @cite{UNIX} system communication services.

Readers of the guide are expected to possess prior knowledge of the @cite{Linux} and @cite{UNIX}
system, programming, networking, and data communication.

@node Revisions
@unnumberedsec Revisions
@cindex manual revisions

Take care that you are working with a current version of this manual: you will not be notified of
updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current version, contact the
@uref{mailto:bidulock@@openss7.org,Author}, or check @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,The OpenSS7
Project} website for a current version.

A current version of this manual is normally distributed with the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
package, @command{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}}.@footnote{@url{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2}}

@unnumberedsubsec Version Control

@smallexample

$Log: strxnet.texi,v $
Revision 0.9.2.30  2007/01/08 16:24:39  brian
- final updates for release

Revision 0.9.2.29  2007/01/03 12:33:12  brian
- corrections

Revision 0.9.2.28  2007/01/03 10:11:51  brian
- documentation updates for release

Revision 0.9.2.27  2006/10/02 11:32:23  brian
- changes to get master builds working for RPM and DEB
- added outside licenses to package documentation
- added LICENSE automated release file
- copy MANUAL to source directory
- add and remove devices in -dev debian subpackages
- get debian rules working better
- release library version files
- added notes to debian changelog
- corrections for cooked manual pages in spec files
- added release documentation to spec and rules files
- copyright header updates
- moved controlling tty checks in stream head
- missing some defines for LiS build in various source files
- added OSI headers to striso package
- added includes and manual page paths to acincludes for various packages
- added sunrpc, uidlpi, uinpi and uitpi licenses to documentation and release
  files
- moved pragma weak statements ahead of declarations
- changes for master build of RPMS and DEBS with LiS

Revision 0.9.2.26  2006/09/18 01:07:25  brian
- updated manuals and release texi docs

Revision 0.9.2.25  2006/08/28 10:47:12  brian
- correction

Revision 0.9.2.24  2006/08/28 10:33:01  brian
- updated references

Revision 0.9.2.23  2006/08/27 12:27:17  brian
- finalizing auto release files

Revision 0.9.2.22  2006/08/26 09:20:06  brian
- better release file generation

Revision 0.9.2.21  2006/08/23 11:00:52  brian
- added preface, corrections and updates for release

Revision 0.9.2.20  2006/08/22 12:57:36  brian
- updated documentation

Revision 0.9.2.19  2006/03/22 10:02:08  brian
- added makefile target index

Revision 0.9.2.18  2006/03/03 11:35:17  brian
- 32/64-bit compatibility

Revision 0.9.2.17  2005/07/08 13:16:22  brian
- updates to documentation

Revision 0.9.2.16  2005/06/24 13:39:00  brian
- added troubleshooting section to manuals

Revision 0.9.2.15  2005/05/14 08:28:28  brian
- copyright header correction

Revision 0.9.2.14  2005/04/12 23:01:47  brian
- correct docs

Revision 0.9.2.13  2005/04/12 09:29:03  brian
- corrections

Revision 0.9.2.12  2005/04/11 20:48:42  brian
- documentation updates and corrections

Revision 0.9.2.11  2005/03/15 00:56:46  brian
- Updated version numbering in texinfo files.

Revision 0.9.2.10  2005/03/15 00:51:43  brian
- Updated version numbering in texinfo files.

Revision 0.9.2.9  2005/02/17 20:00:25  brian
- Fixes for texi documentation.

Revision 0.9.2.8  2005/01/24 11:57:58  brian
- Updated texinfo headers.

Revision 0.9.2.7  2004/12/19 15:15:21  brian
- Corrected include position.

Revision 0.9.2.6  2004/08/22 00:00:07  brian
- Converted over to common files.

Revision 0.9.2.5  2004/08/20 21:14:13  brian
- Updated documentation.

Revision 0.9.2.4  2004/08/17 11:51:00  brian
- Updating documentation.

Revision 0.9.2.3  2004/08/16 11:39:56  brian
- Documetnation updates and copying options.

Revision 0.9.2.2  2004/08/15 19:56:44  brian
- Build and manual updates.

Revision 0.9.2.1  2004/04/06 12:33:59  brian
- Working up documentation.

Revision 0.9  2004/04/03 22:37:07  brian
- Initial cut of new strxnet rpm release.

@end smallexample

@unnumberedsubsec ISO 9000 Compliance

Only the @TeX{}, texinfo, or roff source for this manual is controlled.  An opaque (printed,
postscript or portable manual format) version of this manual is an @strong{UNCONTROLLED
VERSION}.

@node Disclaimer
@unnumberedsec Disclaimer
@cindex manual disclaimer

@noindent
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all
implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title;
that the contents of the manual are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} be liable for any direct, indirect, special or
consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with
any use of this manual or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.

@noindent
@cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any
reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies,
utilization of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the
design of any techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  @cite{OpenSS7
Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@unnumberedsubsec U.S. Government Restricted Rights

If you are licensing this Software on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it is
classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to
the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government is
acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights customarily provided to
non-Government users).  If the Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other
than DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights in the
Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any
successor regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to
the FAR (or any successor regulations).

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Acknowledgements
@unnumberedsec Acknowledgements
@cindex credits

@include texi/funding.texi

@node Authors
@unnumberedsec Authors
@cindex authors

The authors of the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package include:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
@auindex Bidulock, Brian
@end multitable

See @refman{Author Index}, for a complete listing and cross-index of authors to
sections of this manual.

@node Maintainer
@unnumberedsec Maintainer
@cindex maintainer

The maintainer of the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
@end multitable

Please send bug reports to @email{@value{PACKAGE_BUGREPORT}} using the @file{send-pr} script
included in the package, only after reading the @file{BUGS} file in the release, or @xrefman{Problem
Reports}.

@node Web Resources
@unnumberedsec Web Resources
@cindex web resources

@include texi/mail.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Quick Start Guide
@unnumbered Quick Start Guide
@cindex quick start guide

@include texi/quick.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@cindex introduction

This manual documents the design, implementation, installation, operation and future development
schedule of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Overview::			Overview
* Organization::		Organization
* Conventions::			Conventions
@end menu

@ignore
@node Notice
@section Notice
@cindex notice
@cindex licensing

Note that previous releases of the @samp{@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}} package were intended to provide
additional support to GCOM release of @cite{LiS} and were released primarily in Tar Ball format.  As of
@value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2-5 this is no longer the case.  @value{PACKAGE_TARNAME}-0.9.2-5 and
subsequent releases are intended to be loaded on top of an OpenSS7 release of @cite{LiS} or Linux
Fast-STREAMS.  If you wish to use these packages over a GCOM release of @cite{LiS}, you will now need to
also download and install the @samp{strxns} package from Tar Ball.

This package is released and distributed under the @cite{GPL} (@pxrefman{GNU General Public
License}).  Please note, however, that there are different licensing terms for the manual pages and
some of the documentation (derived from OpenGroup@footnote{Formerly X/Open and UNIX International.}
publications and other sources).  Consult the permission notices contained in the documentation for
more information.

This manual is released under the @cite{FDL} (@pxrefman{GNU Free Documentation License}) with all
sections invariant.
@end ignore

@node Overview
@section Overview
@cindex overview

This manual documents the design, implementation, installation, operation and future development of
the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package is
an X/Open Transport Interface (XTI/TLI) package for Linux
that can be used with
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}@footnote{@xref{Top, Linux Fast-STREAMS, About This Manual, STREAMS, Linux Fast-STREAMS (LfS) Reference Manual}.}.
@ignore
or
@cite{Linux STREAMS}@footnote{@xref{Top, Linux STREAMS (LiS), About This Manual, LiS, Linux STREAMS (LiS) Reference Manual}.}.
@end ignore
It includes development tools, header files and manual pages for

@itemize
@item @cite{Transport Provider Interface}
@item @cite{OpenSS7 XTI/TLi Library}
@end itemize

@noindent
In addition, it provides STREAMS drivers and modules for DLPI including:

@itemize
@item Transport Interface Module (@file{streams-timod.o}), and
@item Transport Interface Read-Write Modules (@file{streams-tirdwr.o}).
@end itemize

@noindent
The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package is essential to the development and support of
X/Open XTI/TLI
modules and drivers and provides a fundamental set of
X/Open
header files and manual pages for such development.

The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} does @emph{not} provide the X/Open Network Services (XNS), Network
Provider Interface (NPI) or Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) components.  See the OpenSS7
@command{strxns}@footnote{@xref{Top, OpenSS7 XNS Networking, About This Manual, strxns, OpenSS7 XNS Networking Installation and Reference Manual}.}
package.

@node Organization
@section Organization of this Manual
@cindex organization

This manual is organized (loosely) into several sections as follows:

@ifnottex
@menu
  Introduction::		This introduction
* Objective::			Objective of the package
* Reference::			Contents of the package
* Development::			Developing with the package
* Conformance::			Conformance of the package
* Releases::			Releases of the package
* Installation::		Installation of the package
* Troubleshooting::		Troubleshooting of the package
@end menu
@end ifnottex
@ifnotinfo
@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @ref{Introduction}.
@tab This introduction
@item @ref{Objective}.
@tab Objective of the package
@item @ref{Reference}.
@tab Contents of the package
@item @ref{Development}.
@tab Developing with the package
@item @ref{Conformance}.
@tab Conformance of the package
@item @ref{Releases}.
@tab Releases of the package
@item @ref{Installation}.
@tab Installation of the package
@item @ref{Troubleshooting}.
@tab Troubleshooting of the package
@end multitable
@end ifnotinfo
@ifplaintext
@multitable @columnfractions .50 .50
@item @cite{Introduction}.
@tab This introduction
@item @cite{Objective}.
@tab Objective of the package
@item @cite{Reference}.
@tab Contents of the package
@item @cite{Development}.
@tab Developing with the package
@item @cite{Conformance}.
@tab Conformance of the package
@item @cite{Releases}.
@tab Releases of the package
@item @cite{Installation}.
@tab Installation of the package
@item @cite{Troubleshooting}.
@tab Troubleshooting of the package
@end multitable
@end ifplaintext

@node Conventions
@section Conventions and Definitions
@cindex conventions
@cindex definitions

This manual uses @cite{texinfo} typographic conventions.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Objective
@chapter Objective
@cindex objective

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is intended to provide compatibility with @cite{UNIX System
V Release 4} networking components based on the Transport Provider Interface and the XTI/TLI
interface described in X/Open Networking Services, in a single add-on package to @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.  One purpose in achieving this compatibility is the porting of legacy applications
from @cite{UNIX} to @cite{Linux} using the capabilities of @dfn{STREAMS} and @cite{Linux
Fast-STREAMS}.

Both the Transport Provider Interface and the XTI/TLI library APIs are designed to be transport
provider neutral.  Both the service primitive interface and function call interface are designed to
be transport provider independent to as large a degree as possible.  Therefore, this
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package does not provide any transport providers of its own.  It merely
provides the Transport Provider Interface and the XTI/TLI library interface and applies them in a
transport independent fashion to a wide range of specific transport protocols.

For transport providers based on the Internet Protocol suite, the
@file{strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}} package, @manref{strinet(5)}, provides TPI and XTI/TLI
compatible transport providers; the @file{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}} package,
@manref{strsctp(5)}, provides a TPI and XTI compatible implementation of the Stream Control
Transmission Protocol (SCTP) for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.  The
@file{striso-@value{VERSION_STRISO}} package, @manref{striso(5)}, provides TPI and XTI compliant
transport providers for OSI/ISO protocols.

At the time that the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} was being developed there existed an XTI
implementation written by Ole Husgaard, but the tirdwr and timod modules were deeply flawed and the
library itself was not thread-safe and did not support all functions and capabilities of XTI.
Therefore, the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} @dfn{STREAMS} modules and library were written from the
start to be thread-safe and fully compliant with the XTI/TLI specifications in XNS
5.2.@footnote{@cite{The Open Group} making the specifications available for individual download
helped.}

The result is a stable, production grade, 64-bit clean XTI/TLI library implementation for
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Reference
@chapter Reference
@cindex reference

@menu
* Files::			Files included in the package
* Drivers::			Drivers included in the package
* Modules::			Modules included in the package
* Libraries::			Libraries included in the package
* Utilities::			Utilities included in the package
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Files
@section Files
@cindex headers

@include tree.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Drivers
@section Drivers
@cindex drivers

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package does not provide any @dfn{STREAMS} drivers: only
@dfn{STREAMS} modules.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Modules
@section Modules
@cindex modules

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provides the following @dfn{STREAMS} modules:

@subsection Transport Interface Module

@subsubheading Licensing

The @manref{timod(4)} module is licensed under the @cite{GPL Version 2} (@pxrefman{GNU Generic
Public License}).
Other licensing terms are available from @email{sales@@openss7.com, OpenSS7 Corporation}.


@subsection Transport Interface Read-Write Module

@subsubheading Licensing

The @manref{tirdwr(4)} module is licensed under the @cite{GPL Version 2} (@pxrefman{GNU Generic
Public License}).
Other licensing terms are available from @email{sales@@openss7.com, OpenSS7 Corporation}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Libraries
@section Libraries
@cindex libraries

During the installation process of @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} a subroutine library is build and
installed.  For 64-bit systems that support 32-bit compatibility, two version of each library are
build and installed: one 64-bit native library and one 32-bit compatibility library.  64-bit native
libraries are installed to the @file{/usr/lib64} subdirectory.  32-bit native and 32-bit
compatibility libraries are installed to the @file{/usr/lib} subdirectory.

@table @file

@item libxnet.so.0.0.0
@itemx libxnet.so.0
@itemx libxnet.so
Provides a shared object library for use by @dfn{XTI/TLI} applications programs.

@item libxnet.a
Provides a static library for use by @dfn{XTI/TLI} applications programs.

@item libxnet.la
Provides the @command{libtool} definitions for the libraries.

@end table

@subsection libxnet Library Routines

The following routines are present in the @file{libxnet} libraries.  The routines in these libraries
are standard @dfn{XTI/TLI} interface library calls documented in XNS 5.2.@footnote{XNS Issue 5.2
Draft 2.0, @i{Technical Standard: Network Services (XNS)}, 1999, Open Group, Open Group Publication.
[ISBN 1-85912-241-8].}  Refer to the associated manual pages for detailed information on these
routines.

@multitable @columnfractions .35 .65

@item @manref{t_accept(3)} -- @tab accept a connection request.
@item @manref{t_addleaf(3)} -- @tab add a point to a point-to-multipoint connection.
@item @manref{t_alloc(3)} -- @tab allocate a library structure.
@item @manref{t_bind(3)} -- @tab bind to a transport endpoint.
@item @manref{t_close(3)} -- @tab close a transport endpoint.
@item @manref{t_connect(3)} -- @tab establish a transport connection.
@item @manref{t_errlist(3)} -- @tab describe an XTI/TLI library error.
@item @manref{t_errno(3)} -- @tab TLI error number.
@item @manref{t_error(3)} -- @tab print an error message.
@item @manref{t_errstr(3)} -- @tab describe an XTI/TLI library error.
@item @manref{t_free(3)} -- @tab free an XTI/TLI library structure.
@item @manref{t_getinfo(3)} -- @tab get protocol information.
@item @manref{t_getprotaddr(3)} -- @tab get protocol addresses.
@item @manref{t_getstate(3)} -- @tab get interface state.
@item @manref{t_listen(3)} -- @tab listen for a transport connection request.
@item @manref{t_look(3)} -- @tab look for a transport event.
@item @manref{t_nerr(3)} -- @tab describe an XTI/TLI library error.
@item @manref{t_open(3)} -- @tab open a transport endpoint.
@item @manref{t_optmgmt(3)} -- @tab manage transport options.
@item @manref{t_rcv(3)} -- @tab receive transport data.
@item @manref{t_rcvconnect(3)} -- @tab receive connection request confirmation.
@item @manref{t_rcvdis(3)} -- @tab receive abortive disconnect.
@item @manref{t_rcvleafchange(3)} -- @tab receive addition of point to point-to-multipoint connection.
@item @manref{t_rcvopt(3)} -- @tab receive unit data.
@item @manref{t_rcvrel(3)} -- @tab acknowledge orderly release request.
@item @manref{t_rcvreldata(3)} -- @tab acknowledge orderly release request with data.
@item @manref{t_rcvudata(3)} -- @tab receive unit data.
@item @manref{t_rcvuderr(3)} -- @tab receive unit data error.
@item @manref{t_rcvv(3)} -- @tab receive data and scatter.
@item @manref{t_rcvvopt(3)} -- @tab receive data with options and scatter.
@item @manref{t_rcvvudata(3)} -- @tab receive unit data and scatter.
@item @manref{t_removeleaf(3)} -- @tab remove a point from a point-to-multipoint connection.
@item @manref{t_snd(3)} -- @tab send transport data.
@item @manref{t_snddis(3)} -- @tab send abortive disconnect.
@item @manref{t_sndopt(3)} -- @tab send transport data with options.
@item @manref{t_sndrel(3)} -- @tab send orderly release.
@item @manref{t_sndreldata(3)} -- @tab send orderly release with data.
@item @manref{t_sndudata(3)} -- @tab send unit data.
@item @manref{t_sndv(3)} -- @tab gather and send data.
@item @manref{t_sndvopt(3)} -- @tab gather and send data with options.
@item @manref{t_sndvudata(3)} -- @tab gather and send unit data.
@item @manref{t_strerror(3)} -- @tab describe an XTI/TLI library error.
@item @manref{t_sync(3)} -- @tab synchronize XTI/TLI library with TLI provider.
@item @manref{t_sysconf(3)} -- @tab configure XTI/TLI library parameters.
@item @manref{t_unbind(3)} -- @tab unbind a transport endpoint.

@end multitable

@subsection Using the Library

The use the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} libraries, include the file @file{xti.h} in the application
program source code.  On the compiler command line, add the option
@samp{-I/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}} to include the version of @file{xti.h} that is distributed
with @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

When linking the application program, or performing final @command{gcc} to build an executable,
include one of the following option on the @command{gcc} or @command{ld} command line:

@table @samp

@item /usr/lib/libxnet.a
@itemx -lstreams -static
Links against the static version of the library.

@item -lstreams
@itemx -lstreams -shared
Links against the shared object version of the library.

@item /usr/lib/libxnet.la
Used with @command{libtool} to link additional convenience libraries against the shared or static
version of the library.

@end table

Failure to link the executable runtime path for @file{libxnet} will result in linker-loader errors
specifying undefined symbols.  See @refman{Development}, for more information.

@subsubheading Licensing

The @manref{libxnet(3)} library is licensed under the @cite{LGPL Version 2.1} (@pxrefman{GNU Lesser
Public License}).
Other licensing terms are available from @email{sales@@openss7.com, OpenSS7 Corporation}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Utilities
@section Utilities
@cindex utilities

@subsection Init Scripts

Following are System V Init Scripts that are installed by the package:

@table @asis

@item @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(8)} (@file{/etc/init.d/@value{PACKAGE}})
@pgindex @value{PACKAGE}
@pgindex /etc/init.d/@value{PACKAGE}
@itemx @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}.sh(8)} (@file{/etc/init.d/@value{PACKAGE}.sh})
@pgindex @value{PACKAGE}.sh
@pgindex /etc/init.d/@value{PACKAGE}.sh

System V Init Script for the @dfn{XNET} Subsystem.
The @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(8)} init script provides the ability to initialize, configure and mount the
@dfn{XNS} subsystem, @manpage{strxnet(5)}.
The @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(8)} script provides the RedHat-style init script, whereas the
@manpage{@value{PACKAGE}.sh(8)} script provides the Debian-style init script.

See @manref{@value{PACKAGE}(8)} for more information.

@end table

@subsection Administrative Utilities

Following are user utilities for manipulating @dfn{XNET}:

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package does not yet contain any adminstrative utilities.
Eventually an @manpage{xtitrace(8)} facility will be provided.

@subsection Performance Test Programs

Following are performance test programs:

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package does not yet contain any performance programs.  For
performance testing of various transport providers, see the @file{netperf-@value{VERSION_NETPERF}}
package.

@subsection Conformance Test Programs

Following are conformance and validation test programs included in the package:

@table @asis

@item @manref{test-timod(8)} (@file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE}/test-timod})
The @manpage{test-timod(8)} C-language program is a conformance and validation test program, in the
OpenSS7 Project style, for the @manref{timod(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} module.

@item @manref{test-tirdwr(8)} (@file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE}/test-tirdwr})
The @manpage{test-tirdwr(8)} C-language program is a conformance and validation test program, in the
OpenSS7 Project style, for the @manref{tirdwr(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} module.

@item @manref{test-xnet(8)} (@file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE}/test-xnet})
The @manpage{test-xnet(8)} C-language program is a conformance and validation test program, in the
OpenSS7 Project style, for the @manref{xnet(3)} library.  This test program is single-threaded.

@item @manref{test-xnet_thr(8)} (@file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE}/test-xnet_thr})
The @manpage{test-xnet(8)} C-language program is a conformance and validation test program, in the
OpenSS7 Project style, for the @manref{xnet(3)} library.  This test program is multiple-threaded.

@item @file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE}/testsuite}
@itemx @file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE}/atlocal}
The OpenSS7 Project style @command{autotest} test suite.  This test suite can be run stand-alone as
described under @refman{Running Test Suites}.  The @file{atlocal} file provides localized
definitions for the test suite.

@end table

For the proper way to execute these validation test programs in a conformance and validation test
suite, see @refman{Running Test Suites}.

@subsection Problem Report Scripts

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package installs customized problem reporting scripts for reporting
problems associated with test suite execution and other difficulties.  This problem reporting script
is installed in the @file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE}/} subdirectory as follows:

@table @asis

@item @file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE}/send-pr}
@itemx @file{/usr/libexec/@value{PACKAGE}/send-pr.config}
This is the problem reporting script tailored for the @file{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}}
package.  The @file{send-pr} file is the script proper and the @file{send-pr.config} file contains
localized configuration information.

@end table

For more information on the use of the problem reporting scripts, see @refman{Generating Problem
Reports}.

@c @subsection @command{test-xnet}

@c Note that @command{test-xnet} is maintained as a manual page,
@c @manref{test-xnet(8)}.


@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Development
@chapter Development
@cindex developing

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} provides all of the header files, shared object and static libraries,
manual pages and documentation necessary for the development of both user space applications
programs and kernel space @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers based on the package.  The sections that
follow describe these development facilities.

@menu
* Development Header Files::
* Static and Shared Libraries::
* Kernel Module Development::
* Manual Pages::
@end menu

@node Development Header Files::
@section Header Files

Header files are installed, typically, in the @file{/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/} subdirectory.  To
use the header files from the package, @samp{-I/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}} must be included in the
@command{gcc} command line as a preprocessor option.

In general, @samp{-I} include preprocessor directives on the @command{gcc} command line should be
ordered in the reverse order of the dependencies between packages.  So, for example, if the include
files from all add-on packages are required, the order of these directives would be:
@samp{-I/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}}
@samp{-I/usr/include/strxns}
@samp{-I/usr/include/strcompat}
@samp{-I/usr/include/streams}.

Following are the user visible header files provided by the @file{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}}
package in the directory @file{/usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}}:

@table @file

@item sys/strxnet/config.h
@pgindex sys/strxnet/config.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/strxnet/config.h
Configuration defines for the package.

@item sys/strxnet/version.h
@pgindex sys/strxnet/version.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/strxnet/version.h
Module versions for the package (on 2.4 systems).

@item tihdr.h
@pgindex tihdr.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/tihdr.h
@itemx sys/tihdr.h
@pgindex sys/tihdr.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/tihdr.h
Primary header file defining the Transport Provider Interface for use by kernel space programs.
This file is normally included directly by kernel modules implementing the Transport Provider
Interface.
See @manref{tpi(7)} for more information.

@item tiuser.h
@pgindex tiuser.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/tiuser.h
@itemx sys/tiuser.h
@pgindex sys/tiuser.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/tiuser.h
Primary header file defining the Transport Provider Interface for use by user space programs.
This file is normally included directly by applications programs directly using the Transport
Provider Interface.
See @manref{tpi(7)} for more information.

@item timod.h
@pgindex timod.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/timod.h
@itemx sys/timod.h
@pgindex sys/timod.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/timod.h
Header file defining the input-output control interface to the @manpage{timod(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} module.
THis file is normally only included by the XTI/TLI library.
See @manref{timod(4)} for more information.

@item tirdwr.h
@pgindex tirdwr.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/tirdwr.h
@itemx sys/tirdwr.h
@pgindex sys/tirdwr.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/tirdwr.h
Header file defining the input-output control interface to the @manpage{tirdwr(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} module.
This header file is normaly only included by the XTI/TLI library.
See @manref{tirdwr(4)} for more information.

@item sys/tli.h
@pgindex sys/tli.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/tli.h
Header file defining the TLI library interface.
This header file is included by applications programs wishing to use the TLI library interface.
See @manref{tli(3)} for more information.

@item sys/tpi.h
@pgindex sys/tpi.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/tpi.h
Header file defining the Transport Provider Interface.
This head file is normally included by kernel modules implementing the Transport Provider Interface.
See @manref{tpi(7)} for more information.

@item ticlts.h
@pgindex ticlts.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/ticlts.h
@itemx sys/ticlts.h
@pgindex sys/ticlts.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/ticlts.h
Header file providing Transport Provider Interface definitions for the connectionless transport
interface.
This header file is not used.

@item ticots.h
@pgindex ticots.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/ticots.h
@itemx sys/ticots.h
@pgindex sys/ticots.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/ticots.h
Header file providing Transport Provider Interface definitions for the connection-oriented transport
interface.
This header file is not used.

@item ticotsord.h
@pgindex ticotsord.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/ticotsord.h
@itemx sys/ticotsord.h
@pgindex sys/ticotsord.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/ticotsord.h
Header file providing Transport Provider Interface definitions for the connection-oriented with
orderly release transport interface.
This header file is not used.

@item xti.h
@pgindex xti.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/xti.h
@itemx xti_inet.h
@pgindex xti_inet.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/xti_inet.h
@itemx sys/xti.h
@pgindex sys/xti.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti.h
Primary header files defining the XTI library interface.
This header file is normally included by applications programs wishing to use the XTI library
interface.
See @manref{xti(3)} for more information.

@item sys/xti_local.h
@pgindex sys/xti_local.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_local.h
System specific header file for the Local XTI library interface.
This header file is normally included by @file{xti.h} and does not need to be directly included by
the applications program.
See @manref{xti(3)} for more information.

@item sys/xti_xti.h
@pgindex sys/xti_xti.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_xti.h
System specific header file for the Generic XTI library interface.
This header file is normally included by @file{xti.h} and does not need to be directly included by
the applications program.
See @manref{xti(3)} for more information.

@item sys/xti_inet.h
@pgindex sys/xti_inet.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_inet.h
System specific header file for the Internet Protocol Suite XTI library interface.
This header file is normally included by @file{xti.h} and does not need to be directly included by
the applications program.
See @manref{xti(3)} for more information.

@item sys/xti_ip.h
@pgindex sys/xti_ip.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_ip.h
System specific header file for the Internet Protocol XTI library interface.
This header file is normally included by @file{xti.h} and does not need to be directly included by
the applications program.
See @manref{xti(3)} for more information.

@item sys/xti_udp.h
@pgindex sys/xti_udp.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_udp.h
System specific header file for the User Datagram Protocol XTI library interface.
This header file is normally included by @file{xti.h} and does not need to be directly included by
the applications program.
See @manref{xti(3)} for more information.

@item sys/xti_tcp.h
@pgindex sys/xti_tcp.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_tcp.h
System specific header file for the Transmission Control Protocol XTI library interface.
This header file is normally included by @file{xti.h} and does not need to be directly included by
the applications program.
See @manref{xti(3)} for more information.

@item sys/xti_sctp.h
@pgindex sys/xti_sctp.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_sctp.h
System specific header file for the Stream Control Transmission Protocol XTI library interface.
This header file is normally included by @file{xti.h} and does not need to be directly included by
the applications program.
See @manref{xti(3)} for more information.

@item sys/xti_osi.h
@pgindex sys/xti_osi.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_osi.h
System specific header file for the OSI/ISO XTI library interface.
This header file is normally included by @file{xti.h} and does not need to be directly included by
the applications program.
See @manref{xti(3)} for more information.

@item sys/xti_mosi.h
@pgindex sys/xti_mosi.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_mosi.h
System specific header file for the Minimal OSI XTI library interface.
This header file is normally included by @file{xti.h} and does not need to be directly included by
the applications program.
See @manref{xti(3)} for more information.

@item sys/xti_atm.h
@pgindex sys/xti_atm.h
@pgindex /usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_atm.h
System specific header file for the Asynchronous Transfer Mode XTI library interface.
This header file is normally included by @file{xti.h} and does not need to be directly included by
the applications program.
See @manref{xti(3)} for more information.

@end table

@subsection User Space Programs

Typical include files for interacting with Transport providers from user space include the
@file{tli.h}, @file{xti.h}, or @cite{tiuser.h} header files.  Additional header files for
interacting with specific drivers or modules may also be required.  The @cite{tli.h} header file 
is used for interacting with the old TLI library.  The @cite{xti.h} header file is for interacting
with the newer XTI library.  The @cite{tiuser.h} header file is for directly passing TPI service
primitives to and from the Transport provider using @manpage{getpmsg(2)} and @manpage{putpmsg(2s)}.

@subsection Kernel Space Drivers and Modules

Typical include files for writing @dfn{STREAMS} module and drivers implementing transport providers
in kernels space include @cite{tihdr.h} or @cite{tpi.h}.  Both header files provide access to
definitions for the TPI interface and additional XTI definitions for use by @dfn{STREAMS} drivers
and modules.  Additional header files for interacting with specific drivers or modules may also be
required.

Aside from including these header files, the general procedures for compiling @dfn{STREAMS} modules
and drivers also apply to @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers written to the Transport Provider
Interface.  Examples can be found in the @file{strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}},
@file{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}} and @file{striso-@value{VERSION_STRISO}} packages that
implement a number of transport providers.

@node Static and Shared Libraries
@section Libraries

Shared or static version of the @cite{libxnet} library must be linked when using the
@file{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}} package.  The library must either be specified on the
@command{gcc} command line as a shared library (e.g. @samp{-lxnet}) or as a static library (e.g.
@samp{/usr/lib/libxnet.a}).

If the shared object library is linked, include the following options on the @command{gcc} command
line:

@table @samp

@item -lxnet
Link to the @file{/usr/lib/libxnet.so} shared library.

@end table

If the static library is linked, include the following options on the @command{gcc} command line:

@table @samp

@item /usr/lib/libxnet.a
Link to the @file{/usr/lib/libxnet.a} static library.

@end table

@node Kernel Module Development
@section Kernel Modules

Developing TPI kernel modules is similar to user space programs with regard to header files.
@file{/usr/include/strxnet} should be placed as an include directory to search on the @command{gcc}
command line.  The rules for compiling @cite{Linux} kernel modules and the rules for compiling
@dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers should be followed.  In particular, several important intricacies
should be considered:

@itemize @bullet

@item The @command{gcc} compiler used to compile the kernel modules must be the same version of
compiler that was used to compile the kernel and @dfn{STREAMS} base package.

@item The @command{gcc} command line must have the same compile flags that were used to compile the
kernel and @dfn{STREAMS} base package.  @command{kbuild} can be used to accomplish this.

@item The @command{gcc} command line must define several important kernel defines including
@samp{-DLINUX}, @samp{-D__KERNEL__}, as well as the basename of the module.  Again, @command{kbuild}
can be used to accomplish this.

@item The @command{gcc} command line must include several important files directly on the command
line, such as, @samp{--include /@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-build/@-include/@-linux/@-autoconf.h} and
@samp{--include /@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-build/@-include/@-linux/@-modversions.h}.@footnote{The
kernel version, @samp{@value{_kversion}}, is just an example.  For the running kernel, use the
output of @samp{uname -r}.}

@end itemize

@node Manual Pages
@section Manual Pages

The @file{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}} package installs a number of manual pages in the
@file{/usr/share/man} directory as follows:

The following manual pages are installed in Section 3 of the manual (in the subdirectory
@file{/usr/share/man/man3}):

@multitable @columnfractions .35 .65

@item @manref{t_accept(3)} -- @tab accept a connection request.
@item @manref{t_addleaf(3)} -- @tab add a point to a point-to-multipoint connection.
@item @manref{t_alloc(3)} -- @tab allocate a library structure.
@item @manref{t_bind(3)} -- @tab bind to a transport endpoint.
@item @manref{t_close(3)} -- @tab close a transport endpoint.
@item @manref{t_connect(3)} -- @tab establish a transport connection.
@item @manref{t_errlist(3)} -- @tab describe an XTI/TLI library error.
@item @manref{t_errno(3)} -- @tab TLI error number.
@item @manref{t_error(3)} -- @tab print an error message.
@item @manref{t_errstr(3)} -- @tab describe an XTI/TLI library error.
@item @manref{t_free(3)} -- @tab free an XTI/TLI library structure.
@item @manref{t_getinfo(3)} -- @tab get protocol information.
@item @manref{t_getprotaddr(3)} -- @tab get protocol addresses.
@item @manref{t_getstate(3)} -- @tab get interface state.
@item @manref{t_listen(3)} -- @tab listen for a transport connection request.
@item @manref{t_look(3)} -- @tab look for a transport event.
@item @manref{t_nerr(3)} -- @tab describe an XTI/TLI library error.
@item @manref{t_open(3)} -- @tab open a transport endpoint.
@item @manref{t_optmgmt(3)} -- @tab manage transport options.
@item @manref{t_rcv(3)} -- @tab receive transport data.
@item @manref{t_rcvconnect(3)} -- @tab receive connection request confirmation.
@item @manref{t_rcvdis(3)} -- @tab receive abortive disconnect.
@item @manref{t_rcvleafchange(3)} -- @tab receive addition of point to point-to-multipoint connection.
@item @manref{t_rcvopt(3)} -- @tab receive unit data.
@item @manref{t_rcvrel(3)} -- @tab acknowledge orderly release request.
@item @manref{t_rcvreldata(3)} -- @tab acknowledge orderly release request with data.
@item @manref{t_rcvudata(3)} -- @tab receive unit data.
@item @manref{t_rcvuderr(3)} -- @tab receive unit data error.
@item @manref{t_rcvv(3)} -- @tab receive data and scatter.
@item @manref{t_rcvvopt(3)} -- @tab receive data with options and scatter.
@item @manref{t_rcvvudata(3)} -- @tab receive unit data and scatter.
@item @manref{t_removeleaf(3)} -- @tab remove a point from a point-to-multipoint connection.
@item @manref{t_snd(3)} -- @tab send transport data.
@item @manref{t_snddis(3)} -- @tab send abortive disconnect.
@item @manref{t_sndopt(3)} -- @tab send transport data with options.
@item @manref{t_sndrel(3)} -- @tab send orderly release.
@item @manref{t_sndreldata(3)} -- @tab send orderly release with data.
@item @manref{t_sndudata(3)} -- @tab send unit data.
@item @manref{t_sndv(3)} -- @tab gather and send data.
@item @manref{t_sndvopt(3)} -- @tab gather and send data with options.
@item @manref{t_sndvudata(3)} -- @tab gather and send unit data.
@item @manref{t_strerror(3)} -- @tab describe an XTI/TLI library error.
@item @manref{t_sync(3)} -- @tab synchronize XTI/TLI library with TLI provider.
@item @manref{t_sysconf(3)} -- @tab configure XTI/TLI library parameters.
@item @manref{t_unbind(3)} -- @tab unbind a transport endpoint.
@item @manref{xnet(3)} -- @tab @cite{XNS 5.2} XTI/TLI Library (@file{libxnet})
@item @manref{xti(3)} -- @tab @cite{XNS 5.2} XTI/TLI Library (@file{libxnet})

@end multitable

The following manual pages are installed in Section 4 of the manual (in the subdirectory
@file{/usr/share/man/man4}):

@multitable @columnfractions .35 .65

@item @manref{timod(4)} -- @tab a @dfn{STREAMS} XTI/TLI compatibility interface.
@item @manref{tirdwr(4)} -- @tab a @dfn{STREAMS} XTI/TLI read write compatibility module.

@end multitable

The following manual pages are installed in Section 5 of the manual (in the subdirectory
@file{/usr/share/man/man5}):

@multitable @columnfractions .35 .65

@item @manref{strxnet(5)} -- @tab @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.

@end multitable

The following manual pages are installed in Section 7 of the manual (in the subdirectory
@file{/usr/share/man/man7}):

@multitable @columnfractions .35 .65

@item @manref{tpi(7)} -- @tab Transport Provider Interface
@item @manref{T_ADDR_ACK(7)} -- @tab protocol address acknowledgement.
@item @manref{T_ADDR_REQ(7)} -- @tab get protocol address request.
@item @manref{T_BIND_ACK(7)} -- @tab bind protocol address acknowledgement.
@item @manref{T_BIND_REQ(7)} -- @tab bind protocol address request.
@item @manref{T_CAPABILITY_ACK(7)} -- @tab protocol capability acknowledgement.
@item @manref{T_CAPABILITY_REQ(7)} -- @tab protocol capability acknowledgement.
@item @manref{T_CONN_CON(7)} -- @tab connection confirm.
@item @manref{T_CONN_IND(7)} -- @tab connect indication.
@item @manref{T_CONN_REQ(7)} -- @tab connect request.
@item @manref{T_CONN_RES(7)} -- @tab connection response.
@item @manref{T_DATA_IND(7)} -- @tab data indication.
@item @manref{T_DATA_REQ(7)} -- @tab data request.
@item @manref{T_DISCON_IND(7)} -- @tab disconnect indication.
@item @manref{T_DISCON_REQ(7)} -- @tab disconnect request.
@item @manref{T_ERROR_ACK(7)} -- @tab error acknowledgement.
@item @manref{T_EXDATA_IND(7)} -- @tab expedited data indication.
@item @manref{T_EXDATA_REQ(7)} -- @tab expedited data request.
@item @manref{T_INFO_ACK(7)} -- @tab protocol information acknowledgement.
@item @manref{T_INFO_REQ(7)} -- @tab get transport protocol parameter sizes.
@item @manref{T_OK_ACK(7)} -- @tab success acknowledgement.
@item @manref{T_OPTDATA_IND(7)} -- @tab data indication with options.
@item @manref{T_OPTDATA_REQ(7)} -- @tab data request with options.
@item @manref{T_OPTMGMT_ACK(7)} -- @tab options management acknowledgement.
@item @manref{T_OPTMGMT_REQ(7)} -- @tab options management.
@item @manref{T_ORDREL_IND(7)} -- @tab orderly release indication.
@item @manref{T_ORDREL_REQ(7)} -- @tab orderly release request.
@item @manref{T_UDERROR_IND(7)} -- @tab unit data error indication.
@item @manref{T_UNBIND_REQ(7)} -- @tab unbind protocol address request.
@item @manref{T_UNITDATA_IND(7)} -- @tab unit data indication.
@item @manref{T_UNITDATA_REQ(7)} -- @tab unit data request.
@item @manref{T_addr_ack(7)} -- @tab protocol address acknowledgement.
@item @manref{T_addr_req(7)} -- @tab get protocol address request.
@item @manref{T_bind_ack(7)} -- @tab bind protocol address acknowledgement.
@item @manref{T_bind_req(7)} -- @tab bind protocol address request.
@item @manref{T_capability_ack(7)} -- @tab protocol capability acknowledgement.
@item @manref{T_capability_req(7)} -- @tab protocol capability acknowledgement.
@item @manref{T_conn_con(7)} -- @tab connection confirm.
@item @manref{T_conn_ind(7)} -- @tab connect indication.
@item @manref{T_conn_req(7)} -- @tab connect request.
@item @manref{T_conn_res(7)} -- @tab connection response.
@item @manref{T_data_ind(7)} -- @tab data indication.
@item @manref{T_data_req(7)} -- @tab data request.
@item @manref{T_discon_ind(7)} -- @tab disconnect indication.
@item @manref{T_discon_req(7)} -- @tab disconnect request.
@item @manref{T_error_ack(7)} -- @tab error acknowledgement.
@item @manref{T_exdata_ind(7)} -- @tab expedited data indication.
@item @manref{T_exdata_req(7)} -- @tab expedited data request.
@item @manref{T_info_ack(7)} -- @tab protocol information acknowledgement.
@item @manref{T_info_req(7)} -- @tab get transport protocol parameter sizes.
@item @manref{T_ok_ack(7)} -- @tab success acknowledgement.
@item @manref{T_optdata_ind(7)} -- @tab data indication with options.
@item @manref{T_optdata_req(7)} -- @tab data request with options.
@item @manref{T_optmgmt_ack(7)} -- @tab options management acknowledgement.
@item @manref{T_optmgmt_req(7)} -- @tab options management.
@item @manref{T_ordrel_ind(7)} -- @tab orderly release indication.
@item @manref{T_ordrel_req(7)} -- @tab orderly release request.
@item @manref{T_uderror_ind(7)} -- @tab unit data error indication.
@item @manref{T_unbind_req(7)} -- @tab unbind protocol address request.
@item @manref{T_unitdata_ind(7)} -- @tab unit data indication.
@item @manref{T_unitdata_req(7)} -- @tab unit data request.

@end multitable

The following manual pages are installed in Section 8 of the manual (in the subdirectory
@file{/usr/share/man/man8}):

@multitable @columnfractions .35 .65

@item @manref{strxnet_mknod(8)} -- @tab create or remove @dfn{STREAMS} XNET device nodes.
@item @manref{test-timod(8)} -- @tab a test suite executable for the @manpage{timod(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} module.
@item @manref{test-tirdwr(8)} -- @tab a test suite executable for the @manpage{tirdwr(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} module.
@item @manref{test-xnet(8)} -- @tab a test suite executable for the @manpage{xnet(3)} @dfn{STREAMS} library.
@item @manref{test-xnet_thr(8)} -- @tab a test suite executable for the @manpage{xnet(3)} @dfn{STREAMS} library.

@end multitable

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Conformance
@chapter Conformance
@cindex conformance

@menu
* TPI Compatibility::		Compatibility to Transport Provider Interface
* XTI Compatibility::		Compatibility to X/Open Transport Interface
* TLI Compatibility::		Compatibility to Transport Layer Interface
@end menu

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is compliant to a number of standards specifications as
follows:

@node TPI Compatibility
@section TPI Compatibility

The Transport Provider Interface provided by the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is compliant
with XPG3, XPG4, and the Transport Provider Interface (TPI) Revision 1.5 (from UNIX International)
and Transport Provider Interface (TPI) Revision 2.0.0. (from The Open Group).

Conformance of the @manref{tirdwr(4)} read write cooperating module mentioned in the TPI
specification is tested for compliance with the @manref{test-tirdwr(8)} test case executable and the
@command{autotest} test suite.
See @refman{Conformance Test Programs}, for more information.

@node XTI Compatibility
@section XTI Compatibility

The X/Open Transport Interface provided by the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is compliant
with XPG3, XPG4, and the X/Open Transport Interface present in X/Open Networking Services Release
4.2 (XNS 4.2) and X/Open Networking Services Release 5.2 (XNS 5.2), part of the standards necessary
for UNIX '95 branding.

Conformance of the package to the XTI specification is tested using the @manref{test-xnet(8)} and
@manref{test-xnet_thr(8)} test case executables and the @command{autotest} test suite.  Both
native and 32-bit compatibility modes over 64-bit native kernels are tested by these test suites.
Also, the @manref{test-timod(8)} test case executable, and the @command{autotest} test suite, test
the XTI library cooperating module, @manref{timod(4)} for compliance.
See @refman{Conformance Test Programs}, for more information.

@node TLI Compatibility
@section TLI Compatibility

The X/Open Transport Interface is not compatible with the older AT&T UNIX System Laboratories
Transport Layer Interface (TLI) in a number of respects where the TLI differs from the XTI.
Nevertheless, the older TLI declarations are also provided in the @file{tiuser.h} header file.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Releases
@chapter Releases
@cindex releases

@include releases.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Installation
@chapter Installation
@cindex installation

@include texi/install.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Troubleshooting
@chapter Troubleshooting
@cindex troubleshooting

@include texi/testsuite.texi


@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Licenses
@unnumbered Licenses
@cindex licenses

@menu
* UNIX International TPI License::	The UII TPI license
* GNU General Public License::		The GPL license
* GNU Lesser General Public License::	The LGPL license
* GNU Free Documentation License::	The FDL license
@end menu

@page
@include texi/uitpi.texi
@page
@include texi/gpl.texi
@page
@include texi/lesser.texi
@page
@include texi/fdl.texi

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Indices
@unnumbered Indices
@cindex indices

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Concept Index::		Index of Concepts
* Type Index::			Index of Data Types
* Function Index::		Index of Functions and Macros
* Variable Index::		Index of Variables and Constants
* File Index::			Index of Files and Programs
* Option Index::		Index of Configuration Options
* Makefile Target Index::	Index of Makefile Targets
* Author Index::		Index of Authors
* Manual Page Index::		Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Concept Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Concepts
@printindex cp

@page
@node Type Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Data Types
@printindex tp

@page
@node Function Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Functions and Macros
@printindex fn

@page
@node Variable Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Variables and Constants
@printindex vr

@page
@node File Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Files and Programs
@printindex pg

@page
@node Option Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Configuration Options
@printindex op

@page
@node Makefile Target Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Makefile Targets
@printindex mk

@page
@node Author Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Authors
@printindex au

@page
@node Manual Page Index
@unnumberedsec Index of Manual Pages Referenced
@printindex mp

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye

@c ============================================================================
