@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: todo.texi,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-28 18:38:34 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 18:38:34 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@subsubheading Current Plan

This package is mature and complete and in production release.  The current plan is to provide only
maintenance releases supporting more recent Linux distributions, kernels and tool chains as they
evolve.  Expect public maintenance releases on a 3 to 6 month cycle.

This package will not be maintained for use with LiS.  LiS support is deprecated and has been
discontinued (but still exists on the CVS archive for sponsors of the OpenSS7 Project).  Use Linux
Fast-STREAMS instead, please.

@subsubheading Things to Do

@itemize @bullet

@item
The texinfo manual, @file{libxnet.texi}, is incomplete.  For the time being, the manual pages,
starting with @manref{libxnet(3)}, are the definitive documentation.  It would be nice to also
provide these library manual pages as a printable manual, however, the project has not yet found the
time to complete this manual.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
There is an XTITRACE option the was associated wtih the XTI library that provided the abilty to
record trace information to a temporary file and then display or print it with an xtitrace
user program.  This capability is not yet implemented in this XTI library and remains to be done.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Need to remove the following functions:

@multitable {t_rcvopt(3) and}
@item @manref{t_sndopt(3)},
@item @manref{t_sndvopt(3)},
@item @manref{t_rcvopt(3)} and
@item @manref{t_rcvvopt(3)},
@end multitable

as they are non-standard and non-portable.  Instead use the following functions:

@multitable {t_rcvudata(3) and}
@item @manref{t_sndudata(3)},
@item @manref{t_sndvudata(3)},
@item @manref{t_rcvudata(3)} and
@item @manref{t_rcvvudata(3)}.
@end multitable

because they have precisely the same argument templates as the other.  These functions are described
in the OpenGroup documentation as inapplicable to connection-oriented transports, however, we could
relieve that restriction for SCTP.  The characteristics to check is if T_CLTS, okay, T_COTS or
T_COTS_ORD, only okay if the tsdu_size is not T_INVALID (as it is for TCP).  (It would be okay to be
T_INFINITE as it is for SCTP.)

@emph{*todo*}

They may have already been removed.
Verify this.
They certainly have to be implemented this way yet.

@item
The XTI/TLI library is now largely in maintenance mode.  Not much special development is planned.
@end itemize

@itemize @minus
@item
Full ATM Support.  This is an item where the XTI implementation is lacking.  When we provide full
TPI ATM support under the strss7 package, then this item will be investigated.

@emph{*todo*}

@item
Addition of a (unfortunately non-standard) send with options commands for SCTP.

@emph{*done*}

Actually this was already done a long time ago.  See manual pages:

@multitable {t_rcvopt(3) and}
@item @manref{t_sndopt(3)},
@item @manref{t_sndvopt(3)},
@item @manref{t_rcvopt(3)} and
@item @manref{t_rcvvopt(3)}.
@end multitable

Perhaps what needs to be done is to test them?

@end itemize

