@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: tree.texi,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-28 18:38:34 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 18:38:34 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c $Log: tree.texi,v $
@c Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-04-28 18:38:34  brian
@c - header updates for release
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.6  2007/02/28 06:31:43  brian
@c - updates and corrections, #ifdef instead of #if
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.5  2007/01/08 16:24:39  brian
@c - final updates for release
@c
@c Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/01/03 12:33:12  brian
@c - corrections
@c
@c =========================================================================

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} creates the following kernel modules files in the kernel modules
directory, @file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-}:@footnote{The kernel version
@samp{@value{_kversion}} is just and example.  For the running kernel, @samp{uname -r} is expected.}

@table @file
@item modules.@value{PACKAGE_LCNAME}
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following kernel module files in the kernel modules
directory, @file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:@footnote{The kernel
version @samp{@value{_kversion}} is just and example.  For the running kernel, @samp{uname -r} is
expected.}

@table @file
@item streams_tirdwr.ko
Contains the @manref{tirdwr(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} module.
@item streams_timod.ko
Contains the @manref{timod(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} module.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following header files in the system include directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-include/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:

@multitable @columnfractions .35 .35
@item @header{tihdr.h} @tab @header{sys/tihdr.h}
@item @header{timod.h} @tab @header{sys/timod.h}
@item @header{tirdwr.h} @tab @header{sys/tirdwr.h}
@item @header{tiuser.h} @tab @header{sys/tiuser.h}
@item @header{ticlts.h} @tab @header{sys/ticlts.h}
@item @header{ticots.h} @tab @header{sys/ticots.h}
@item @header{ticotsord.h} @tab @header{sys/ticotsord.h}
@item @header{xti.h} @tab @header{sys/xti.h}
@item @header{xti_inet.h} @tab @header{sys/xti_inet.h}
@item @tab @header{sys/tli.h}
@item @header{sys/strxnet/config.h} @tab @header{sys/tpi.h}
@item @header{sys/strxnet/version.h}@tab @header{sys/xti_local.h}
@item @tab @header{sys/xti_xti.h}
@item @tab @header{sys/xti_ip.h}
@item @tab @header{sys/xti_udp.h}
@item @tab @header{sys/xti_tcp.h}
@item @tab @header{sys/xti_sctp.h}
@item @tab @header{sys/xti_osi.h}
@item @tab @header{sys/xti_mosi.h}
@item @tab @header{sys/xti_atm.h}
@end multitable

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following test programs in the system libexec directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-libexec/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:@footnote{Note that on some systems,
@file{/usr/libexec} does not exist, and @file{/usr/lib} is used instead.}

@table @file
@item send-pr
@itemx send-pr.config
The @command{send-pr} stand-alone shell script can be used for the automatic generation of problem
reports for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  The @file{send-pr.config} file provides
localized definitions used by the @command{send-pr} program.
For more information on problem reports, @xref{Problem Reports}, and, in particular, @xref{Stand
Alone Problem Reports}.
@item test-tirdwr
test case exectutable.
@item test-timod
test case exectutable.
@item test-xnet
test case exectutable.
@item test-xnet_thr
test case exectutable.
@item testsuite
@itemx atlocal
The @command{testsuite} stand-alone shell script invokes test cases in the test programs above as
compiled into a comprehensive regression, troubleshooting and validation test suite for the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers.  The @file{atlocal} file provides localized definitions used
by the @command{testsuite} program.
For more information on test suites, @xref{Test Suites}, and, in particular, @xref{Running Test
Suites}.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following utility programs in the system binary
directory, @file{/@-usr/@-sbin/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod
This utility can be used by init scripts or administrative users to create or remove device nodes in
the @file{/dev} directory for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers.
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following user programs in the user binary
directory, @file{/@-usr/@-bin/@-}:

@table @file
@end table
@end ignore

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following static and shared object libraries in the
system library directory, @file{/@-usr/@-lib/@-} (32-bit libraries) and @file{/@-usr/@-lib64/@-}
(64-bit libraries):

@table @file
@item libxnet.so.0.0.0
@itemx libxnet.so.0
@itemx libxnet.so
@item libxnet.a
@item libxnet.la
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following internationalization catalogues in
the internationalization directory, @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-locale/}:

@table @file
@item de/LC_MESSAGES/@value{PACKAGE}.mo
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following init scripts in the system init directory,
@file{/@-etc/@-rc.d/@-init.d/@-} (non-Debian) or @file{/@-etc/@-init.d/@-} (Debian):

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}
This is the name of the system init script on non-Debian based systems.
@item @value{PACKAGE}.sh
This is the name of the system init script on Debian based systems.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following system configuration files in the configuration
directory, @file{/@-etc/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.conf
This file provided configuration information for any system controls affected by the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.
@item modutils/@-@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides module definitions and demand loading aliases for the @file{@value{PACKAGE}}
package.  This file is really only applicable to older 2.4 kernels.
@ignore
@item netconfig.d/@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides the @manpage{netconfig(5)} definitions for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
drivers.
@manpage{netconfig(5)} definitions are used by the @file{strnsl} package and the @file{libxnsl}
library.
@item sock2path.d/@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides the @manpage{sock2path(5)} definitions for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
drivers.
@manpage{sock2path(5)} definitions are used by the @file{strsock} package and the @file{libsocket}
library.
@end ignore
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following system configuration file in the system
configuration directory, @file{/@-etc/@-sysconfig/@-} (non-Debian) or @file{/@-etc/@-default/@-}
(Debian):

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}
This file provides system configuration information used by init scripts for the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.  Some options of init script execution can be controlled by
this file.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following info files in the system info directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-info/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.info
@itemx @value{PACKAGE}.info-1
@itemx @value{PACKAGE}.info-2
These files contain this manual in @cite{GNU info} format.
@item libxnet.info
An incomplete info manual for the @file{libxnet} library.  See the manual pages,
@manref{libxnet(3)}, instead.
@item tpi.info
@item tpi_tcap.info
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual page macros and reference database files in
the system man directory, @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-}:@footnote{Note that macro and reference
databse files are not installed if the package is configured for cooked manpages.}

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.macros
This file contains manual page macro definitions included by the manual pages included in the
package.
@item @value{PACKAGE}.refs
This file contains a reference database referenced by the manual pages included in the package.
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man1/@-}:

@table @file
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man2/@-}:

@table @file
@end table
@end ignore

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man3/@-}:

@table @file
@item t_accept.3
@item t_addleaf.3
@item t_alloc.3
@item t_bind.3
@item t_close.3
@item t_connect.3
@item t_errlist.3
@item t_errno.3
@item t_error.3
@item t_errstr.3
@item t_free.3
@item t_getinfo.3
@item t_getprotaddr.3
@item t_getstate.3
@item t_listen.3
@item t_look.3
@item t_nerr.3
@item t_open.3
@item t_optmgmt.3
@item t_rcv.3
@item t_rcvconnect.3
@item t_rcvdis.3
@item t_rcvleafchange.3
@item t_rcvopt.3
@item t_rcvrel.3
@item t_rcvreldata.3
@item t_rcvudata.3
@item t_rcvuderr.3
@item t_rcvv.3
@item t_rcvvopt.3
@item t_rcvvudata.3
@item t_removeleaf.3
@item t_snd.3
@item t_snddis.3
@item t_sndopt.3
@item t_sndrel.3
@item t_sndreldata.3
@item t_sndudata.3
@item t_sndv.3
@item t_sndvopt.3
@item t_sndvudata.3
@item t_strerror.3
@item t_sync.3
@item t_sysconf.3
@item t_unbind.3
@item xnet.3
@item xti.3
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man4/@-}:

@table @file
@item timod.4
@item tirdwr.4
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man5/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.5
manual page for the @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}(5)} package.
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man7/@-}:

@table @file
@item T_ADDR_ACK.7
@item T_addr_ack.7
@item T_ADDR_REQ.7
@item T_addr_req.7
@item T_BIND_ACK.7
@item T_bind_ack.7
@item T_BIND_REQ.7
@item T_bind_req.7
@item T_CAPABILITY_ACK.7
@item T_capability_ack.7
@item T_CAPABILITY_REQ.7
@item T_capability_req.7
@item T_CONN_CON.7
@item T_conn_con.7
@item T_CONN_IND.7
@item T_conn_ind.7
@item T_CONN_REQ.7
@item T_conn_req.7
@item T_CONN_RES.7
@item T_conn_res.7
@item T_DATA_IND.7
@item T_data_ind.7
@item T_DATA_REQ.7
@item T_data_req.7
@item T_DISCON_IND.7
@item T_discon_ind.7
@item T_DISCON_REQ.7
@item T_discon_req.7
@item T_ERROR_ACK.7
@item T_error_ack.7
@item T_EXDATA_IND.7
@item T_exdata_ind.7
@item T_EXDATA_REQ.7
@item T_exdata_req.7
@item T_INFO_ACK.7
@item T_info_ack.7
@item T_INFO_REQ.7
@item T_info_req.7
@item T_OK_ACK.7
@item T_ok_ack.7
@item T_OPTDATA_IND.7
@item T_optdata_ind.7
@item T_OPTDATA_REQ.7
@item T_optdata_req.7
@item T_OPTMGMT_ACK.7
@item T_optmgmt_ack.7
@item T_OPTMGMT_REQ.7
@item T_optmgmt_req.7
@item T_ORDREL_IND.7
@item T_ordrel_ind.7
@item T_ORDREL_REQ.7
@item T_ordrel_req.7
@item tpi.7
@item T_UDERROR_IND.7
@item T_uderror_ind.7
@item T_UNBIND_REQ.7
@item T_unbind_req.7
@item T_UNITDATA_IND.7
@item T_unitdata_ind.7
@item T_UNITDATA_REQ.7
@item T_unitdata_req.7
@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man8/@-}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod.8
Documentation for the @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}_mknod(8)} utility program.
@item test-timod.8
@item test-tirdwr.8
@item test-xnet.8
@item test-xnet_thr.8
@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} installs the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man9/@-}:

@table @file
@end table
@end ignore

@ignore
/usr
/usr/include
/usr/include/strxnet
/usr/include/strxnet/sys
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/strxnet
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/strxnet/config.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/strxnet/version.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/tihdr.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/timod.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/tirdwr.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/tiuser.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/tli.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/tpi.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/ticlts.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/ticots.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/ticotsord.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_local.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_xti.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_inet.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_ip.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_udp.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_tcp.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_sctp.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_osi.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_mosi.h
/usr/include/strxnet/sys/xti_atm.h
/usr/include/strxnet/tihdr.h
/usr/include/strxnet/timod.h
/usr/include/strxnet/tirdwr.h
/usr/include/strxnet/tiuser.h
/usr/include/strxnet/ticlts.h
/usr/include/strxnet/ticots.h
/usr/include/strxnet/ticotsord.h
/usr/include/strxnet/xti.h
/usr/include/strxnet/xti_inet.h
/usr/share
/usr/share/locale
/usr/share/locale/de
/usr/share/locale/de/LC_MESSAGES
/usr/share/locale/de/LC_MESSAGES/strxnet.mo
/usr/share/man
/usr/share/man/strxnet.macros
/usr/share/man/strxnet.refs
/usr/share/man/man3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_accept.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_addleaf.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_alloc.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_bind.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_close.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_connect.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_errlist.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_errno.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_error.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_errstr.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_free.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_getinfo.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_getprotaddr.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_getstate.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_listen.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_look.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_nerr.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_open.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_optmgmt.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_rcv.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_rcvconnect.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_rcvdis.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_rcvleafchange.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_rcvopt.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_rcvrel.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_rcvreldata.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_rcvudata.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_rcvuderr.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_rcvv.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_rcvvopt.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_rcvvudata.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_removeleaf.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_snd.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_snddis.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_sndopt.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_sndrel.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_sndreldata.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_sndudata.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_sndv.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_sndvopt.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_sndvudata.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_strerror.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_sync.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_sysconf.3
/usr/share/man/man3/t_unbind.3
/usr/share/man/man3/xnet.3
/usr/share/man/man3/xti.3
/usr/share/man/man4
/usr/share/man/man4/timod.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tirdwr.4
/usr/share/man/man5
/usr/share/man/man5/strxnet.5
/usr/share/man/man7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_ADDR_ACK.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_addr_ack.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_ADDR_REQ.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_addr_req.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_BIND_ACK.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_bind_ack.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_BIND_REQ.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_bind_req.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_CAPABILITY_ACK.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_capability_ack.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_CAPABILITY_REQ.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_capability_req.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_CONN_CON.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_conn_con.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_CONN_IND.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_conn_ind.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_CONN_REQ.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_conn_req.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_CONN_RES.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_conn_res.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_DATA_IND.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_data_ind.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_DATA_REQ.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_data_req.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_DISCON_IND.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_discon_ind.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_DISCON_REQ.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_discon_req.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_ERROR_ACK.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_error_ack.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_EXDATA_IND.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_exdata_ind.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_EXDATA_REQ.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_exdata_req.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_INFO_ACK.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_info_ack.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_INFO_REQ.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_info_req.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_OK_ACK.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_ok_ack.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_OPTDATA_IND.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_optdata_ind.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_OPTDATA_REQ.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_optdata_req.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_OPTMGMT_ACK.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_optmgmt_ack.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_OPTMGMT_REQ.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_optmgmt_req.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_ORDREL_IND.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_ordrel_ind.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_ORDREL_REQ.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_ordrel_req.7
/usr/share/man/man7/tpi.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_UDERROR_IND.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_uderror_ind.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_UNBIND_REQ.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_unbind_req.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_UNITDATA_IND.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_unitdata_ind.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_UNITDATA_REQ.7
/usr/share/man/man7/T_unitdata_req.7
/usr/share/man/man8
/usr/share/man/man8/strxnet_mknod.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-timod.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-tirdwr.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-xnet.8
/usr/share/man/man8/test-xnet_thr.8
/usr/share/info
/usr/share/info/strxnet.info
/usr/share/info/strxnet.info-1
/usr/share/info/strxnet.info-2
/usr/share/info/libxnet.info
/usr/share/info/tpi.info
/usr/share/info/tpi_tcap.info
/usr/libexec
/usr/libexec/strxnet
/usr/libexec/strxnet/send-pr
/usr/libexec/strxnet/send-pr.config
/usr/libexec/strxnet/test-tirdwr
/usr/libexec/strxnet/test-timod
/usr/libexec/strxnet/test-xnet
/usr/libexec/strxnet/test-xnet_thr
/usr/libexec/strxnet/testsuite
/usr/libexec/strxnet/atlocal
/usr/lib
/usr/lib/libxnet.so.0.0.0
/usr/lib/libxnet.so.0
/usr/lib/libxnet.so
/usr/lib/libxnet.la
/usr/lib/libxnet.a
/usr/sbin
/usr/sbin/strxnet_mknod
/etc
/etc/strxnet.conf
/etc/default
/etc/default/strxnet
/etc/init.d
/etc/init.d/strxnet.sh
/etc/modutils
/lib
/lib/modules
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strxnet
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strxnet/streams_tirdwr.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/strxnet/streams_timod.ko
@end ignore
