'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ctimod.9.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/02/27 01:35:58 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/27 01:35:58 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ctimod.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/02/27 01:35:58  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/02/26 06:53:36  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database osr61.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so osr61.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CTIMOD 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.SH NAME
.B ctimod
\- various kernel function wrappers
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/ctimod.h>
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_add_timer(struct timer_list *" timer ");
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_add_wait_queue(wait_queue_head_t *" head ", wait_queue_t *" wait ");
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_bzero(void *" ptr ", size_t " size );
.HP
.BI "ulong ctimod_copy_to_user(void *" to ", const void *" from ", ulong " len );
.HP
.BI "ulong ctimod_copy_from_user(void *" to ", const void *" from ", ulong " len );
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_del_timer(struct timer_list *" timer );
.HP
.BI "struct proc_dir_entry *ctimod_create_proc_entry(const char *" name ", mode_t " mode ", struct proc_dir_entry *" entry );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_do_gettimeofday(struct timeval *" tv );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_free_irq(int " num ", void *" ptr );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_free_pages(ulong, ulong);
.HP
.BI "ulong ctimod_get_free_pages(uint " order ", unsigned int" gfp );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_init_timer(struct timer_list *" timer );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_init_waitqueue_head(wait_queue_head_t *" head );
.HP
.BI "void *ctimod_ioremap(ulong, ulong);
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_iounmap(void *);
.HP
.BI "ulong ctimod_jiffies(void);
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_kfree(void *" ptr ", int " size );
.HP
.BI "void *ctimod_kmalloc(size_t " size ", int " gfp );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_mark_bh(int " task );
.HP
.BI "void *ctimod_memcpy(void *" to ", const void *" from ", size_t " size );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_memset(void *" ptr ", int " val ", size_t " size );
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_pcibios_present(void);
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_pci_module_init(struct pci_driver *" pci );
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_pci_register_driver(struct pci_driver *" pci );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_pci_unregister_driver(struct pci_driver *" pci );
.HP
.BI "struct pci_dev *ctimod_pci_find_device(uint " clas ", uint " type ", const struct pci_dev *" pci );
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_pci_read_config_byte(struct pci_dev *" pci ", int " offset ", u8 *" valp ");
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_pci_read_config_word(struct pci_dev *" pci ", int " offset ", u16 *" valp ");
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_pci_read_config_dword(struct pci_dev *" pci ", int " offset ", u32 *" valp ");
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_pci_write_config_byte(struct pci_dev *" pci ", int " offset ", u8 " val );
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_pci_write_config_word(struct pci_dev *" pci ", int " offset ", u16 " val );
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_pci_write_config_dword(struct pci_dev *" pci ", int " offset ", u32 " val );
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_printk(const char *" fmt ", " ... );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_poll_wait(struct file *" file ", wait_queue_head_t *" head ", poll_table *" poll );
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_remap_page_range(struct vm_area_struct *, ulong, ulong, ulong, pgprot_t);
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_register_chrdev(uint, const char *" name ", struct file_operations *" fops );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_remove_proc_entry(const char *" name ", struct proc_dir_entry *" entry );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_remove_wait_queue(wait_queue_head_t *" head ", wait_queue_t *" wait );
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_request_irq(uint " num ", irqreturn_t(*" handler ") (int, void *, struct pt_regs *), ulong, const char *, void *);
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_schedule(void);
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_schedule_timeout(signed long " timeout );
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_spin_trylock(spinlock_t *" lockp );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_spin_lock_bh(spinlock_t *" lockp );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_spin_unlock_bh(spinlock_t *" lockp );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_spin_lock(spinlock_t *" lockp );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_spin_unlock(spinlock_t *" lockp );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_spin_lock_irq(spinlock_t *" lockp );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_spin_unlock_irq(spinlock_t *" lockp );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_spin_lock_irqsave(spinlock_t *" lockp ", unsigned long *" flags );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_spin_unlock_irqrestore(spinlock_t *" lockp ", unsigned long" flags );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_spin_lock_init(spinlock_t *" lockp );
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_sprintf(char *" buf ", const char *" fmt ", " ... );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_tasklet_init(struct tasklet_struct *" task ", void (*" func ")(unsigned long), unsigned long " data );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_tasklet_kill(struct tasklet_struct *" task);
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_udelay(long);
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_unregister_chrdev(uint " major ", const char *" name );
.HP
.BI "struct page *ctimod_virt_to_page(ulong " addr );
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_vsprintf(char *" buf ", const char *" fmt ", va_list " args );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_wake_up_interruptible(wait_queue_head_t *" head );
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_debug_on(void);
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_debug_off(void);
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_debug_clear(void);
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_debug_print(void);
.HP
.BI "void ctimod_debug_toggle(void);
.HP
.BI "struct workqueue_struct *ctimod_create_workqueue(char *);
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_queue_work(struct workqueue_struct *, struct work_struct *);
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_wake_up_process(struct task_struct *" task );
.HP
.BI "int ctimod_check_rh(void);
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
Various.
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
The
.BR ctimod (4)
kernel module provided with the Dialogic\(rg Open System Release 6.1 GPL drivers is a kernel module
that provides a set of wrapper functions for Linux kernel functions.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The wrapper functions provided by the
.B ctimod
kernel module are as follows:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lblb
ll.
CTIMOD Function:Kernel Function
_
ctimod_add_timer:add_timer
ctimod_add_wait_queue:add_wait_queue
ctimod_bzero:bzero
ctimod_check_rh:check_rh
ctimod_copy_from_user:copy_from_user
ctimod_copy_to_user:copy_to_user
ctimod_create_proc_entry:create_proc_entry
ctimod_create_workqueue:create_workqueue
ctimod_debug_clear:debug_clear
ctimod_debug_off:debug_off
ctimod_debug_on:debug_on
ctimod_debug_print:debug_print
ctimod_debug_toggle:debug_toggle
ctimod_del_timer:del_timer
ctimod_do_gettimeofday:do_gettimeofday
ctimod_free_irq:free_irq
ctimod_free_pages:free_pages
ctimod_get_free_pages:__get_free_pages
ctimod_init_timer:init_timer
ctimod_init_waitqueue_head:init_waitqueue_head
ctimod_ioremap:ioremap
ctimod_iounmap:iounmap
ctimod_jiffies:jiffies
ctimod_kfree:kfree
ctimod_kmalloc:kmalloc
ctimod_mark_bh:mark_bh
ctimod_memcpy:memcpy
ctimod_memset:memset
ctimod_pcibios_present:pcibios_present
ctimod_pci_find_device:pci_find_device
ctimod_pci_module_init:pci_module_init
ctimod_pci_read_config_byte:pci_read_config_byte
ctimod_pci_read_config_dword:pci_read_config_dword
ctimod_pci_read_config_word:pci_read_config_word
ctimod_pci_register_driver:pci_register_driver
ctimod_pci_unregister_driver:pci_unregister_driver
ctimod_pci_write_config_byte:pci_write_config_byte
ctimod_pci_write_config_dword:pci_write_config_dword
ctimod_pci_write_config_word:pci_write_config_word
ctimod_poll_wait:poll_wait
ctimod_printk:printk
ctimod_queue_work:queue_work
ctimod_register_chrdev:register_chrdev
ctimod_remap_page_range:remap_page_range
ctimod_remove_proc_entry:remove_proc_entry
ctimod_remove_wait_queue:remove_wait_queue
ctimod_request_irq:request_irq
ctimod_schedule:schedule
ctimod_schedule_timeout:schedule_timeout
ctimod_spin_lock_bh:spin_lock_bh
ctimod_spin_lock_init:spin_lock_init
ctimod_spin_lock_irqsave:spin_lock_irqsave
ctimod_spin_lock_irq:spin_lock_irq
ctimod_spin_lock:spin_lock
ctimod_spin_trylock:spin_trylock
ctimod_spin_unlock_bh:spin_unlock_bh
ctimod_spin_unlock_irqrestore:spin_unlock_irqrestore
ctimod_spin_unlock_irq:spin_unlock_irq
ctimod_spin_unlock:spin_unlock
ctimod_sprintf:sprintf
ctimod_tasklet_init:tasklet_init
ctimod_tasklet_kill:tasklet_kill
ctimod_udelay:udelay
ctimod_unregister_chrdev:unregister_chrdev
ctimod_virt_to_page:virt_to_page
ctimod_vsprintf:vsprintf
ctimod_wake_up_interruptible:wake_up_interruptible
ctimod_wake_up_process:wake_up_process
.TE
.PP
Most of these functions are useless wrappers for the Linux kernel functions.  These functions are
only used by the
.BR pmacd (4)
driver, which is a non-STREAMS driver.  In general, it was rather useless to write the
.BR pmacd (4)
driver as a non-STREAMS driver as the driver winds up reinventing a significant portion of the
DDI/DKI and duplication of the functions of the Stream head.
.TP
.BR ctimod_add_timer ()
This function is purposeless.  Call
.BR add_timer (9)
instead if absolutely necessary; however,
.BR add_timer (9)
is non-portable.  Use the DDI/DKI portable function
.BR timeout (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_add_wait_queue ()
This function is purposeless.  Call
.BR add_wait_queue (9)
instead if absolutely necessary; however,
.BR add_wait_queue (9)
is non-portable.  Use the DDI/DKI portable function
.BR SV_WAIT (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_bzero ()
This function is purposeless.  Call the portable DDI/DKI
function
.BR bzero (9)
directly instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_check_rh ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_copy_from_user ()
This function is purposeless.  Call
.BR copy_from_user (9)
if absolutely necessary; however,
.BR copy_from_user (9)
is non-portable.  Use the DDI/DKI portable
function
.BR copyin (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_copy_to_user ()
This function is purposeless.  Call
.BR copy_to_user (9)
is absolutely necessary; however,
.BR copy_to_user (9)
is non-portable.  Use the DDI/DKI portable function
.BR copyout (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_create_proc_entry ()
This function is purposeless.  Call
.BR create_proc_entry (9)
directly if absolutely necessary; however,
.BR create_proc_entry (9)
is non-portable.  Avoid its use in portable modules.
.TP
.BR ctimod_create_workqueue ()
This function is a useless wrapper that is strapped out.  Do not use it.
.TP
.BR ctimod_debug_clear ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_debug_off ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_debug_on ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_debug_print ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_debug_toggle ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_del_timer ()
This function is purposeless.  Call
.BR del_timer (9)
instead if absolutely necessary; however,
.BR del_timer (9)
is non-portable.  Use the DDI/DKI portable function
.BR untimeout (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_do_gettimeofday ()
This function is purposeless.  Call
.BR do_gettimeofday (9)
instead if absolutely necessry; however,
.BR do_gettimeofday (9)
is non-portable.  Use the DDI/DKI portable function
.BR drv_getparm (9)
with the
.I TIME
parameter instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_free_irq ()
This function is purposeless.  Call
.BR free_irq (9)
instead if absolutely necessary.
.TP
.BR ctimod_free_pages ()
This function is purposeless. Call
.BR free_pages (9)
if absolutely necessary; however,
.BR free_pages (9)
is non-portable.
.TP
.BR ctimod_get_free_pages ()
This function is purposeless.  Call
.BR __get_free_pages (9)
if absolutely necessary; however,
.BR __get_free_pages (9)
is non-portable.
.BR __get_free_pages (9)
is often unnecessary and the DDI/DKI function
.BR kmem_alloc (9)
can be used in its stead.
.BR __get_free_pages (9)
is only necessary when physically contiguous pages of unique character (e.g. suitable for ISA DMA)
ar required.
.TP
.BR ctimod_init_timer ()
This function is purposeless.  Call
.BR init_timer (9)
instead.  As Linux native timers are non-portable, use the DDI/DKI functions
.BR timeout (9)
and
.BR untimeout (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_init_waitqueue_head ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_ioremap ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_iounmap ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_jiffies ()
This function is purposeless.  Call
.BR jiffies (9)
if absolutely necessary; however,
.BR jiffies (9)
is non-portable: use the DDI/DKI function
.BR drv_getparm (9)
with the
.I LBOLT
parameter instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_kfree ()
This function is purposeless.  Call
.BR kfree (9)
instead if absolutely necessary.
.BR kfree (9)
is non-portable: use the DDI/DKI function
.BR kmem_free (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_kmalloc ()
This function is purposeless.  Call
.BR kmalloc (9)
instead if absolutely necessary.
.BR kmalloc (9)
is non-portable: use the DDI/DKI function
.BR kmem_free (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_mark_bh ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_memcpy ()
This function is purposeless.  Call
.BR memcpy (9)
instead of absolutely necessary.  Better still, use the portable DDI/DKI function
.BR bcopy (9).
.TP
.BR ctimod_memset ()
This function is purposeless.  Call
.BR memset (9)
instead of absolutely necessary.  Better still, use the portable DDI/DKI function
.BR bzero (9).
.TP
.BR ctimod_pcibios_present
.TP
.BR ctimod_pci_find_device ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_pci_module_init ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_pci_read_config_byte ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_pci_read_config_dword ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_pci_read_config_word ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_pci_register_driver ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_pci_unregister_driver ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_pci_write_config_byte ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_pci_write_config_dword ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_pci_write_config_word ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_poll_wait ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_printk ()
This function's implementation is flawed.  It uses a static buffer without protecting locks.  Do not
use this function, if necessary use
.BR printk (9)
instead; however,
.BR printk (9)
is non-portable.  Use
.BR cmn_err (9)
or
.BR strlog (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_queue_work ()
This function is a useless wrapper that is strapped out.  Do not use it.
.TP
.BR ctimod_register_chrdev ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_remap_page_range ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_remove_proc_entry ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_remove_wait_queue ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_request_irq ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_schedule ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_schedule_timeout ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_spin_lock ()
This function is useless; call
.BR spin_lock (9)
directly if absolutely necessary.
Use the portable DDI/DKI function
.BR LOCK (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_spin_lock_bh ()
This function is useless; call
.BR spin_lock_bh (9)
drirectly if absolutely necessary.
This function is never what you want.  Use
.BR spin_lock_irqsave (9)
instead anyway.
Use the portable DDI/DKI function
.BR LOCK (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_spin_lock_init ()
Use the portable DDI/DKI function
.BR LOCK_ALLOC (9)
or a lock initalizer string
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_spin_lock_irqsave ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_spin_lock_irq ()
This function is useless; call
.BR spin_lock_irq (9)
directly if absolutely necessary.
This function is seldom what you want.  Use
.BR spin_lock_irqsave (9)
instead anyway.
Use the portable DDI/DKI function
.BR LOCK (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_spin_trylock ()
This function is useless; call
.BR spin_trylock (9)
directly if absolutely necessary.
Use the portable DDI/DKI function
.BR TRYLOCK (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_spin_unlock ()
This function is usless; call
.BR spin_unlock (9)
directly if absolutely necessary.
Use the portable DDI/DKI function
.BR UNLOCK (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_spin_unlock_bh ()
This function is useless; call
.BR spin_unlock_bh (9)
directly if absolutely necessary; however, it is dangerous.
Use the portable DDI/DKI function
.BR UNLOCK (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_spin_unlock_irqrestore ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_spin_unlock_irq ()
This funciton is useless; call
.BR spin_unlock_irq (9)
directly if absolutely necessary.  This is seldom what you want.  Use
.BR spin_unlock_irqrestore (9).
Use the portable DDI/DKI function
.BR UNLOCK (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_sprintf ()
Use the function
.BR sprintf (9)
directly if absolutely necessary, or use the more portable
.BR mi_sprintf (9)
function.
.TP
.BR ctimod_tasklet_init ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_tasklet_kill ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_udelay ()
Use the portable DDI/DKI function
.BR drv_usecwait (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_unregister_chrdev ()
.TP
.BR ctimod_virt_to_page ()
Use the portable DDI/DKI function
.BR vtop (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_vsprintf ()
Use the function
.BR vsprintf (9)
directly if absolutely necessary, or use the more portable
.BR mi_sprintf (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_wake_up_interruptible ()
Use the portable DDI/DKI functions
.BR SV_BROADCAST (9)
or
.BR SV_SINGLE (9)
instead.
.TP
.BR ctimod_wake_up_process ()
Use the portable DDI/DKI function
.BR wakeup (9)
instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
These wrapper functions are intended to be called from the same context as
their Linux counterparts, with the most obvious expection of
.B ctimod_printk ()
which allocates 1024 bytes on the stack for a buffer and can simply not be
called at ISR due to this excessive stack use.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
For the most part, these wrapper functions are as MP safe as the Linux kernel
functions that they wrap.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
For the most part, the
.B ctimod
wrapper functions are another useless set of wrappers for Linu kernel functions.  Do not use these
function: use Linux kernel functions directly or select a STREAMS DDI/DKI equivalent, see
.BR DDI (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ctimod (4),
.BR pmacd (4),
.BR mercd (4),
.BR osr61 (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR cti_printk ()
uses a static buffer without spinlock protection or interrupt suppression and is completely unsafe.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The functions provided by
.BR ctimod ,
while somewhat compatible with the Linux kernel interfaces, are incompatible
with the more portable SVR4 DDI/DKI or even the richer Mentat Portable
Streams\(rg or  Solaris\(rg DDI.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
These function provide a non-standard Linux Kernel DDI/DKI for non-STREAMS Dialogic\(rg
drivers that do not conform with any standard.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B ctimod
kenel module and associated wrapper functions were part of Dialogic\(rg SR 5.1.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
