'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: dlgn_undoc.9.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/02/27 01:31:20 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/27 01:31:20 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: dlgn_undoc.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/02/27 01:31:20  brian
.\" - added manpages and installed headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database osr61.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so osr61.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DLGN_UNDOC 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.SH NAME
.B dlgn_undoc, cf_cmpstr, cf_ioccopy, cf_iocput, dlgn_copymp, dlgn_drvstart, dlgn_drvstop, dlgn_getpeak, dlgn_msg, dlgn_wqreply, dl_setintr, DriverStats, Gn_Boardp, Gn_Endp, Gn_Freep, Gn_Headerp, Gn_Logdevp, Gn_Maxpm, Gn_Memsz, Gn_Msglvl, Gn_Numpms, GpControlBlock, index, intmod_lock, NumOfVoiceBoards, pmswtbl, StatisticsMonitoring, st_freelock, st_sctlock, st_uselock
\- undocumented dlgn driver exports
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/dlgn.h>
.HP
.BI "int cf_cmpstr(register unsigned char *" sp ", register unsigned char *" dp ", unsigned int " bufsz );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "char *cf_ioccopy(mblk_t *" mp );
.HP
.BI "void cf_iocput(mblk_t *" mp ", struct gn_debug *" gdp ", int " msgsz );
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *dlgn_copymp(register mblk_t *" mp ", register unsigned long " size );
.HP
.B void dlgn_drvstart(void);
.HP
.B void dlgn_drvstop(void);
.HP
.BI "void dlgn_msg(int " lvl ", const char *" fmt ", " ... );
.HP
.B long dlgn_getpeak(void);
.HP
.BI "void dlgn_wqreply(queue_t *" wq ", register mblk_t *" mp ", int " rc );
.HP
.BI "void dl_setintr(int (*" intr_handler ") (void));
.HP
.B struct _SRAM_DRV_STATISTICS DriverStats;
.HP
.B struct gn_board *Gn_Boardp;
.HP
.B char *Gn_Endp;
.HP
.B char *Gn_Freep;
.HP
.B struct gn_header *Gn_Headerp;
.HP
.B struct gn_logdev *Gn_Logdevp;
.HP
.B unsigned long Gn_Maxpm;
.HP
.B unsigned long Gn_Memsz;
.HP
.B int Gn_Msglvl;
.HP
.B unsigned long Gn_Numpms;
.HP
.B struct _GP_CONTROL_BLOCK *GpControlBlock;
.HP
.B int index;
.HP
.B spinlock_t intmod_lock;
.HP
.B uchar NumOfVoiceBoards;
.HP
.B struct pm_swtbl pmswtbl[];
.HP
.B int StatisticsMonitoring;
.HP
.B spinlock_t st_freelock;
.HP
.B spinlock_t st_sctlock;
.HP
.B spinlock_t st_uselock;
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
Various.
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
These undocumented exported functions and global variable are primarily
functions and global variables exported by the
.BR dlgn (4)
driver for use also by the
.BR gncfd (4)
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.TP
.BR cf_cmpstr ()
This is a simplistic string comparison function.  Normally
.BR strcmp (9)
or
.BR memcmp (9)
would be used instead.  This function reflects inexperience on the part of the
STREAMS module programmer.
It is exported for (mis)use by both the
.BR dlgn (4)
and the
.BR gncfd (4)
drivers.
.TP
.BR cf_ioccopy ()
This is a simplistic function for copying the bytes from an M_IOCTL message
into a contiguous memory area.  Normally
.BR pullupmsg (9)
or
.BR msgpullup (9)
would be used instead and this function reflects inexperience on the part of
the STREAMS module programmer.  Also, the function had one buffer overflow and
one memory leak that were fixed.
It is exported for (mis)use by both the
.BR dlgn (4)
and the
.BR gncfd (4)
drivers.
.TP
.BR cf_iocput ()
This is a simplistic function for copying bytes into an M_IOCTL mesasge.
Normally one would simply free any attached message blocks an allocate a new
one to contain the bytes.  This function reflects inexperience on the part of
the STREAMS module programmer.
It is exported for (mis)use by both the
.BR dlgn (4)
and the
.BR gncfd (4)
drivers.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
These function can be called in a number of contexts.  Most functions are
possble to be called from a blocking context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
Because these are undocumented exported functions, they are often implemented
in the wrong context (i.e. functions that call blocking memory allocation
called from STREAMS put procedures).  Some corrections have been made, but for
the most part the simply functions should be replaced with direct calls to the
DDI/DKI.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR dlgn (4),
.BR gncfd (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
These exported functions are compatible with the Dialogic\(rg Open System
Release 6.1 version 239 GPL drivers.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
These functions conform to the specailized Dialogic\(rg interface and do not
conform to any standard.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
These functions are exported and undocumented in the Dialogic\(rg Open System
Release 6.1 version 239 GPL drivers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
