.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000  John A. Boyd Jr.  protologos, LLC
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Library General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the
.\" Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Cambridge,
.\" MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH FATTACH 8 "24 Apr 2000" "LiS 2.9" "Linux STREAMS"
.SH NAME
.B fattach
\- attach a
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
file to a path name in the file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "fattach [-v] [-m|-u|-M" "<mode>" "] [-p|-c|" "<STREAMS path>" "] " "<path> ..."
.br
.B  "fattach -?"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B fattach
program provides a command-line interface to the underlying
.BR fattach "(3) "
function.
If the
.B "\-p"
and/or the
.B "\-c"
option is specified, a
.BR STREAMS "\-based
.I pipe
is created and its two ends are alternately attached to the path names
given.  In this mode of usage, at least two path names are required,
but there need not be an even number of path names (i.e., the pipe ends
need not be attached to the same number of paths).
.sp
If the
.B "\-p"
and
.B "\-c"
options are not specified, the first path name given must identify
a
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
file.  That file will be opened, and it will be attached
to each of the path names subsequently specified (of which there must
be at least one).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-p"
Create a
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
pipe, to which to attach the subsequently specified path names.
The first path will be attached to the first pipe end, the second to the
second pipe end, the third to the first pipe end, etc., until the list
of path names is exhausted.
.sp
By default, the 
.IR umask
(see
.BR umask "(2)) "
is also applied to each end of the pipe after attaching. (See
.BR fattach "(3))."
.TP
.B "\-c"
Like
.B "\-p" (both may be given), but additionally pushes the
.B connld
module onto the first end of the pipe.  This conveniently creates a
free-standing
.I "pipe-serving"
pipe (see
.BR connld "(9), "
and below).
.TP
.B "\-m"
Apply the mode of the last-specified path(s) to the attached
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
file(s) after attaching.  (See
.BR fattach "(3)."
.TP
.B "\-u"
Apply the
.IR umask
(see
.BR umask "(2)) "
the
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
file after attaching. (See
.BR fattach "(3))."
This is done by default when a pipe is created via
.BR "\-p" .
.TP
.BI "\-M" " <mode>"
Apply the given mode to the
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
file(s) after attaching.  (See
.BR fattach "(3))."
.TP
.B "\-v"
Operate in a "verbose" manner.  This causes
.B fattach
to report its progress via message output to
.B stdout
or
.BR stderr .
.TP
.B "\-?"
Provide a usage summary.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, i.e., if all given path names are attached
to,
.B fattach
returns 0.  Upon failure,
.B fattach
returns 1.
However, the failure of one more attachments does not otherwise affect
those that succeed, and the user is responsible for detaching any that
may have succeeded if that is the desired behavior in the event of any
failures.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.B "\-p"
and
.B "\-c"
options provide a convenient means for creating free-standing
.I mounted
.BR pipes ". "
The openers of the paths attached via
.B "\-p"
will share a single pipe, while the openers of the paths attached via
.B "\-c"
will have access to a
.I "pipe-serving"
pipe.  I.e., each open of the first end (e.g., the
.I client
end) will generate a new pipe, one end of which will be given to the
opener, and the other end of which will be passed as if by the
.B I_SENDFD
.I ioctl
to the path attached to the other end (e.g., the
.I server
end).  Each opener of the server path could
.BR poll "(2) "
for input, receive a new pipe end using the
.B I_RECVFD
.IR ioctl ", "
and then close the server path, therefter using the new pipe end to
communicate with the corresponding opener of the client path (note that
the sense of
.I client
and
.I server
will in fact depend on the application - users of the two paths need
only be aware of whether or not an
.B I_RECVFD
.I ioctl
must be performed).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR connld "(9), "
.BR fattach "(3), "
.BR fdetach "(3), "
.BR fdetach "(8), "
.BR STREAMS "(4), "
.BR umask "(2)"
.SH HISTORY
An
.B fdetach
function has been provided for various
.B STREAMS
implementations based on SVR4
.BR STREAMS .
Not all of these have provided a corresponding utility program of this
sort.
.SH AUTHOR
John Boyd, protologos LLC.
