'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: fattach.8.man,v 1.1.4.2 2005/03/30 14:46:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 14:46:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000  John A. Boyd Jr.  protologos, LLC
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Library General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the
.\" Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Cambridge,
.\" MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.so lis.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database lis.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH FATTACH 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System Admin."
.SH NAME
.B fattach
\- attach a \fISTREAMS\fR file to a path name in the file system
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "fattach [-v] [-m|-u|-M" "<mode>" "] [-p|-c|" "<STREAMS path>" "] " "<path> ..."
.br
.B  "fattach -?"
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B fattach
program provides a command-line interface to the underlying
.BR fattach "(3) "
function.
If the
.B "\-p"
and/or the
.B "\-c"
option is specified, a
.I STREAMS
.I pipe
is created and its two ends are alternately attached to the path names
given.  In this mode of usage, at least two path names are required,
but there need not be an even number of path names (i.e., the pipe ends
need not be attached to the same number of paths).
.sp
If the
.B "\-p"
and
.B "\-c"
options are not specified, the first path name given must identify
a
.I STREAMS
file.  That file will be opened, and it will be attached
to each of the path names subsequently specified (of which there must
be at least one).
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-p"
Create a
.I STREAMS
pipe, to which to attach the subsequently specified path names.
The first path will be attached to the first pipe end, the second to the
second pipe end, the third to the first pipe end, etc., until the list
of path names is exhausted.
.sp
By default, the 
.IR umask
(see
.BR umask "(2)) "
is also applied to each end of the pipe after attaching. (See
.BR fattach "(3))."
.TP
.B "\-c"
Like
.B "\-p" (both may be given), but additionally pushes the
.B connld
module onto the first end of the pipe.  This conveniently creates a
free-standing
.I "pipe-serving"
pipe (see
.BR connld "(9), "
and below).
.TP
.B "\-m"
Apply the mode of the last-specified path(s) to the attached
.I STREAMS
file(s) after attaching.  (See
.BR fattach "(3)."
.TP
.B "\-u"
Apply the
.IR umask
(see
.BR umask "(2)) "
the
.I STREAMS
file after attaching. (See
.BR fattach "(3))."
This is done by default when a pipe is created via
.BR "\-p" .
.TP
.BI "\-M" " <mode>"
Apply the given mode to the
.I STREAMS
file(s) after attaching.  (See
.BR fattach "(3))."
.TP
.B "\-v"
Operate in a "verbose" manner.  This causes
.B fattach
to report its progress via message output to
.B stdout
or
.BR stderr .
.TP
.B "\-?"
Provide a usage summary.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, i.e., if all given path names are attached
to,
.B fattach
returns 0.
.\"
.\"
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.PP
Upon failure,
.B fattach
returns 1.
However, the failure of one more attachments does not otherwise affect
those that succeed, and the user is responsible for detaching any that
may have succeeded if that is the desired behavior in the event of any
failures.
.\"
.\"
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.B "\-p"
and
.B "\-c"
options provide a convenient means for creating free-standing
.I mounted
.BR pipes ". "
The openers of the paths attached via
.B "\-p"
will share a single pipe, while the openers of the paths attached via
.B "\-c"
will have access to a
.I "pipe-serving"
pipe.  I.e., each open of the first end (e.g., the
.I client
end) will generate a new pipe, one end of which will be given to the
opener, and the other end of which will be passed as if by the
.B I_SENDFD
.I ioctl
to the path attached to the other end (e.g., the
.I server
end).  Each opener of the server path could
.BR poll "(2) "
for input, receive a new pipe end using the
.B I_RECVFD
.IR ioctl ", "
and then close the server path, therefter using the new pipe end to
communicate with the corresponding opener of the client path (note that
the sense of
.I client
and
.I server
will in fact depend on the application - users of the two paths need
only be aware of whether or not an
.B I_RECVFD
.I ioctl
must be performed).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B fattach
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR connld "(9), "
.BR fattach "(3), "
.BR fdetach "(3), "
.BR fdetach "(8), "
.BR STREAMS "(4), "
.BR umask "(2)"
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR fattach
is compatible with
.B LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR fattach
is
.BR LiS -specific
and does not conform to any standard.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
An
.B fdetach
function has been provided for various
.I STREAMS
implementations based on SVR4
.[
svr4
.]
.IR STREAMS .
Not all of these have provided a corresponding utility program of this
sort.
.PP
The
.BR --help " and " --version
flags were added to comply with GNU coding standards;
.B --copying
for OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.B LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Boyd, protologos LLC.
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T3
