.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000  John A. Boyd Jr.  protologos, LLC
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Library General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the
.\" Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Cambridge,
.\" MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH FDETACH 8 "24 Apr 2000" "LiS 2.9" "Linux STREAMS"
.SH NAME
.B fdetach
\- detach
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
file(s) from path name(s) in the file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "fdetach [-v] " "<path> ..."
.br
.B "fdetach -a"
.br
.B "fattach -?"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B fdetach
program provides a command-line interface to the underlying
.BR fdetach "(3) "
function.
.sp
It is thus intended to provide a convenient means to dismantle so-called
.I mounted
.BR STREAMS .
.sp
If the
.B "\-a"
option is specified, all currently attached
.BR STREAMS "\-based
files are detached.
If the
.B "\-a"
option is not specified, the path names given are taken to identify
paths to which
.BR STREAMS "\-based"
files are currently attached.
Those files will be detached from these paths.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-a"
Undo all attachments currently in effect.
.TP
.B "\-v"
Operate in a "verbose" manner.  This causes
.B fdetach
to report its progress via message output to
.B stdout
or
.BR stderr .
.TP
.B "\-?"
Provide a usage summary.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, i.e., if all given path names identify
.I mounted
.B STREAMS
and these are all successfully detached, 
.B fdetach
returns 0.  Upon failure,
.B fdetach
returns 1.
.sp
Note, however, that a failure indication does not mean that no action
is taken; i.e., those detachments that succeed are not affected by
those that fail.
.SH WARNINGS
It should be noted that although the
.B fdetach
program implements the
.B "\-a"
option, by passing "*" to the
.B fdetach
function, this is not at all equivalent to specifying "*" on the
command line when executing the program.
Normally, "*" specified on the command line will be converted by
a shell into a list of all files in the current working directory.
By contrast, the
.B "\-a"
option causes the
.B fdetach
operation to operate not with respect to path names at all, but with
respect to
.B STREAMS
devices currently active within the
.B STREAMS
subsystem.  I.e., each active stream head is examined for attachments,
and any attachments found are dismantled.
.sp
The intended use for the
.B "\-a"
option is thus to undo all attachments, e.g., in preparation
for unloading the
.B STREAMS
subsystem.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fdetach "(3), "
.BR fattach "(8), "
.BR STREAMS "(4) "
.SH HISTORY
An
.B fdetach
function has been provided for various
.B STREAMS
implementations based on SVR4
.BR STREAMS .
Not all of these have provided a corresponding utility program of this
sort.
.SH AUTHOR
John Boyd, protologos LLC.
