'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: specfs.5.man,v 0.9.2.7 2005/03/30 13:38:31 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:38:31 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH SPECFS 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B specfs
\- \fISTREAMS\fR special device shadow file system
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1
mount -t specfs none /dev/streams
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B specfs
filesystem is a
.B Linux
filesystem
(see
.BR fs (5))
that provides a
.I STREAMS
shadow special file system that supports
.I STREAMS
special character devices.
The
.B specfs
filesystem is always loaded and present in the kernel when the
.B streams
kernel module is loaded.
.PP
When
.BR open (2)
is performed on a character special device corresponding to a
.I STREAMS
driver, the inode attached to the filepointer associated with the opening file
descriptor is replaced with an inode from the
.B specfs
file system that represents a minor node of the
.I STREAMS
character special device.  The original inode (as a device in the
.B /dev
directory) no longer plays a part until another
.BR open (2)
is performed.  This is in fitting with the description of the
.I vnode
and
.I snode
in
.RI \(lq "The Magic Garden" \(rq.
.[
magic
.]
.\"
.PP
In support of naming streams (see
.BR fattach (2),
.BR fattach (3),
.BR fdetach (3)
and
.BR fdetach (8))
directory entries (devices) in the
.B specfs
file system can be mounted on files in other file systems.
The
.B Linux
kernel supports file on file mounting, and the
.BR fattach (3)
and
.BR fdetach (3)
user functions are provided by
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
to permit mounting and unmounting of device nodes from the
.I specfs
file system on regular files in other file systems.
.\"
.\"
.PP
As an additional feature, the entire
.B specfs
file system is mountable.  Recommended practise is to create a mount point in
the device directory
.B /dev/streams
and mount the
.B specfs
file system there with a command similar to the following in a boot script:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
mount -t specfs none /dev/streams
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
It is also possible to mount the
.B specfs
file system at more than one mount point in more than one file system.  The
directory hierarchy that is rooted at the mount point is identical to all
mount points.
This permits the
.B specfs
file system to be mounted on the
.B /device
mount point in a fashion similar to
.IR Solaris \(rg.
See
.BR mount (8)
for additional information.
.\"
.\"
.SH "MOUNT OPTIONS"
.PP
The
.B specfs
file system accepts the following options to the
.BR mount (8)
command:
.TP
.BI uid= value
Set the user for all directory and device nodes created within the
.B specfs
file system.
The value must be numeric, but can be decimal, hexadecimal or octal in shell
notation.  See
.BR strtoul (3).
The default is to use the user id of the user creating the directory or node.
.TP
.BI gid= value
Set the group for all directory and device nodes created within the
.B specfs
file system.
The value must be numeric, but can be decimal, hexadecimal or octal in shell
notation.  See
.BR strtoul (3).
The default is to use the group id of the user creating the directory or node.
.TP
.BI mode= value
Set the mode for all directories and device nodes created within the
.B specfs
file system.
The value must be numeric, but can be decimal, hexadecimal or octal in shell
notation.  See
.BR strtoul (3).
The default is to use the mode specified by the device driver at initialization.
.\"
.\"
.SH "DIRECTORY FORMAT"
.PP
.PP
When mounted at
.BR /dev/streams  " or " /device ,
the
.B specfs
file system exhibits a number of special properties:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
Attempting to read the
.BI /dev/streams/ devname /
directory, where the 
.BI /dev/streams/ devname /
directory does not yet exist, will result in an attempt to load the
.I STREAMS
kernel module named
.BI /dev/streams/ devname /
and if that is not successful, the kernel module named
.BI streams- devname\fR.
.IP 2.
Attempting to
.BR open (2)
a character special device in a device directory named
.BI /dev/streams/ devname / nnnn
will result in the
.RI \(lq nnnn 'th\(rq
instance of the
.I devname
driver being opened.
.IP 3.
Calls to
.BR register_strnod (9)
and
.BR unregister_strnod (9),
or the
.I Solaris \(rg
SUNDDI functions
.BR ddi_create_minor_node (9)
and
.BR ddi_remove_minor_node (9),
from within a
.I STREAMS
driver will create or remove the named node
.BI /dev/streams/ devname / minname
device node, where
.I devname
is the name of the driver invoking these function, and
.I minname
is the requested name for the minor device node.
.IP 4.
A device node,
.BI /dev/streams/clone/ devname
will be created when a
.I STREAMS
driver named
.I devname
registers using the
.BR register_strdev (9)
utility, or any of the other compatibility
.I STREAMS
driver registration functions.
.PP
The behaviour is similar in some respects to the
.IR Solaris \(rg
.B /device
file system, the
.B Linux
.BR devfs ,
and the
.B Linux
.BR ptsfs .
.PP
These characteristics greatly simply device naming and numbering.  A simple
symbolic link within the
.B /dev
file system is sufficient to demand load the necessary kernel module and open
the appropriate instances of the
.I STREAMS
device without need to reference device major or device minor numbers.  For a
discussion of the other methods of device naming and numbering, see the
.RI \(lq "Device Numbering" \(rq
section of the
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS Programmer's Guide" ,
.BR SPG (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Device nodes in a
.BI /dev/streams/ devname /\fR,
subdirectory such as
.BI /dev/streams/ devname /299\fR,
return to
.BR stat (2),
.BR fstat (2)
or
.BR lstat (2)
the truncated internal device number in the
.I st_dev
field of the
.B stat
structure.
(The truncated internal device number is the internal device number of the
device composed of module ID as major device component and instance number
as minor device component truncated to OS limits.  Under Linux 2.4 kernels,
this is the 16-bit module ID truncated to an 8-bit major device number and the
16-bit instance number truncated to an 8-bit minor device number.)
.PP
.I STREAMS
devices other than pipes, fifos or sockets return
.B S_IFCHR
in the
.I st_mode
field indicating that the device is a character special device.
The node types for pipes, fifos or sockets are appropriately returned as
.BR S_IFIFO ", " S_IFIFO " and " S_IFSODCK .
.PP
Permission set on directories and device nodes within the
.B specfs
file system do not affect the permissions on normal
.B /dev
character special device nodes corresponding to
.I STREAMS
devices.
.PP
Mounting the
.B specfs
file system presents some unique security concerns listed below.  The most
secure approach is to not mount the file system.
.IP a) \w'm)\(em'u
Any user with create permission to the
.B /dev/streams
mount point can cause an almost arbitrary kernel module aliased
.BI /dev/streams/ devname /
or
.BI streams- devname
to be loaded by simply listing or entering the
.BI /dev/streams/ devname /
subdirectory.
.IP b)
Any user with the permissions to open or create a device node in a
.BI /dev/streams/ devname /
subdirectory can create a new stream or open an existing stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The
.B specfs
file system is implemented with the
.I SPECFS
kernel module,
.BR specfs ,
as a normal pseudo-file system under
.B Linux .
.PP
When the
.B specfs
is compiled as a loadable kernel module and the kernel is configured for
.BR kmod ,
mounting the special file system will demand-load the kernel module.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1
mount -t specfs -o uid=0,gid=0,mode=0666 none /dev/streams
mount -t specfs -o uid=0,gid=0,mode=0666 none /device
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.PD 0
.BI /dev/streams/ devname / nnnn
.PP
.BI /dev/streams/ devname / minname
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR fs (5),
.BR mount (8),
.BR umount (8),
.BR fattach (3),
.BR fdetach (3),
.BR fdetach (8),
.BR register_strdrv (9),
.BR unregister_strdrv (9),
.BR register_strdev (9),
.BR unregister_strdev (9),
.BR SPG (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B specfs
filesystem is compatible with
descriptions of
.I STREAMS
internals for
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
magic
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Although the
.B specfs
filesystem can be mounted at the
.B /device
mount point similar to
.IR Solaris \(rg,
the device hierarchy presented at the
.B /device
mount point is not necessarily the same as
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.IP \(em
Attempts have been made to make the implementation function in the same manner
as the
.I vnode
and
.I snode
Shadow Special Filesystem
described for
.I SVR 4
in
.RI \(lq "The Magic Garden" \(rq;
.[
magic
.]
however, there are many differences and access to the
.B specfs
file system should be left internal to the
.I STREAMS
executive and its structures should not be accessed directly by
portable
.I STREAMS
drivers.
.IP \(em
Neither source nor binary compatibility of the
.B specfs
file system is guaranteed.
.IP \(em
The
.B specfs
file system is provide for compatabilty with
.I SVR 4
for the purpose of porting
.I STREAMS
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions differ, binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
The
.B specfs
file system only provides functionality comparable to
.I SVR 4
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.  Any and all functionality provided by the
.B specfs
file system in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices is not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for more compatablity information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Descriptions of the
.B specfs
file system in
.RI \(lq "The Magic Garden" \(rq.
.[
magic
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B specfs
file system first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
