'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strapush.5.man,v 0.9.2.2 2005/12/06 14:09:16 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/12/06 14:09:16 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH STRAPUSH 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Data Structures"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strapush
\- \fISTREAMS\fR autopush structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The
.B strapush
structure, defined in
.RB < sys/sad.h >,
is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct strapush {
        unsigned int sap_cmd;
        long sap_major;
        long sap_minor;
        long sap_lastminor;
        long sap_npush;
        char sap_list[MAXAPUSH][FMNAMSZ + 1];
        int sap_anchor;
        char sap_module[FMNAMSZ + 1];
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The
.B strapush
structure contains the following members:
.TP \w'\fBsap_lastminor\fR\(em'u
.I sap_cmd
the autopush command; one of:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBSAD_GAP_SOL\fR\(em'u
.B SAD_SAP
set autopush list;
.PD 0
.TP
.B SAD_GAP
get autopush list;
.TP
.B SAD_VML
verify module list;
.TP
.B SAD_SAP_SOL
set autopush list (with anchor),
.IR Solaris \(rg;
.[
soldoc
.]
.TP
.B SAD_GAP_SOL
get autopush list (with anchor),
.IR Solaris \(rg;
.[
soldoc
.]
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I sap_major
major device number to which command applies;
.PD 0
.TP
.I sap_minor
(first) minor device number (of range) to which command applies;
.TP
.I sap_lastminor
last minor device number of range to which command applies;
.TP
.I sap_npush
number of modules;
.TP
.I sap_list
list of module names;
.TP
.I sap_anchor
position for anchor;
.TP
.I sap_module
driver name (instead of major device number).
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR "STREAMS Administrative Driver" :
.I User
and
.IR DDI/DKI .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B strapush
structure is a structure defined in
.RB < sys/sad.h >
that is used by the
.IR "STREAMS Adminstrative Driver" ,
see
.BR sad (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B strapush
structure is used by a user level process that opens the
.BR sad (4)
driver and is the argument of a numer of input-output controls,
.IR ioctl (2s),
that are supported by the driver.
See
.BR sad (4)
for details.
.PP
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
also uses the
.B strapush
structure within the
.I STREAMS
subsystem in the kernel for maintaining and controlling
.BR autopush (8)
lists.
See
.BR apush_set (9),
.BR apush_get (9),
.BR apush_vml (9),
for details.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The
.I sap_anchor
member was added for
.IR Solaris \(rg
support.
The
.I sap_module
member was added to support use of a driver name instead of a major device number.
Both are
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
implementation specific members.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.RB < sys/sad.h >
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sad (4),
.BR autopush (8),
.BR apush_set (9),
.BR apush_get (9),
.BR apush_vml (9),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B strapush
structure is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4spg
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B strapush
includes the additional member,
.IR sap_anchor ,
in support of the
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc
.]
anchor mechanism.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications, modules and drivers will not access the
.I sap_anchor
member.
.IP \(em
.B strapush
includes the additional member,
.IR sap_module ,
that permits drivers to be referenced by name instead of only by major device number.  Although this
is a common extension provided by a number of implementations of the
.BR sad (4)
driver, it is non-portable.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications will not access the
.I sap_module
member.
.IP \(em
.B strapush
declares all members directly.  Some implementations, notably
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc
.]
implements this structure as a collection of unions and defines the members as using C pre-processor
macros.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications will not depend on any given member of the structure being directly declared or
declared as a C pre-processor macro.
.IP \(em
Because there are fundamental differences between
.IR "SVR 4.2"
and
.B Linux
data types, binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.IR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3,
.[
susv3
.]
POSIX.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B strapush
data structure first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
