'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strioctl.5.man,v 0.9.2.1 2005/11/21 12:21:46 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/21 12:21:46 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH STRIOCTL 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Data Structures"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strioctl
\- \fISTREAMS\fR I/O control data structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The
.B strioctl
structure is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct strioctl {
        int ic_cmd;           /* command to perform */
        int ic_timout;        /* ioctl timeout period */
        int ic_len;           /* size of data buffer */
        char *ic_dp;          /* addr of data buffer */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The
.B strioctl
structure contains the following members:
.TP \w'ic_timout\(em'u
.I ic_cmd
the
.BR ioctl (2)
command to issue.
.TP
.I ic_timout
the timeout interval to wait for an acknowledgement from the driver, in seconds, zero for
default, or
.B INFTIM
for an infinite wait.
.TP
.I ic_len
the number of bytes of user data in the area pointed to by
.I ic_dp
that is to be passed with the command.
.TP
.I ic_dp
a pointer to the bytes of user data to be passed with the command.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B strioctl
structure is used in a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR I_STR (7)
.BR ioctl (2)
call as described in
.BR streamio (7).
.PP
Declarations for the
.B strioctl
structure are exposed by including the
.RB <sys/stropts.h>
system header file.  On some systems the declarations can be exposed by including the
.RB <stropts.h>
system header file.
.PP
Because it is passed in a system call, the
.B strioctl
structure is defined for both user space programs as well as kernel resident
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers, but, in particular, it is defined within the
.IR "Stream head" .
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The program issuing an
.BR I_STR (7)
command using the
.BR ioctl (2)
system call, passes a pointer to a
.B strioctl
structure as the
.I arg
argument of the command to the
.BR ioctl (2)
call.
.PP
The
.BR I_STR (7)
command results in the issuing of a
.IR STREAMS -based
input-output control command with value
.I ic_cmd
being issued to the
.I STREAMS
driver.
.PP
The call will block awaiting the receipt of an acknowledgement message from the driver, or until
the timeout specified by
.I ic_timout
has elapsed.
.I ic_timout
can be a specified number of seconds, the value zero, or the constant value
.BR INFTIM .
.PP
When set to zero,
.I ic_timout
specifies that the system default timeout for
.IR STREAMS -based
input-output controls should be used.  The default timeout is typically
15 seconds, and can be controllled with the
.B sys.streams.ioctimeout
system control, as described in
.BR sysctl (2).
.PP
When set to
.BR INFTIM ,
the call will block for an indefinite period of time awaiting an acknowledgement.
.PP
Data associated with the input-output control command can be passed with the call.  When there is no
user data to pass, the
.I ic_len
value will be set to zero.
When there is user data to pass, the
.I ic_len
value will indicate the amount of data, starting at the address specified by
.IR ic_dp ,
that is to be passed with the call.
.PP
.BR I_STR (7)
input-output commands can also pass data to the user.  Any data passed to the user will be placed in
the data buffer beginning at the address specified by
.IR ic_dp .
The caller is responsible for ensuring that the buffer beginning at
.I ic_dp
has sufficient room to accept the amount of data that will be passed to the caller, based on the
particular
.I ic_cmd
command being issued.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR I_STR (7),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR M_IOCTL (9),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR ioctl (3p).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This datastructure is declared in the GNU standard system headers, but is specific to
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3,
.[
susv3
.]
POSIX.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B strioctl
data structure first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
