@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: configure.texi,v 1.1.2.3 2006/05/23 22:43:35 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/05/23 22:43:35 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@c This file is include from install.texi and contains the descriptions for
@c package-specific enable/disable and with/without options

In addition, the following @command{configure} options, specific to the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package are available:

@table @command

@item --disable-netperf-dirty
@opindex netperf-dirty
Disable code that dirties buffers before calls to send.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-netperf-histogram
@opindex netperf-histogram
Disable code to keep a histogram of request-response times or time spend in @command{send()}.  This
option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --enable-netperf-old-histogram
@opindex netperf-old-histogram
Enable old pre-2.2pl6 formatted histogram.  This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --disable-netperf-intervals
@opindex netperf-intervals
Disable code to allow pacing of sends in UDP, TCP or SCTP tests.  This may have unexpected results
on non-HPUX systems.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-netperf-do-dlpi
@opindex netperf-do-dlpi
Disable code to test to the DLPI implementation.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-netperf-do-sctp
@opindex netperf-do-sctp
Disable code to test the SCTP implementation.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-netperf-do-select
@opindex netperf-do-select
Disable code to do @command{select()} on receive.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --enable-netperf-do-lwp
@opindex netperf-do-lwp
This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --disable-netperf-do-nbrr
@opindex netperf-do-nbrr
Disable code to do non-blocking request-response.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-netperf-do-xti
@opindex netperf-do-xti
Disable code to test the XTI implementation.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-netperf-do-xti-sctp
@opindex netperf-do-xti-sctp
Disable code to test the XTI SCTP implementation.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-netperf-do-unix
@opindex netperf-do-unix
Disable code to test the UNIX domain implementation.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-netperf-do-1644
@opindex netperf-do-1644
Disable code to test T/TCP vs TCP trasnactions.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --disable-netperf-do-first-burst
@opindex netperf-do-first-burst
Disable code to create an initial burst.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --enable-netperf-use-looper
@opindex netperf-use-looper
Enable looper or soaker processes.  When enabled, use looper or soaker processes to measure CPU
utilization.  These will be forked-off at the beginning.  If you are running this way, it is
important to see how much impact these have on the measurement.  A loopback test on uniprocessor
should be able to consume approximately 100% of the CPU, and the difference between throughput with
@var{USE_LOOPER_CPU} and without should be small for a real network.  If it is not, then some work
probably needs to be done on reducing the priority of the looper processes.  This option defaults to
@samp{disabled}.  Do not enable this option for @cite{Linux}.

@item --enable-netperf-use-pstat
@opindex netperf-use-pstat
Enable code to perform HPUX CPU utilization.  If use on @cite{HP-UX 10.0} and later, this will make
CPU utilitzation measurements with some information returns by the @cite{10.X} @command{pstat()}
call.  This is very accurate, and should have no impact on the measurement.  Astute observers will
notices that the @var{LOC_CPU} and @var{REM_CPU} reates with this method look remarkably close to
the clockrate of the machine.  This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.  Do not enable this option
for @cite{Linux}.

@item --enable-netperf-use-kstat
@opindex netperf-use-kstat
Enable code to Solaris CPU utilitization.  If used on @cite{Solaris 2}, this will make CPU
utilization meansurements using the @command{kstat()} insterface.  This option defaults to
@samp{disabled}.  Do not enable this option for @cite{Linux}.

@item --disable-netperf-use-proc-stat
@opindex netperf-use-proc-stat
Disable use of @file{/proc/stat} interface.  Enabled for @cite{Linux} systems with CPU utilization
info in @file{/proc/stat}.  Provides a fairly accurate CPU load measurement without affecting
measurement.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --enable-netperf-do-ipv6
@opindex netperf-do-ipv6
Enables IPv6 testing.  This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --disable-netperf-do-dns
@opindex netperf-do-dns
Disables DNS testing.  This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --enable-netperf-use-sysctl
@opindex netperf-use-sysctl
Enables use of sysctl on BSD.  When enabled, use the @command{sysctl()} call on FreeBSD (perhaps
other BSDs) to calculate CPU utilization.  This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.  Do not enable
this option for @cite{Linux}.

@item --enable-netperf-use-perfstat
@opindex netperf-use-perfstat
Enable use of perfstat on AIX.  When enabled, use the @command{perfstat()} call on AIX to calculate
CPU utilization.  This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.  Do not enable this option for
@cite{Linux}.

@item --enable-netperf-dont-wait
@opindex netperf-dont-wait
Enable MSG_DONTWAIT on sends.  This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --with-netperf-logfile=@var{LOGFILE}
@opindex netperf-logfile
Specify a debug log file.  This option defaults to @file{/tmp/netperf.debug}.

@end table

