@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: descrip.texi,v 0.9.2.5 2007/08/15 05:06:41 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/08/15 05:06:41 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@cite{Netperf} is a general purpose tool for benchmarking bandwidth and performance of the
@cite{Internet Protocol} suite.  The @cite{OpenSS7 Modified @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is an
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7 Project} release of the of the @cite{Hewlett-Packard}
@file{netperf} package configured to run with @cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS SCTP (Stream Control
Transmission Protocol)} and the @cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS XNS, XTI/TLI} and @cite{INET} packages.

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package provide primarily the @manref{netperf(1)} and
@manref{netserver(8)}, C Language programs that act as @cite{Netperf} client or server for testing
connections and networking.  The @manpage{netserver(8)} program is executed on one host acting as a
server, and then @manpage{netperf(1)} is executed on another host acting in client mode.
Characteristics of the connection or association can be altered when formed.  Reporting formats and
sample intervals can also be altered when the connection or association is formed.  Users executing
@manref{netperf(1)} do not need to have shell access to the @manpage{netserver(8)} host.

This is a fork of the @cite{Netperf} package released by @cite{Hewlett-Packard} modified by the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7 Project} for use with @cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS XNS},
@cite{XTI/TLI}, @cite{INET} and @cite{SCTP} packages.  This @cite{OpenSS7} release of the package is
based on the @file{Netperf-2.3} release from @cite{Hewlett-Packard}.

Modifications to the package are derived from the @cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS XNS}, @cite{XTI/TLI},
@cite{INET} and @cite{SCTP} implementations and are release under the @cite{GNU General Public
License (GPL) Version 3}.  The @dfn{Netperf} tool itself is licensed under specific terms by
@cite{Hewlett-Packard}.  Please see file @file{LICENSES} for the @cite{Hewlett-Packard}
@dfn{Netperf} copyright notices and licensing restrictions.  The @dfn{Netperf} tool is

@quotation
Copyright @copyright{} 1993, 1994, 1995  Hewlett-Packard Company @* All Rights Reserved
@end quotation

See the @cite{Hewlett-Packard} License in the @file{LICENSES} file for complete details.

Please note that this modified version of the @dfn{Netperf} package is not endorsed by
@cite{Hewlett-Packard} in any way and that neither the original copyright holders nor @cite{OpenSS7
Corporation} will take any responsibility in it.

This distribution is only currently applicable to @cite{Linux} 2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted
at @code{ix86}, @code{x86_64}, @code{ppc} and @code{ppc64} architectures, but should build and
install for other architectures as well.

