@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.3 2006/10/03 13:51:29 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/03 13:51:29 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7} releases of the @*
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package as well as compatibility information of
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7} releases to the original
@uref{http://www.hp.com/,, Hewlett-Packard Company} releases.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
* Release netperf-2.3.4.rc3::		Release 4 Candidate 3
* Release netperf-2.3.4.rc2::		Release 4 Candidate 2
* Release netperf-2.3.4rc1::		Release 4 Candidate 1
* Release netperf-2.3.3::		Release 3
* Release netperf-2.3.2::		Release 2
* Release netperf-2.3.1::		Release 1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

This is the fourth full release of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.

This release is largely a maintenance release that provides support for more
distributions an architectures as well as tracking feature updates on related
packages:

@itemize
@item
Updates to permit use with @command{strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}} second
generation @dfn{UDP} driver, @command{strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}}
@dfn{STREAMS} SCTP driver, @command{sctp-@value{VERSION_SCTP}} @dfn{Sockets}
SCTP driver.

@item
Added @command{send-pr} scripts for automatic problem report generation.
(Please do not report bugs on LiS.)

@item
Added @command{--disable-devel} @command{configure} option to suppress
building and installing development environment.  This feature is for embedded
or pure runtime targets that do not need the development enivironment (static
libraries, manual pages, documentation).

@item
Improved compiler flag generation and optimizations for recent @command{gcc}
compilers and some idiosynchratic behaviour for some distributions (primarily
SUSE).  Optimized compilation is now available also for user level programs in
addition to kernel programs.  Added new @option{--with-optimize} option to
@command{configure} to accomplish this.

@item
Better detection of SUSE distributions, release numbers and SLES
distributions: support for additional @cite{SuSE} distributions on @code{ix86}
as well as @code{x86_64}.  Added distribution support includes @cite{SLES 9},
@cite{SLES 9 SP2}, @cite{SLES 9 SP3}, @cite{SLES 10}, @cite{SuSE 10.1}.

@item
Many documentation updates for all @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7}
packages.  Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and
timely text documentation present in the release directory.

@item
Now builds 32-bit compatibility libraries and tests them against 64-bit kernel
modules and drivers.  The @samp{make installcheck} target will now automagically
test both 64-bit native and 32-bit compatibility versions, one after the other,
on 64-bit platforms.

@item
Includes results of performance testing of the new second generation UDP
driver (implemented completely in STREAMS instead of using an internal
socket).

@item
Includes workup of benchmark scripts for SCTP, TCP and UDP.  Added a scls_show
option to perform @samp{scls -c} (see @manref{scls(1)}) to show @dfn{STREAMS}
module and driver statistics between test sample points when verbosity is set
to 2 and XTI is being used.  This assists with performance testing as it shows
the counts accumulated to put and service routinge throughout the
@dfn{Stream}.  It was used in @dfn{UDP2} testing of the @command{strinet}
package and will come in handy for the @dfn{SCTP} testing.
@end itemize

This release was released publicly.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release netperf-2.3.4.rc3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release netperf-2.3.4.rc3
@cindex release netperf-2.3.4.rc3

Third release candidate.
This is a @dfn{maintenance} release candidate.
This release candidate includes:

@itemize
@item
Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and timely text
documentation present in the release directory.

@item
Many documentation updates (for all @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7}
packages).

@item
Includes the changes made to the @command{strsctp} drivers at the @cite{2006
SCTP Interop} at the @cite{University of British Columbia}.  This version was
interoperability tested with all implementations present.

@item
Provides support for additional @cite{SuSE} distributions on @code{ix86} as
well as @code{x86_64}.  Added distribution support includes @cite{SLES 9},
@cite{SLES 9 SP2}, @cite{SLES 9 SP3}, @cite{SLES 10}, @cite{SuSE 10.1}.

@item
Includes workup of benchmark scripts for SCTP, TCP and UDP.  Added a scls_show
option to perform @samp{scls -c} (see @manref{scls(1)}) to show @dfn{STREAMS}
module and driver statistics between test sample points when verbosity is set
to 2 and XTI is being used.  This assists with performance testing as it shows
the counts accumulated to put and service routinge throughout the
@dfn{Stream}.  It was used in @dfn{UDP2} testing of the @command{strinet}
package and will come in handy for the @dfn{SCTP} testing.
@end itemize

This was an internal alpha test release candidate and was not released publicly.
This release was only available to subscribers to and sponsors of the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release netperf-2.3.4.rc2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release netperf-2.3.4.rc2
@cindex release netperf-2.3.4.rc2

Second release candidate.
This is a @dfn{maintenance} release candidate.
This release candidate includes:

@itemize
@item
Includes results of performance testing of the new second generation UDP
driver (implemented completely in STREAMS instead of using an internal
socket).

@item
Includes support for SuSE 10.1.
@end itemize

This was an internal alpha test release candidate and was not released publicly.
This release was only available to subscribers to and sponsors of the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release netperf-2.3.4rc1
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release netperf-2.3.4rc1
@cindex release netperf-2.3.4rc1

First release candidate for Mark Fugate.
This is a @dfn{maintenance} release candidate.
This release candidate includes:

@itemize
@item
Added @option{--enable-devel} configure option for embedded targets.

@item
Added @command{send-pr} script for automatic problem report generation.
@end itemize

This was an internal alpha test release candidate and was not released publicly.
This release was only available to subscribers to and sponsors of the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7 Project}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release netperf-2.3.3
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release netperf-2.3.3
@cindex release netperf-2.3.3

This release is primarily to support additional compilers (gcc 4.0.2),
architectures (x86_64, SMP, 32-bit compatibility), recent Linux distributions
(EL4, SuSE 10, LE2006, OpenSuSE) and kernels (2.6.15).

Corrections for and testing of 64-bit clean compile and test runs on x86_64
architecture.  Some bug corrections resulting from gcc 4.0.2 compiler
warnings.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release netperf-2.3.2
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release netperf-2.3.2
@cindex release netperf-2.3.2

Many corrections (but not enough) are included to use the package for XTI INET
testing.  UDP works now, but TCP is not completely corrected yet (and,
therefore, neither is SCTP).  These capabilities could not have possibly
worked in the original @cite{netperf-2.3} release.  The next release should
have TCP and SCTP corrected for XTI.

Corrections included to make the package cross-build for @cite{Nex@-us@-Ware}
as well as recent 2.6.14 (FC4) kernels.

What remains to be done is to merge in the latest upstream release of netperf
into this package and contribute XTI corrections back upstream.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release netperf-2.3.1
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release netperf-2.3.1
@cindex release netperf-2.3.1

Initial autoconf/RPM packaging of the @command{@value{PACKAGE}} release.  It
is based on the @uref{http://www.hp.com/,, Hewlett-Packard Company}
@cite{netperf-2.3} release.

This release provides modifications to support the Stream Control Transmission
Protocol (SCTP) and provides tests for the Sockets API for the OpenSS7 Linux
Native Kernel version of SCTP as well as tests for the XTI API for the OpenSS7
STREAMS version of SCTP.  In addition, use of the XTI API for TCP and UDP
tests is supported using the OpenSS7 STREAMS INET package.

SCTP Sockets API tests depend upon the availability of an the OpenSS7 Sockets
implementation of SCTP in an OpenSS7 patched kernel.  Some binary kernels and
prepatched kernel source for popular architectures are provided as RPMs from
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html, the OpenSS7 Project download
page}.

SCTP XTI API tests depend upon the availability of the OpenSS7 STREAMS
implementation of SCTP.  Some binary and source packages for @cite{LiS
STREAMS}, @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}, the @cite{strxnet} XTI/TLI library and
the @cite{strsctp} package are available from
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html, the OpenSS7 Project download
page}.  @ref{Top, Introduction, Introduction, libxnet, The OpenSS7 XNS/XTI
Library Reference Manual}.

Under Linux, the TCP and UDP XTI API tests depend upon the availability of the
OpenSS7 INET driver.  Some binary and source packages for @cite{LiS STREAMS},
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}, the @cite{strxnet} XTI/TLI library and the
@cite{strinet} package (@pxref{Top, Introduction, Introduction, strinet,
OpenSS7 STREAMS INET Driver}) are available from
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html, the OpenSS7 Project download
page}.  @ref{Top, Introduction, Introduction, libxnet, The OpenSS7 XNS/XTI
Library Reference Manual}.

This release also provides updates to the antiquated @cite{netperf-2.1}
release documentation distributed with @cite{netperf-2.3}.
