@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: releases.texi,v 1.1.2.2 2005/06/20 12:00:30 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
@c Copyright (C) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2005/06/20 12:00:30 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is the OpenSS7 Release of the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package, modified for use with OpenSS7
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) Linux Native Kernel and @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} or
@cite{Linux STREAMS} SVR 4.2 STREAMS releases.

The purpose of providing a separate release of this package was to provide support for SCTP as well
as providing the ability to use GNU autoconf tools for maintenance and binary RPM release of the
package; also, to separate the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} tools, headers, drivers and modules from the
@cite{Linux STREAMS} package for use with both @cite{Linux STREAMS} and @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} in
preparation for replacement of the former by the later.

The following sections provide information on @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} releases as well as
compatibility information of OpenSS7 release to the original HP releases of the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package, as well as Linux kernel compatibility.

@menu
* Prerequisites::		Prerequisite packages
* Compatibility::		Compatibility Issues
* Release Notes::		Release Notes
* Bugs::			Known Bugs
* Schedule::			Development and Bug Fix Schedule
* History::			Project History
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Prerequisites
@section Prerequisites
@cindex prerequisites

Prerequisites for the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package are as follows:

@itemize @bullet
@item A fairly LSB compliant GNU/Linux distribution.
@footnote{@xref{GNU/Linux Distributions}, for more information.}
@item Linux 2.4 or 2.6 kernel (2.4.10 - 2.4.27) or (2.6.3 - 2.6.10)
@item glibc2 or better.
@item GNU info (for info files).
@item GNU groff (for man pages).
@footnote{If you are using a Debian release, please make sure to install the groff extension package
(@samp{groff_ext}), as it contains the @command{refer} or @command{grefer} commands necessary for
including references in the manual pages.}
@end itemize

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Compatibility
@section Compatibility
@cindex compatibility

This section discusses compatibility with major prerequisites.

@menu
* GNU/Linux Distributions::	Compatibility to GNU/Linux Distributions
* Linux Kernel::		Compatibility to Linux Kernels
* Linux STREAMS::		Compatibility to LiS
* Linux Fast-STREAMS::		Compatibility to LfS
* HP Netperf::			Compatibility to HP Netperf
@end menu

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node GNU/Linux Distributions
@subsection GNU/Linux Distributions
@cindex GNU/Linux Distributions

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is compatible with the following @dfn{Linux} distributions:

@itemize @bullet
@item RedHat Linux 7.2 (RH7)
@item RedHat Linux 7.3 (RH7)
@item Performance Technlogies @dfn{NexusWare24}
@item RedHat Linux 8.0 (RH8)
@item RedHat Linux 9 (RH9)
@item SuSE 8.0 Professional
@item Fedora Core 1 (FC1)
@item Debian 3.0r2 Woody
@item Mandrakelinux 9.2 (MDK92)
@item RedHat Enterprise Linux 3.0 (EL3)
@item WhiteBox Enterprise Linux 3.0 (WBEL3)
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 3.4 (centos34)
@item Fedora Core 2 (FC2)
@item SuSE 9.1 Personal
@item Mandrakelinux 10.0 (MDK100)
@item SuSE 9.2 Professional (SuSE9.2)
@item Mandrakelinux 10.1 (MDK101)
@item Fedora Core 3 (FC3)
@item RedHat Enterprise Linux 4 (EL4)
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 4.0 (centos4)
@item WhiteBox Enterprise Linux 4 (WBEL4)
@item Fedora Cored 4 (FC4)
@item Debian 3.1r0a Sarge
@item Lineox 4.026 (LEL4)
@item Mandriva Linux LE2005 (MDK102)
@end itemize

When installing from the tarball (@pxref{Installing the Tar Ball}), this distribution is probably
compatible with a  much broader array of distributions than those listed above.  These are the
distributions against which the current maintainer creates and tests builds.

@node Linux Kernel
@subsection Kernel
@cindex Kernel

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} compiles as a @dfn{Linux} kernel module.  It is not ncessary to patch the
@dfn{Linux} kernel to use the package.  At a later date, it is possible to move this package into the
kernel.

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is compatible with 2.4 kernel series after 2.4.10.  It has been tested
up to and including 2.6.10.

@node Linux STREAMS
@subsection Linux STREAMS
@cindex Linux STREAMS

@node Linux Fast-STREAMS
@subsection Linux Fast-STREAMS
@cindex Linux Fast-STREAMS

@node HP Netperf
@subsection HP Netperf
@cindex HP Netperf

This section addresses compatibility issues between @cite{OpenSS7} and @cite{Hewlett-Packard}
releases of @cite{netperf}.

@subsubheading @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION} and Netserver Compatibility

OpenSS7 modifications to support SCTP does not alter the datastructures or exchange between the
@command{netperf} client and the @command{netserver} server.  New structures and test definitions
have been added for SCTP that are largely consistent with those of TCP.  Specifically, a
@cite{netperf-2.3} client should be able to connect and perform tests with a
@cite{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}} server.  Also, a @cite{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}}
client should be able to connect and perform tests (other than SCTP) with a @cite{netperf-2.3}
server.

@subsubheading @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION} and Option Compatibility

OpenSS7 releases provide all options compiled-in to the client and server.  This obviates the need
for editing makefiles and recompiling the client or server from source as is described in the
@cite{Hewlett-Packard Company} documentation.

@subsubheading @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION} and SCTP Compatibility

SCTP Socket API tests are (likely) only compatible with the OpenSS7 Sockets implementations of SCTP.
The reason for this is that the OpenSS7 Sockets implementations use the POSIX standard socket API
rather than the non-standard socket API described in documents such as
@cite{draft-stewart-tsvwg-sctpsocket-xx.txt}.

SCTP XTI API tests are (likely) only compatible with the OpenSS7 STREAMS implementation  of SCTP,
and the OpenSS7 XTI over Sockets implementation (@pxref{Top, Introduction, Introduction, strinet,
OpenSS7 STREAMS INET Driver}) with the OpenSS7 Linux Native SCTP Sockets implementation.  The reason
for this is that the OpenSS7 STREAMS implementation uses the X/Open XNS 5.2 SUSv2 UNIX'98 standard
XTI interface rather than the non-standard socket API described in documents such as
@cite{draft-stewart-tsvwg-sctpsocket-xx.txt}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release Notes
@section Release Notes
@cindex release notes

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @*
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package
as well as compatibility information of OpenSS7 releases to the original
Hewlett-Packard Company releases.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@subsection Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

Initial autoconf/RPM packaging of the @command{@value{PACKAGE}} release.  It is
based on the Hewlett-Packard Company @cite{netperf-2.3} release.

This release provides modifications to support the Stream Control Transmission
Protocol (SCTP) and provides tests for the Sockets API for the OpenSS7 Linux
Native Kernel version of SCTP as well as tests for the XTI API for the OpenSS7
STREAMS version of SCTP.  In addition, use of the XTI API for TCP and UDP tests
is supported using the OpenSS7 STREAMS INET package.

SCTP Sockets API tests depend upon the availability of an the OpenSS7 Sockets
implementation of SCTP in an OpenSS7 patched kernel.  Some binary kernels and
prepatched kernel source for popular architectures are provided as RPMs from
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html, the OpenSS7 Project download page}.

SCTP XTI API tests depend upon the availability of the OpenSS7 STREAMS
implementation of SCTP.  Some binary and source packages for @cite{LiS STREAMS},
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}, the @cite{strxnet} XTI/TLI library and the
@cite{strsctp} package are available from
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html, the OpenSS7 Project download page}.
@ref{Top, Introduction, Introduction, libxnet, The OpenSS7 XNS/XTI Library
Reference Manual}.

Under Linux, the TCP and UDP XTI API tests depend upon the availability of the
OpenSS7 INET driver.  Some binary and source packages for @cite{LiS STREAMS},
@cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}, the @cite{strxnet} XTI/TLI library and the
@cite{strinet} package (@pxref{Top, Introduction, Introduction, strinet, OpenSS7
STREAMS INET Driver}) are available from
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html, the OpenSS7 Project download page}.
@ref{Top, Introduction, Introduction, libxnet, The OpenSS7 XNS/XTI Library
Reference Manual}.

This release also provides updates to the antiquated @cite{netperf-2.1} release
documentation distributed with @cite{netperf-2.3}.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Bugs
@section Bugs
@cindex bugs

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} has many known bugs.  These are alpha releases.  Use at your own risk.
Remember that there is @b{NO WARRANTY}.@footnote{See section @b{NO WARRANY} under @ref{GNU General
Public License}.}

@b{This software is @i{alpha} software.  As such, it will likely crash your kernel.  Installation
of the software may irreparably mangle your header files or Linux distribution in such a way as to
make it unusable.  Crashes will likely lock your system and rebooting the system might not repair the
problem.  You can loose all the data on your system.  Because this software can crash your kernel,
the resulting unstable system could destroy computer hardware or peripherals making them unusable.
You will likely void the warranty on any system on which you run this software. YOU HAVE BEEN
WARNED.}

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Schedule
@section Schedule
@cindex schedule

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node History
@section History
@cindex history

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

