@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=78 nocin nosi
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: todo.texi,v 0.9.2.3 2006/10/05 12:13:36 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/05 12:13:36 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

Things to do:

@itemize @minus
@item
Merge in upstream changes from the latest @cite{Hewlett-Packard} release of
the @cite{Netperf} package into the @cite{OpenSS7 Modified} version.  I would
really like to do this but don't have the time for it right now.  If someone
is willing to dive in and give this a try, send me the patches.

@item
@cite{Netperf} is capable of performing performance testing on @cite{lksctp}
as well.  I would like to modify the @cite{OpenSS7} version of @cite{Netperf}
to support both so that performance comparison testing can be done between
@cite{lkstcp} (which sucks of course) and @cite{OpenSS7 Linux Natve Sockets}
version.

@item
Get the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} version working also with @cite{OpenSS7
Linux Native Sockets SCTP} in addition to the current @cite{STREAMS SCTP XTI}
support.  This would not only allow @cite{Netperf} to be used successfully
with @cite{OpenSS7 Linux Native SCTP}, but it would also comparison tests
between @dfn{STREAMS} and @dfn{Sockets} versions.  This is something that I
would really like to do.  As @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} @dfn{STREAMS}-based
pipes beat FC4 Native pipes on 2.6.14 in a performance test, it would be
interesting to see whether the @dfn{STREAMS} version can out perform the
@dfn{Sockets} version.  This would be an answer to the time old question as to
whether @dfn{Sockets} or @dfn{STREAMS} is faster.
@end itemize

@itemize @bullet
@item
Redo performance tests for @command{strxnet}/@command{strinet} package using
recent release of @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}.

@emph{*done*}

@item
Perform x86_64 HT SMP testing.

@emph{*done*}
@end itemize

