'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_DI.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-07-11 09:46:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-11 09:46:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: N_DI.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-07-11 09:46:28  brian
.\" - roughed in implementation, updated documentation
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-03 11:42:28  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH N_DI 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Layer Interface (NLI)"
.SH NAME
.B N_DI
\- Disconnect Request and Disconnect Indication
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
Network Layer Interface (NLI),
.[
nli Revision 0.9.2
.]
.BR nli (7).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
.B #include <netx25/x25_proto.h>

struct xdiscf {
    unsigned char xl_type;
    unsigned char xl_command;
    unsigned char originator;
    unsigned char reason;
    unsigned char cause;
    unsigned char diag;
    int conn_id;
    unsigned char indicated_qos;
    struct xaddrf responder;
    struct xaddrf deflected;
    struct qosformat qos;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The Disconnect Request or Indication message primitive, \fBN_DI\fP, is used
by the NS user to reject an incoming connection or disconnect an existing
connection, or by the NS provider to reject an outgoing connection or disconnect
an existing connection.
The control part of the message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block, and
contains the \fBxdiscf\fP structure.
The data part of the message consists of zero or one
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks
containing the Clear User Data (CUD) when supplied.
.PP
The X.25 cause and diagnostic octets, \fIcause\fP and \fIdiag\fP, are
presented, as well as the CONS \fIoriginator\fP and \fIreason\fP codes
mapped from the X.25 cause and diagnostic.  A Disconnect Request for a non-CONS
call can specify a non-zero \fIcause\fP code.  This has no effect for a CONS
call.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The Disconnect Request and Disconnect Indication use the
.B xdiscf
structure.
The control part of the message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block
containing the
.B xdiscf
structure.
The data part of the message consists of zero or one
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks
containing the Clear User Data (if any).
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The \fBxdiscf\fI structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I xl_type
Always \fBXL_CTL\fP.
.TP
.I xl_command
Always \fBN_DI\fP, for both Disconnect Request and Disconnect Indication.
.TP
.I originator
For a CONS call, contains the CONS originator (NS user, NS provider, or
unknown), mapped from the X.25 cause and diagnostic.
This field can have one of the following values:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lnls
lbnls.
Constant:Value:Description
_
NS_UNKNOWN:0:Originator is unknown.
NS_USER:1:Originator is the NS user.
NS_PROVIDER:2:Originator is the NS provider.
_
.TE
.RE
.TP
.I reason
For a CONS call, contains the CONS reason, mapped from the X.25 cause and
diagnostic.
.RS
.PP
This field can have one of the following values when the \fIoriginator\fP is
\fBNS_PROVIDER\fP:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lnls
lbnls.
Constant:Value:Description
_
NS_GENERIC:224:T{
.ad l
.nh
General.
T}
NS_DTRANSIENT:225:T{
.ad l
.nh
Disconnect, transient.
T}
NS_DPERMANENT:226:T{
.ad l
.nh
Disconnect, permanent.
T}
NS_TUNSPECIFIED:227:T{
.ad l
.nh
Reject, unspecified, transient.
T}
NS_PUNSPECIFIED:228:T{
.ad l
.nh
Reject, unspecified, permanent.
T}
NS_QOSNATRANSIENT:229:T{
.ad l
.nh
Reject, QOS unavailable, transient.
T}
NS_QOSNAPERMANENT:230:T{
.ad l
.nh
Reject, QOS unavailable, permanent.
T}
NS_NSAPTUNREACHABLE:232:T{
.ad l
.nh
Reject, NSAP unreachable, transient.
T}
NS_NSAPPUNREAHCABLE:235:T{
.ad l
.nh
Reject, NSAP unreachable, permanent.
T}
_
.TE
.PP
The field can have the following values when the \fIoriginator\fP is
\fBNS_USER\fP:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lnls
lbnls.
Constant:Value:Description
_
NU_GENERIC:240:T{
.ad l
.nh
General.
T}
NU_DNORMAL:241:T{
.ad l
.nh
Disconnect, normal.
T}
NU_DABNORMAL:242:T{
.ad l
.nh
Disconnect, abnormal.
T}
NU_DINCOMPUSERDATA:243:T{
.ad l
.nh
Disconnect, incomprehensible user data.
T}
NU_TRANSIENT:244:T{
.ad l
.nh
Reject, transient.
T}
NU_PERMANENT:245:T{
.ad l
.nh
Reject, permanent.
T}
NU_QOSNATRANSIENT:246:T{
.ad l
.nh
Reject, QOS unavailable, transient.
T}
NU_QOSNAPERMANENT:247:T{
.ad l
.nh
Reject, QOS unavailable, permanent.
T}
NU_INCOMPUSERDATA:248:T{
.ad l
.nh
Reject, Call User Data facility.
T}
NU_BADPROTID:249:T{
.ad l
.nh
Reject, Bad protocol identifier.
T}
_
.TE
.RE
.TP
.I cause
Conveys the X.25 cause octet associated with the disconnect.
.TP
.I diag
Conveys the X.25 diagnostic octet associated with the disconnect.
.TP
.I conn_id
When a Disconnect Request is used to refuse and incoming connection, this field
contains the \fIconn_id\fP from the corresponding Connect Indication message
primitive.
.TP
.I indicated_qos
When non-zero, conveys that facilities and quality of service paraemters are
being indicated.
.TP
.I responder
Conveys the responding address.  This is the local responding address in a
Disconnect Request used to refuse an incoming call, and a remote
responding address in a Disconnect Indication refusing an outgoing call.
.TP
.I deflected
When the \fIcall_deflect\fP field of the associated \fIqos\fP structure is
non-zero, this field conveys the deflected address.  The deflected address is
the address of the remote station to which the call is being deflected.  This is
set by the NS user when deflecting a call with a Disconnect Request refusing an
incoming connection; and by the NS provider when an outgoing call has been
deflected.
.TP
.I qos
Conveys the CONS quality of service parameters and non-OSI facilities associated
with the disconnect.  This is used currently for the charging information when
an existing connection is disconnected, and for the deflection facility when an
incoming or outgoing call is being deflected.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
This primitive is valid in the data transfer phase; it is also valid in the
incoming or outgoing connecting phase.  The call moves to the disconnect phase.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
This primitive is valid in response to a previously sent Connect Request or
received Connect Indication message primitive; or, to simply request or indicate
disconnection of an existing connection.
.PP
When an existing connection is disconnect with a Disconnect Request by the NS
user, the NS user expects a Disconnect Confirmation to acknowledge the
disconnect.  All other message should be discarded from the Stream until the
Disconnect Confirmation is received.
.PP
When a Disconnect Indication is issued by the NS provider, all messages sent
downstream except Connect Request or Connect Response messages are silently
discarded.
.PP
A disconnect collision can occur, where Disconnect Request and a Disconnect
Indication messages collide.  In this case, the Disconnect Indication messages
is taken as a confirmation and no Disconnect Confirmation message should be
expected by the NS user.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The Disconnect Request message primitive is equivalent to the
.BR N_DISCON_REQ (7)
primitive of the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7);
the Disconnect Indication,
.BR N_DISCON_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH CONTEXT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH MT-CONTEXT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The Network Layer Interface (NLI) is a proprietary interface without a formal
standard.  Either the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
or the XTI-X25 interface,
.[
xx25
.]
.BR xti_x25 (3),
should be used in its stead.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.B N_DI
is defined in the
.RB < netx25/x25_proto.h >
file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR xaddrf (5),
.BR lsapformat (5),
.BR qosformat (5),
.BR extraformat (5),
.BR NLI (7),
.IR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B N_DI
is compatible with NLI, and implementations based on NLI such as
.IR "Solaris Solstice" \(rg " X.25 9.2" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
.IR "IRIX SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX X.25/9000" ,
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
with the following considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR "Solaris Solstice" \(rg " X.25 9.2" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
.IR "IRIX SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
are consistent in their documentation of
.BR N_DI .
.IP \(em
NLI is an inherently low level and non-portable interface and should not be
used by portable programs.  Portable programs should use the NPI or XX25
interfaces in its stead.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted: only a rough source compatibility.  Any
binary compatibility exhibited is a bug and is scheduled to be removed in the
next release.
.PP
See
.BR NLI (7),
.IR STREAMS (4),
for additional compatiblity considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The NLI is not a formal standard.  The
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of NLI conforms to documentation for Version 3 of the NLI.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The NLI is an interface originally developed by Spider Systems, Ltd. (now a
division of Emmerson Power).  The NLI interface found its way into may
mainstream UNIX implementations and UNIX-like RTOS sporting STREAMS such as
Windriver's VxWorks.  The NLI was never standardized and remains an inherently
non-portable interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of X.25.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
