'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_PVC_ATTACH.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-07-11 09:46:29 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-11 09:46:29 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: N_PVC_ATTACH.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-07-11 09:46:29  brian
.\" - roughed in implementation, updated documentation
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-03 11:42:28  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH N_PVC_ATTACH 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Layer Interface (NLI)"
.SH NAME
.B N_PVC_ATTACH
\- PVC Attach
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
Network Layer Interface (NLI),
.[
nli Revision 0.9.2
.]
.BR nli (7).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
.B #include <netx25/x25_proto.h>

struct xcallf {
    unsigned char xl_type;
    unsigned char xl_command;
    unsigned short lci;
    union {
        uint32_t link_id;
        uint32_t sn_id;
    };
    unsigned char reqackservice;
    unsigned char reqnsdulimit;
    int nsdulimit;
    int result_code;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The PVC Attach message primitive is used by the NS user when requesting an
attachment of the Stream to a PVC.  The NS provider uses the PVC Attach message
primitive to acknolwedge a previous PVC Attach message primitive issued by the
NS user.
The control part of the message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block
containing the
.B pvcattf
structure.
There is no data part
.RB ( M_DATA (9)
message blocks) associated with this message primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The PVC Attach uses the
.B pvcattf
structure.
The control part of the message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block
containing the
.B pvcattf
structure.
There is no data part
.RB ( M_DATA (9)
message blocks) associated with this message primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The
.B pvcattf
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I xl_type
Always \fBXL_CTL\fP.
.TP
.I xl_command
Always \fBN_PVC_ATTACH\fP, for PVC Attach.
.TP
.I lci
Conveys the logical channel identifier (LCI) of the PVC.
.TP
.I link_id
Conveys the link identifier for the PVC.  This is a Solstice X.25 specific
field.
.RS
.PP
The \fIlink_id\fP and \fIsn_id\fP fields are equivalent, with a slightly
different name and format for Solstice X.25.
.RE
.TP
.I sn_id
Conveys the subnetwork identifier for the PVC.  This is the non-Solstice X.25
specific field.
.RS
.PP
This field is sometimes specified as a
.BR "unsigned long" .
It has been declared as an
.B uint32_t
to support compatibility of 32-bit applications
running over a 64-bit kernel.
.RE
.TP
.I reqackservice
When non-zero, conveys that the receipt confirmation service is requested by the
use of the D-bit.  This field can have one of the following values:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lnls
lbnls.
Constant:Value:Description
_
-:0:No receipt confirmation.
RC_CONF_DTE:1:Confirmation by the remote terminal.
RC_CONF_APP:2:Confirmation by the remote application.
_
.TE
.PP
In the case of receipt confirmation by the remote station, no acknowledgements
are expected or given over the X.25 NLI service interface.  For receipt
confirmation by the remote application, there is a one-to-one correspondence
between D-bit data and acknolwedgements passing in opposite directions.  One
data acknowledgement is received or sent for each D-bit data packet sent or
received over the X.25 NLI service interface.
.RE
.TP
.I reqnsdulimit
When non-zero, conveys that an NSDU concantenation limit is asserted and the
\fInsdulimit\fP field is valid.
.TP
.I nsdulimit
When non-zero, conveys the packet concatenation limit for NSDUs when the
\fIreqnsdulimit\fP field is also non-zero.
.TP
.I result_code
When the PVC Attach message primitive is used by the NS provider to acknowledge
a previous PVC Attach message primitive issued by the NS user, this field is
non-zero when an error has been encountered that prevents the attachment of the
PVC.
.RS
.PP
This field can have one of the following values:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lnls
lbnls.
Constant:Value:Description
_
PVC_SUCCESS:0:Operation was successful.
PVC_NOSUCHSUBNET:1:Subnetwork not configured.
PVC_CFGERROR:2:LCI not in range, no PVCs.
PVC_NODBELEMENTS:3: No database available.
PVC_PARERROR:4:Error in request parameters.
PVC_BUSY:6:PVC in non-attach state.
PVC_CONGESTION:7:Resources unavailable.
PVC_WRONGSTATE:8: State wrong for function.
PVC_NOPERMISSION:9:Inadequate permissions.
PVC_LINKDOWN:10:The link has gone down.
PVC_RMTERROR:11:No reponse from remote.
PVC_USRERROR:12:User interface error detected.
PVC_INTERROR:13:Internal error.
PVC_NOATTACH:14:Not attached yet.
PVC_WAIT:15:Wait code, not to user.
_
.TE
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
This message primitive is valid in the disconnected phase.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
When an NS user issues a PVC Attach, the NS user expects a PVC Attach message
primitive from the NS provider in response.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The PVC Attach message primitive is equivalent to the
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
and
.BR N_CONN_CON (7)
of the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH CONTEXT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH MT-CONTEXT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The Network Layer Interface (NLI) is a proprietary interface without a formal
standard.  Either the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
or the XTI-X25 interface,
.[
xx25
.]
.BR xti_x25 (3),
should be used in its stead.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.B N_PVC_ATTACH
is defined in the
.RB < netx25/x25_proto.h >
file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR xaddrf (5),
.BR lsapformat (5),
.BR qosformat (5),
.BR extraformat (5),
.BR NLI (7),
.IR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B N_PVC_ATTACH
is compatible with NLI, and implementations based on NLI such as
.IR "Solaris Solstice" \(rg " X.25 9.2" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
.IR "IRIX SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX X.25/9000" ,
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
with the following considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR "Solaris Solstice" \(rg " X.25 9.2" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
.IR "IRIX SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
are consistent in their documentation of
.BR N_PVC_ATTACH .
.IP \(em
NLI is an inherently low level and non-portable interface and should not be
used by portable programs.  Portable programs should use the NPI or XX25
interfaces in its stead.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted: only a rough source compatibility.  Any
binary compatibility exhibited is a bug and is scheduled to be removed in the
next release.
.PP
See
.BR NLI (7),
.IR STREAMS (4),
for additional compatiblity considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The NLI is not a formal standard.  The
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of NLI conforms to documentation for Version 3 of the NLI.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The NLI is an interface originally developed by Spider Systems, Ltd. (now a
division of Emmerson Power).  The NLI interface found its way into may
mainstream UNIX implementations and UNIX-like RTOS sporting STREAMS such as
Windriver's VxWorks.  The NLI was never standardized and remains an inherently
non-portable interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of X.25.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
