'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_RI.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-07-11 09:46:29 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-11 09:46:29 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: N_RI.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-07-11 09:46:29  brian
.\" - roughed in implementation, updated documentation
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-03 11:42:29  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH N_RI 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Layer Interface (NLI)"
.SH NAME
.B N_RI
\- Reset Request and Reset Indication
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
Network Layer Interface (NLI),
.[
nli Revision 0.9.2
.]
.BR nli (7).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
.B #include <netx25/x25_proto.h>

struct xrstf {
    unsigned char xl_type;
    unsigned char xl_command;
    unsigned char originator;
    unsigned char reason;
    unsigned char cause;
    unsigned char diag;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The Reset Request or Indication message primitive, \fBN_RI\fP, is used by
the NS user to request reset of the connection, or by the NS provider to
indicate a remote reset.
The control part of the message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block, and
contains the \fBxrstf\fP structure.
There is no data part
.RB ( M_DATA (9)
message blocks) associated with this message primitive.
.PP
The X.25 cause and diagnostic octets, \fIcause\fP and \fIdiag\fP, are
conveyrs, as well as the CONS \fIoriginator\fP and \fIreason\fP codes,
which are mapped from the \fIcause\fP and \fIdiag\fP.  A Reset Request
on a non-CONS call can specify a non-zero \fIcause\fP code.  This has
no effect for a CONS call.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The Reset Request and Reset Indication use the \fBxrstf\fP structure.
The control part of the message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block
containing the \fBxrstf\fI structure.
There is no data part
.RB ( M_DATA (9)
message blocks) associated with this message primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The \fBxrstf\fP structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I xl_type
Always \fBXL_CTL\fP.
.TP
.I xl_command
Always \fBXL_RI\fP, for both Reset Request and Reset Indication.
.TP
.I originator
For a CONS call, contains the CONS \fIoriginator\fP mapped from the X.25 cause
and diagnostic.  This field can have one of the following values:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lnlss
lbnlss.
Constant:Value:Description
_
NS_UNKNOWN:0:Originator is unknown.
NS_USER:1:Originator is the NS user.
NS_PROVIDER:2:Originator is the NS provider.
_
.TE
.RE
.TP
.I reason
For a CONS call, contains the CONS reason, mapped from the X.25 cause and
diagnostic.
.RS
.PP
This field can have one of the following values when the \fIoriginator\fP is
\fBNS_PROVIDER\fP:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lnlss
lbnlss.
Constant:Value:Description
_
NS_RUNSPECIFIED:233:Unspecified reason.
NS_RCONGESTION:234:Congestion.
_
.TE
.PP
The field can have the following values when the \fIoriginator\fP is
\fBNS_USER\fP:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lnlss
lbnlss.
Constant:Value:Description
_
NS_RESYNC:250:Resynchronization.
_
.TE
.PP
The field can have the following values when the \fIoriginator\fP is
\fBNS_UNKNOWN\fP:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lnlss
lbnlss.
Constant:Value:Description
_
NS_UNKNOWN:0:Unspecified reason.
_
.TE
.RE
.TP
.I cause
Conveys the X.25 cause octet associated with the reset.
.TP
.I diag
Conveys the X.25 diagnostic octet associated with the reset.
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
This message primitive is valid in the data transfer phase.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
A Reset Request and Reset Indication message primitive is an acknowledged
service.  The NS user expects a Reset Confirmation primitive in response to a
Reset Request; the NS provide, a Reset Response primitive in reesponse to a
Reset Indication.
.PP
A collision between a Reset Indication and a Reset Request is taken to
acknolwedge the Reset Request and no Reset Confirmation is then issued.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The Reset Request message primitive is equivalent to the
.BR N_RESET_REQ (7)
of the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7);
the Reset Indication,
.BR N_RESET_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH CONTEXT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH MT-CONTEXT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The Network Layer Interface (NLI) is a proprietary interface without a formal
standard.  Either the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
or the XTI-X25 interface,
.[
xx25
.]
.BR xti_x25 (3),
should be used in its stead.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.B N_RI
is defined in the
.RB < netx25/x25_proto.h >
file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR xaddrf (5),
.BR lsapformat (5),
.BR qosformat (5),
.BR extraformat (5),
.BR NLI (7),
.IR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B N_RI
is compatible with NLI, and implementations based on NLI such as
.IR "Solaris Solstice" \(rg " X.25 9.2" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
.IR "IRIX SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX X.25/9000" ,
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
with the following considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR "Solaris Solstice" \(rg " X.25 9.2" ,
.[
solx25pg
.]
.IR "IRIX SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
are consistent in their documentation of
.BR N_RI .
.IP \(em
NLI is an inherently low level and non-portable interface and should not be
used by portable programs.  Portable programs should use the NPI or XX25
interfaces in its stead.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted: only a rough source compatibility.  Any
binary compatibility exhibited is a bug and is scheduled to be removed in the
next release.
.PP
See
.BR NLI (7),
.IR STREAMS (4),
for additional compatiblity considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The NLI is not a formal standard.  The
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of NLI conforms to documentation for Version 3 of the NLI.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The NLI is an interface originally developed by Spider Systems, Ltd. (now a
division of Emmerson Power).  The NLI interface found its way into may
mainstream UNIX implementations and UNIX-like RTOS sporting STREAMS such as
Windriver's VxWorks.  The NLI was never standardized and remains an inherently
non-portable interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
implementation of X.25.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
