'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: NLI.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-07-11 09:46:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-11 09:46:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: NLI.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-07-11 09:46:28  brian
.\" - roughed in implementation, updated documentation
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-07-01 12:31:06  brian
.\" - updated man pages, drafts, specs, header files
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-03 11:42:28  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH NLI 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Layer Interface (NLI)"
.SH NAME
.B NLI, nli
\- Network Layer Interface (NLI)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <errno.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <stdint.h>
.br
.B #include <netx25/x25_proto.h>
.br
.B #include <netx25/x25_control.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/snet/x25_proto.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/snet/x25_control.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The Network Layer Interface (NLI) is a service primitive interface to the X.25
Packet Layer Protocol (X25-PLP) developed by Spider Systems, Ltd. (now part of
Emmerson Power) for use by applications in controlling X.25 Packet Layer
Protocol software.  The service primitive interface was widely used on
VxWorks, other embedded RTOS,
AIXlink/X.25,
.[
aixlink
.]
HP-UX X.25,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
IRIS SX.25,
.[
sx25
.]
Sun Microsystems SunLink starting with version 8.0 and Solstice X.25,
.[
solx25pg
.]
PT X.25,
.[
ptx25
.]
SBE X.25,
.[
sbex25
.]
RadiSys WAN,
.[
radwan
.]
and other mainstream UNIX operating systems and embedded systems for
communications.
.PP
The interface is not provided as a programming library, as is XTI, but as
defined service primitives to be exchanged with the X.25 PLP driver using
standard STREAMS
.BR getpmsg (2s)
and
.BR putpmsg (2s)
system calls.  Although a user level library could be easily constructed from
these service primtives, in the same way that XTI was built from TPI, it does
not seem to have happened and applications appear to have wound up using the
NLI directly.
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
and other \fBOpenSS7\fP applications, drivers and modules provide primarily a
Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
for devices at this level; however, a compatibility module,
.BR s_nli (4),
is provided to convert between NPI and SpiderX.25 NLI interface for the purposes
of porting SpiderX.25 compatible applications, drivers and modules to
\fBLinux\fP.
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSES
.PP
In call requests and responses, it is necessary to specify the X.25 addresses
associated with the connection.  These addresses consist of the called, calling
and responding addresses.  A common structure is used for these addresses.  The
addressing format used by this stricture provides the following information:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
the subnetwork (data link) on which outgoing Connect Requests are to be
sent and on which incoming Connect Indications arrive;
.IP \(bu
Network Service Access Points (NSAP) and Subnetwork Point of Attachments
(SNPA), or Data Terminal Equipment (DTE) addresses and Link Service Access
Points (LSAP); and,
.IP \(bu
optional formats for the encoding of addresses (NSAP).
.PP
Addresses are represent using an \fBxaddrf\fP structure.  The \fBxaddrf\fP
structure is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#define NSAPMAXISZE 20

struct xaddrf {
    union {
        uint32_t link_id;
        uint32_t sn_id;
    };
    unsigned char aflags;
    struct lsapformat DTE_MAC;
    unsigned char nsap_len;
    unsigned char NSAP[NSAPMAXSIZE];
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I link_id
Holds the link number as a \fBuint32_t\fP.  By default, \fIlink_id\fP has a
valud of \fB0xFF\fP.  When \fIlink_id\fP is \fB0xFF\fP, Solstice
X.25 attempts to match the valled address with an entry in a routing
configuration file.  If it cannot find a match, it routes the call over the
lowest numbered WAN link.
.TP
.I sn_id
The subnetwork identifier, selected by the system administrator.  It
identifies the subnetwork required for a Connect Request, or on which a
Connect Indication arrived.  The
.I sn_id
field holds a representation of the one byte string subnetwork identifier as
an \fBunsigned long\fP.  The X.25 library routine
.BR snidtox25 (3)
can be used to conver the character subnetwork identifier to an unsigned long.
.RS
.PP
Note that in some implementations, the \fIsn_id\fP field is
declared as \fBunsigned long\fP; however, this causes complications for 32-bit
applications running over a 64-bit kernel: i.e., it requires that the data model
of the application be known to the kernel module and conversions be supported.
Therefore, this field appears in the header file as the 32- vs.  64-bit agnostic
\fBuint32_t\fP.
.RE
.TP
.I aflags
Specifies the options required (or used) by the subnetwork to encode and
interpret addresses.  It may have one of the following values:
.RS
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lbnls.
NSAP_ADDR:0x00:\fINSAP\fP is OSI-encoded NSAP address.
EXT_ADDR:0x01:\fINSAP\fP is non-OSI-encoded extended address.
PVC_LCI:0x02:\fINSAP\fP is a PVC number.
PVC_LCI:0x02:\fIDTE_MAC\fP is the LCI of a PVC.
.TE
.PP
When the \fINSAP\fP field is empty, \fIaflags\fP takes the value zero
(0).
See
.BR x25addr (5),
.BR stox25 (3),
.BR x25tos (3),
and
.BR gexhostent (3),
manual pages for details about the X.25 address format.
.RE
.TP
.I DTE_MAC
The DTE address, or LSAP as two BCD digits per byte, right justified, or the
\fBPVC_LCI\fP as three BCD digits with two digits per byte, right
justified.
Holds the DTE address, the Medium Access Control plus Service Access Point
(MAC+SAP) address or the LCI.  This is binary.  The \fBlsapformat\fP structure
is define below.
.TP
.I nsap_len
This indicates the length of the NSAP, if any (and where appropriate), in
semi-octets.
.TP
.I NSAP
This carries the NSAP or address extension (see field
.IR aflags )
when present as indicated by
.IR nsap_len .
This is binary.
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#define LSAPMAXSIZE 9

struct lsapformat {
    unsigned char lsap_len;
    unsigned char lsap_add[LSAPMAXSIZE];
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The fields in the
.B lsapformat
structure are defined as follows:
.TP
.I lsap_len
This gives the length of the DTE address, the MAC+SAP address, or the LCI in
semi-octets.  For example, for Ethernet, the length is always 14 to indicate
the MAC (12) plus SAP (2).  The SAP always follows the MAC address.  The DTE
can be up to 15 decimal digits unless X.25(88) and TOA/NPI (Type Of
Address/Numbering Plan Identification) addressing is being used, when it can
be up to 17 decimal digits.  For an LCI the length is 3.
.TP
.I lsap_add
This holds the DTE, MAC+SAP or LCI, when present, as indicated by
.IR lsap_len .
This is binary.
.\"
.\"
.SH QUALITY OF SERVICE
.PP
Negotiable X.25 facilities are supported by the PLP driver.  This section
describes the request and negotiation of these facilities, and the data
structures used by the NLI primitives.
.PP
The facilities are broken down into two groups:
.PP
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
those required for Connection-Oriented Network Service (CONS) support, and
.PD 0
.IP 2.
those requried for non-OSI procedures (X.29, for example).
.PD
.PP
The CONS quality of service (QOS) parameters supported are the following:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Throughput Class
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
Minimum Throughput Class
.IP \(bu
Target Transit Delay
.IP \(bu
Maximum Acceptable Transit Delay
.IP \(bu
Use of Expedited Data
.IP \(bu
Protection
.IP \(bu
Receipt Acknolwedgement
.PD
.PP
The CONS quality of service structure used in NLI primitives is described in
.BR qosformat (5).
.PP
Non-OSI X.25 Facilities are supported as follows.
Although these are non-OSI facilities, they are also negotiable with CONS.  For
those NLI applications that require them, the non-OSI facilities supported are
as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
non-OSI extended addressing;
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
X.25 fast select request/indication with no restriction on response;
.IP \(bu
X.25 fast select reqeust/indication with restriction on response;
.IP \(bu
X.25 reverse charging;
.IP \(bu
X.25 packet size negotiation;
.IP \(bu
X.25 window size negotiation;
.IP \(bu
X.25 network user identification;
.IP \(bu
X.25 recognized private operating agency selection;
.IP \(bu
X.25 closed user groups;
.IP \(bu
X.25 call deflection; and,
.IP \(bu
X.25 programmable facilities.
.PD
.PP
The X.25 quality of service structure used in NLI primitives is described in
.BR extraformat (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
The primtives provided by the Network Layer Interface are as follows:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
llls
lblbls.
Prim./Manpage:Structure:Description
_
N_CI\fR(7):xcallf:Connect Request/Indication.
N_CC\fR(7):xccnff:Connect Response/Confirmation.
N_Data\fR(7):xdataf:Data.
N_DAck\fR(7):xdatacf:Data Acknowledgement.
N_EData\fR(7):xeadataf:Expedited Data.
N_EAck\fR(7):xedatacf:Expedited Data Acknowledgement.
.\"DTflow\fR(7)::
N_RI\fR(7):xrstf:Reset Request/Indication.
N_RC\fR(7):xrscf:Reset Response/Confirmation.
N_DI\fR(7):xdiscf:Disconnect Request/Indication.
N_DC\fR(7):xdcnff:Disconnect Confirmation.
N_Abort\fR(7):xabortf:Abort Indication.
N_Xlisten\fR(7):xlistenf:Listen Request/Response.
N_Xelisten\fR(7):xlistenf:Extended Listen Request/Response.
N_Xcanlis\fR(7):xcanlisf:Listen Cancel Request/Response.
N_PVC_ATTACH\fR(7):pvcattf:PVC Attach.
N_PVC_DETACH\fR(7):pvcdetf:PVC Detach.
.\"M_CParmReref\fR(7)::
.\"M_CParmUnref\fR(7)::
.\"M_CircuitId\fR(7)::
_
.TE
.PP
Each primitive is documented in its own manual page.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The input-output controls provided by the Network Layer Interface are as
follows:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
llls
llbls.
Ioctl/Manpage:Structure:Description
_
\fBN_snident\fP(7):xll_reg:Identify subnetwork.
\fBN_snmode\fP(7):snoptformat:Adjust subscription mode.
\fBN_snconfig\fP(7):wlcfg:Configure data link.
\fBN_snread\fP(7):wlcfg:Read data link configuration.
\fBN_getstats\fP(7):(array):Get global stats.
\fBN_zerostats\fP(7):(array):Zero global stats.
\fBN_putpvcmap\fP(7):pvcmapf:Put a PVC map.
\fBN_getpvcmap\fP(7):pvcmapf:Get a PVC map.
\fBN_getVCstatus\fP(7):vcstatusf:Get VC stats.
\fBN_getnliversion\fP(7):nliformat:Get NLI version.
\fBN_traceon\fP(7)::Turn tracing on.
\fBN_traceoff\fP(7)::Turn tracing off.
\fBN_nuimsg\fP(7)::Network user info message.
\fBN_nuiput\fP(7):nui_put:Put ntwk user info.
\fBN_nuidel\fP(7):nui_del:Delete ntwk user info.
\fBN_nuiget\fP(7):nui_get:Get ntwk user info.
\fBN_nuimget\fP(7):nui_mget:Multiple get ntwk user info.
\fBN_nuireset\fP(7):nui_reset:Reset ntwk user info.
\fBN_zeroVCstats\fP(7):vcstatusf:Zero
\fBN_putx32map\fP(7)::Put X.32 map.
\fBN_getx32map\fP(7)::Get X.32 map.
\fBN_getSNIDstats\fP(7):persnidstats:Get per-subnet stats.
\fBN_zeroSNIDstats\fP(7):persnidstats:Zero per-subnet stats.
\fBN_setQOSDATPRI\fP(7):qosdatpri:Set QoS data priority.
\fBN_resetQOSDATPRI\fP(7)::Reset QoS data priority.
_
.TE
.PP
Each input-output control is documented in its own manual page.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The Spider Network Layer Interface (NLI) is a proprietary interface without
a \fIformal\fP standard (although its widespread use makes it an \fIipso
facto\fP standard).  The Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
should be used in its stead.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of the NLI has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR getpmsg (2s),
.BR putpmsg (2s),
.BR x25 (4),
.BR s_npi (4),
.BR npi (7),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B NLI
interface is compatible with SpiderX25,
and implementations based on SpiderX25, such as
AIXlink/X.25,
.[
aixlink
.]
HP-UX X.25,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
IRIS SX.25,
.[
sx25
.]
Solstice X.25,
.[
solx25pg
.]
PT X.25,
.[
ptx25
.]
SBE X.25,
.[
sbex25
.]
RadiSys WAN,
.[
radwan
.]
and others, with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Many implementations of SpiderX.25 used under license have deviated from binary
compatibility with the original interface specifications, both in the form and
style of primitives and in the form of input-output controls supported.
.RS
.PP
Many implementations also provide their own extensions to the interface which
are incompatible with all other implementations.  May of these extensions are
purportedly in support of vendor-specific hardware, or systems.
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
attempts to maintain \fIsource\fP compatibilty with the core features provided
by most implementations, but compatibility with all features of all
implementations is not possible.
Your mileage may vary.
.RE
.IP \(em
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides a core \fIsource\fP compatible implementations of the SpiderWAN
interface for the purposes of porting legacy NLI applications, drivers and
modules to \fBLinux\fP with a minimal porting effort.
While \fIsource\fP compatibility with core features is attempted, \fIbinary\fP
compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced could be
broken in a subsequent release.
.RS
.PP
New applications should use the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
instead.
.RE
.PP
For additional compatibility considerations, see
.BR x25 (4),
.BR s_nli (4),
.BR s_npi (4),
.BR npi (7),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms in its core features to the NLI as documented in
AIXlink/X.25,
.[
aixlink
.]
HP-UX X.25,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
IRIS SX.25,
.[
sx25
.]
Solstice X.25,
.[
solx25pg
.]
PT X.25,
.[
ptx25
.]
SBE X.25,
.[
sbex25
.]
RadiSys WAN,
.[
radwan
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Layer Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
