'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: npi_x25.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-05-07 16:01:39 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-05-07 16:01:39 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: npi_x25.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-05-07 16:01:39  brian
.\" - added NLI X.25-PLP CONS and XX25 implemetnation'
.\" doc/man/man3/XX25.3.man
.\" doc/man/man3/xti_x25.3.man
.\" doc/man/man4/X25.4.man
.\" doc/man/man5/strx25.5.man
.\" doc/man/man7/dlpi_lapb.7.man
.\" doc/man/man7/dlpi_llc2.7.man
.\" doc/man/man7/dlpi_x25.7.man
.\" src/drivers/npi.c
.\" src/include/npi_x25.h
.\" src/include/netx25/nli.h
.\" src/include/sys/npi_x25.h
.\" src/modules/dcc.h
.\" src/modules/npi.c
.\" src/modules/xx25.c
.\"
.\"
.\" cvsfiles=
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-03 21:22:39  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strx25.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strx25.macros
.TH NPI-X25 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "NPI Correigendum for X.25"
.SH NAME
.B NPI-X25, npi_x25
\- Network Provider Interface (NPI) \(em Corrigendum for X.25 Conformance
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/npi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_x25.h>
.HP
.BI int " x25_stream " = open(" \(lq/dev/x25-npi\(rq ", " oflags ");
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B NPI-X25
provides a Stream support the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
to the X.25 Packet Layer Protocol (X25-PLP),
.[
x25
.]
.[
iso 8208
.]
driver,
.BR x25-plp (4).
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
This
.IR STREAMS (4)
interface provides the
.BR x25 (4)
protocol service interface using the N-primitves of the
.BR npi (7).
THis interface is intended solely for use by user programs or protocol modules
requiring the common
.BR npi (7)
service interface.  In particular, the
.BR npi (7)
interface to
.BR x25 (4)
is often used by CONS
.[
x223
.]
and other telecommunications protocols such as XOT internal to the kernel.
This is because the
.B NPI-X25
interface provides some richer control that is not available in the
.BR tpi_x25 (7)
interface or the
.BR xti_x25 (3)
library.
.\"
.SH ADDRESS FORMATS
.PP
The X.25 address format is structured as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct {
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B struct
structure contains the following members:
.PP
The address formats are as follows:
.RS
.PP
The SVC address format is as follows:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lblblbcb
lllc.
Byte #:Represents:Value:Format
_
1:line number:0-255:Binary
2:address prefix:0 for X.121:ASCII
3-on:address itself:X.121 address:ASCII
_
.TE
.PP
The PVC address format is as follows:
.TS
tab(:);
lblblbcb
lllc.
Byte #:Represents:Value:Format
_
1:line number:0-255:Binary
2:address prefix:P:ASCII
3-on:logical channel #:0-4095:ASCII
_
.TE
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Quality of Service parameters are formatted according to the format defined
for each network provider.
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef union N_qos_x25 {
    np_ulong               n_qos_type;
    N_qos_co_range_t       n_qos_co_range;
    N_qos_co_sel_t         n_qos_co_sel;
    N_qos_co_opt_range_t   n_qos_co_opt_range;
    N_qos_co_opt_sel_t     n_qos_co_opt_sel;
    N_qos_x25_range_t      n_qos_x25_range;
    N_qos_x25_sel_t        n_qos_x25_sel;
    N_qos_x25_opt_range_t  n_qos_x25_opt_range;
    N_qos_x25_opt_sel_t    n_qos_x25_opt_sel;
} N_qos_x25_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
NPI defines the following standard CONS Quality of Service parameter formats
that are also applicable to X.25:
.SS N_QOS_CO_RANGE
.PP
Used with \fBN_CONN_REQ\fP(7) and \fBN_CONN_IND\fP(7), the structure indicates
the range of Quality of Service parameters from which the NS User is permitted
to select.
.SS N_QOS_CO_SEL
.PP
Used with \fBN_CONN_RES\fP(7) and \fBN_CONN_CON\fP(7), the structure indicates
the Quality of Service parameters selected by the peer NS User and NS
Provider.
.SS N_QOS_CO_OPT_RANGE
.PP
Used with \fBN_OPTMGMT_REQ\fP(7) and \fBN_INFO_ACK\fP, specifies the range of
Quality of Service parameters acceptable to the NS User.
.SS N_QOS_CO_OPT_SEL
.PP
Used with \fBN_OPTMGMT_REQ\fP(7) and \fBN_INFO_ACK\fP, specifies the Quality
of Service parameters selected for the connection.
.PP
NPI defines the following X.25 and non-X.25 Quality of Service and Facilities
parameter formats that are applicable to X.25:
.SS N_QOS_X25_RANGE
.PP
Used with \fBN_CONN_REQ\fP(7) and \fBN_CONN_IND\fP(7), the structure indicates
the range of Quality of Service parameters from which the NS User is permitted
to select.
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
	np_ulong n_qos_type; /* always N_QOS_X25_RANGE */
} N_qos_x25_range_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.SS N_QOS_X25_SEL
.PP
Used with \fBN_CONN_RES\fP(7) and \fBN_CONN_CON\fP(7), the structure indicates
the Quality of Service parameters selected by the peer NS User and NS
Provider.
.SS N_QOS_X25_OPT_RANGE
.PP
Used with \fBN_OPTMGMT_REQ\fP(7) and \fBN_INFO_ACK\fP, specifies the range of
Quality of Service parameters acceptable to the NS User.
.SS N_QOS_X25_OPT_SEL
.PP
Used with \fBN_OPTMGMT_REQ\fP(7) and \fBN_INFO_ACK\fP, specifies the Quality
of Service parameters selected for the connection.


.SS N_BIND_REQ\fR(7)
.PP
.TP
.I ADDR_length ", " ADDR_offset
Specifies the length and offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block of the network address to be bound to the Stream.
.TP
.I PROTOID_length ", " PROTOID_offset
