'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: scls.8.man,v 0.9.2.16 2005/07/17 08:01:25 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/07/17 08:01:25 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strutil.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strutil.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH SCLS 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B scls
\- produces a list of module and driver names
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBscls\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [{\fB-c\fR|\fB--count\fR}|{\fB-l\fR|\fB--long\fR}] [\fIMODULE\fR ...]
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBscls\fR {{\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}|{\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}|{\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
When issued without the
.BR --count " or " --long
options,
.B scls
lists the specified driver or module name if it is loaded on the
.I STREAMS
system, or, if no
.I MODULE
name is specified, the names of all of the drivers and modules currently
loaded on the
.I STREAMS
system.
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--long\fR [\fIMODULE\fR ...]
Produces a listing that shows the extension type, major number, and
information pertaining to the
.B module_info
structure, for each
.I MODULE
name listed, or, if no
.I MODULE
name is specified, all modules on the system.
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--count\fR
Produces a listing showing the number of times an interface routine was
called for each
.I MODULE
name listed, or, if no
.I MODULE
name is specified, all modules on the system.  Information is obtained from
the
.BR module_stat (9)
structure if one is specified for the module.
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Suppresses normal output.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increase or specify the verbosity level of the output.  This option may be
repeated.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
When this options is encountered,
.B scls
displays usage information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B scls
displays versions information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B scls
displays copying and copyright information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.PP
The
.BR --count " and " --long
options are mutually exclusive.
.\"
.\"
.SH AGRUMENTS
.PP
.TP
[\fIMODULE\fR \fI...\fR]
specifies the
.I STREAMS
modules names of interest, or it no
.I MODULE
is specified, refers to all of the
.I STREAMS
modules loaded on the system.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B scls
command provides a method for the caller to query the current
.I STREAMS
configuration.  Options can be used to produce enhanced lists.  Any further
parameters on the command line are module or driver names, and the output
produced is for only those names.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The format of the output without the
.BR --count " or " --long
options is
.sp
.RB < name >,
where
.RS
.TP 12
.RB < name >
is the name of the driver or module.
.RE
.PP
The format of the output with the
.B -l
option is
.sp
.RB < type "> <" major "> <" mi_idnum "> <" mi_idname "> <" mi_minpsz "> <" mi_maxpsz "> <" mi_hiwat "> <" mi_lowat >,
where
.RS
.TP 12
.RB < type >
The module type.  This is either: \(lqmodule\(rq or \(lqdriver\(rq.
.PD 0
.TP
.RB < major >
The major device number
.RI ( %d )
when
.I type
is \(lqDriver\(rq, and a space otherwise.
.TP
.RB < mi_idnum >
The module ID number for the module
.RI ( %d ).
.TP
.RB < mi_idname >
The module name.
.TP
.RB < mi_minpsz >
The minimum packet size accepted.
.TP
.RB < mi_maxpsz >
The maximum packet size accepted.
.TP
.RB < mi_hiwat >
The (initial) high water mark for the queue pair.
.TP
.RB < mi_lowat >
The (initial) low water mark for the queue pair.
.PD
.RE
.PP
The format of the output with the
.B --count
option is
.sp
.RB < ms_pcnt "> <" ms_scnt "> <" ms_ocnt "> <" ms_acnt "> <" ms_flags >,
where
.RS
.TP 12
.RB < ms_pcnt >
The number of calls to the module's
.BR putp (9)
procedure, as a decimal number
.RI ( %lu ).
.PD 0
.TP
.RB < ms_scnt >
The number of calls to the module's
.BR srvp (9)
procedure, as a decimal number
.TP
.RB < ms_ocnt >
The number of calls to the module's
.BR qopen (9)
procedure.
.TP
.RB < ms_acnt >
The number of calls to the module's
.BR qadmin (9)
procedure.
.TP
.RB < ms_flags >
Boolean statistics flags.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful;
one (1) indicates that an error occurred and a diagnostic messages is 
printed to
.BR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message
is printed to
.BR stderr .
.PP
Errors may result from inadequate permissions, inability to open the
.BR nuls (4)
driver, inability to push the
.BR sc (4)
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B scls
command requires the
.BR sc (4)
.I STREAMS
module and the
.BR nuls (4)
.I STREAMS
driver.
If either one is not available, the
.B scls
command will not be successful.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following is an example of the output of the
.B scls
command without options:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1
#> scls
clone
dlb
kinfo
log
nuls
echo
sad
pipe
xtisoUDP
xtisoTCP
ptm
pts
bba
lat
pppif
pppasync
pppcomp
bufcall
null
pass
errm
ptem
spass
rspass
pipemod
timod
tirdwr
ldtty
ifnet
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
Following is an example of the output of the
.B scls
command with the
.B -l
option:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1
#> scls -l
clone           driver     32       0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
dlb             driver     52    5010 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
kinfo           driver     53    5020 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
log             driver     54      44 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
nuls            driver     55    5001 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
echo            driver     56    5000 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
sad             driver     57      45 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
pipe            driver     58    5304 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
xtisoUDP        driver     59    5010 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
xtisoTCP        driver     60    5010 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
ptm             driver     63    7609 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
pts             driver      6    7608 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
bba             driver     64   24880 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
lat             driver      5       5 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
pppif           module           6002 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
pppasync        module           6000 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
pppcomp         module           6001 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
bufcall         module              0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
null            module           5002 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
pass            module           5003 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
errm            module           5003 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
ptem            module           5003 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
spass           module           5007 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
rpass           module           5008 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
pipemod         module           5303 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
timod           module           5006 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
tirdwr          module              0 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
ldtty           module           7701 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
ifnet           module           5501 xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
Following is an example of the output of the
.B scls
command with the
.B --count
option:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1
#> scls -c
clone           %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
dlb             %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
kinfo           %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
log             %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
nuls            %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
echo            %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
sad             %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
pipe            %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
xtisoUDP        %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
xtisoTCP        %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
ptm             %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
pts             %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
bba             %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
lat             %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
pppif           %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
pppasync        %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
pppcomp         %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
bufcall         %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
null            %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
pass            %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
errm            %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
ptem            %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
spass           %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
rpass           %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
pipemod         %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
timod           %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
tirdwr          %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
ldtty           %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
ifnet           %lu     %lu     %lu     %lu     %lx
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR sc (4)
.I STREAMS
configuration module.
.TP
.B /dev/nuls
.I STREAMS
null device, see
.BR nuls (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/scls
contains the
.B scls
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sc (4),
.BR nuls (4),
.BR strinfo (8),
.BR strload (8),
.BR strsetup (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B scls
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg.
This is an
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
command.
.B scls
is provided in
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for compatibility with
.IR AIX \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR AIX \(rg
does not document long options.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
does not document the
.BR -q ", " -v ", " -h ", " -V " or " -C
options.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.IP \(em
The format of the output from the
.B scls
command with the
.BR --count " or " --long
options may be different from that of
.IR AIX \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg
documentation.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B scls
first appeared in
.IR AIX \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
