'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strace.8.man,v 0.9.2.12 2005/05/14 08:34:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/14 08:34:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH STRACE 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strace
\- write \fISTREAMS\fR event trace messages to the standard output
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBstrace\fR [ \fImod\fR \fIsub\fR \fIpri\fR ] ...
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBstrace\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstrace\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstrace\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B strace
command gets
.I STREAMS
event trace messages from
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules via the
.I STREAMS
log driver
.RB ( strlog (4)),
and writes these messages to standard output.  By default,
.B strace
without arguments writes all
.I STREAMS
trace messages from all drivers and modules.
.B strace
with command-line arguments limits the trace messages received.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB-D\fR, \fB--daemon\fR
Daemonize, run in the background, redirect
.B stdout
to
.I OUTFILE
and
.B stderr
to
.IR ERRFILE .
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--directory\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR
Only significant when running as a daemon.
Specifies a directory to contain the messages.  Default is to search for
.RB \(lq /var/adm/streams \(rq
and then
.RB \(lq /var/log/streams .\(rq
.TP
\fB-b\fR, \fB--basename\fR \fIBASENAME\fR
Only significant when running as a daemon.
Specify the log and error file base name.  Default is
.RB \(lq trace \(rq.
.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB--outfile\fR \fIOUTFILE\fR
Only significant when running as a daemon.
Specify the log file output name.  Default is
.RI \(lq BASENAME . pid ,\(rq
where
.I pid
is the current process id.
When run in the foreground,
.B strace
ignores the default.
.TP
\fB-e\fR, \fB--errfile\fR \fIERRFILE\fR
Only significant when running as a daemon.
Specify the error file name.  Default is
.RI \(lq BASENAME . error .\(rq
When run in the foreground,
.B strace
ignores the default.
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--pidfile\fR \fIPIDFILE\fR
Only significant when running as a daemon.
Specify the pid file name to which to write the pid of the daemon process.  The default is
.RB \(lq /var/run/strace.pid .\(rq
When run in the foreground,
.B strace
ignores the default.
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--logdev\fR \fILOGDEVICE\fR
Specifies the log device.  Default is to search
.RB \(lq /dev/strlog ,\(rq
.RB \(lq /dev/streams/log \(rq
and
.RB \(lq /dev/log .\(rq
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Suppresses normal output.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--debug\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increase or specify the debug output level.  This option may be repeated.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increase or specify the verbosity level of the output.  This option may be
repeated.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
When this options is encountered,
.B scls
displays usage information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B scls
displays versions information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B scls
displays copying and copyright information on
.I stdout
and exits.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The arguments, which must be specified in groups of three, are:
.TP
.B mod
Specifies the
.I STREAMS
module identification number from the
.B streamtab
entry.
.TP
.B sub
Specifies a sub-identification number (often corresponding to a minor device).
.TP
.B pri
Specifies a tracing priority level.
.B strace
gets messages of a level equal to or less than the value specified by
.BR pri .
Only positive integer values are allowed.
.PP
The value
.RI \*(lq all \*(rq
can be used for any argument in the
.B strace
command line to indicate that there are no restrictions for that argument.
.PP
Multiple sets of the three arguments can be specified to obtain the messages
from more than one driver or module.
When
.B strace
is invoked, the log driver compares the sets of command line arguments with
actual trace message, returning only messages that satisfy the specified
criteria.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
.I STREAMS
trace event messages have the following format:
.HP
.RB < seq "> <" time "> <" tick "> <" pri "> <" ind "> <" mod "> <" sub "> <" text >
.PP
Components are interpreted as follows:
.TP
.RB < seq >
Trace event sequence number.
.TP
.RB < time >
Time the message was sent expressed in hh:mm:ss.
.TP
.RB < tick >
Time the message was sent express in machine ticks since last boot.
.TP
.RB < pri >
Tracing priority level as defined by the
.I STREAMS
driver or module that originates the messages.
.TP
.RB < ind >
Any combination of the following three message indicators:
.RS
.IP \fBE\fP 3
The message has also been saved in the error log.
.IP \fBF\fP
The message signalled a fatal error.
.IP \fBN\fP
The message has also been mailed to the system administrator.
.RE
.TP
.RB < mod >
Module identification number of the trace message source.
.TP
.RB < sub >
Sub-identification number of the trace message source.
.TP
.RB < text >
Trace message text.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed to
.BR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.BR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR strace (8)
has no ressemblence to the system-call tracing utility of the same name:
.BR strace (1).
.PP
Only one
.B strace
process can open the
.I STREAMS
log driver at a time.
.PP
.B strace
runs until terminated by the caller.
.PP
Running
.B strace
with several sets of arguments can impair
.I STREAMS
performance, particularly for those modules and drivers that are sending the
messages.
Also be aware that
.B strace
may not be able to handle a large number of messages.  If drivers and modules
return messages to
.B strace
too quickly, some may be lost.
.PP
Due to performance considerations, only one
.B strace
command is permitted to open the
.I STREAMS
.B log
driver at a time.  The
.B log
driver has a list of the triplets specified in the command invocation, and
compares each potential trace message against this list to decide if it should
be formatted and sent up to the
.B strace
process.  Hence, long lists of triplets have a greater impact on overall
.I STREAMS
performance.  Running the
.B strace
command has the most impact on the timing of modules and drivers generating
the trace messages that are sent to the
.B strace
process.  If trace message are generated faster than the
.B strace
process can handle them, some of the messages will be lost.  This last case
can be determined by examining the sequence numbers on the trace messages
output.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/strlog ", " /dev/streams/log " or " /dev/log
the
.I STREAMS
logging device.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/strace
contains the
.B strace
command.
.TP
.BR /var/log/streams " or " /var/adm/streams
directory containing the error log files.
.TP
.BI /var/log/streams/trace. "pid \fR or " /var/adm/streams/trace. pid
trace log file.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR strlog (4),
.BR strerr (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B strace
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B strace
is compatible with systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42cr
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Options
.BI -D ", " -b ", " -o ", " -e " and " -l ,
and all long options, are specific to this
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
implementation of
.B strace
and should not be used by portable applications.
.IP \(em
Not other implementation documents the
.BR -q ", " -d ", " -v ", " -h ", " -V " or " -C
options.  They should not be used for portable applications.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.IP \(em
.B "SVR 4.2"
and system based on
.B "SVR 4.2"
permit only on
.B strace
process to be active at a time.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
.B strace
permits multiple
.B strace
processes to be running simultaneously.
The first process to register for the given trace id filter will receive those
trace messages and no other trace process will receive them.
.IP \(em
Under
.IR "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42cr
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
the
.I STREAMS
trace logger is called
.B /dev/log
rather than
.BR /dev/strlog .
.B Linux
already has a
.RB non- STREAMS
based log mechanism (BSD-style) logging device named
.BR /dev/log .
.IP \(em
Under
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
the
.I STREAMS
trace logger is called
.BR /dev/streams/log .
.IP \(em
For compatibility with these operating environments,
.B strace
attempts to open
.BR /dev/streams/log ,
.BR /dev/strlog
and then
.BR /dev/log .
The call to
.B strace
will fail if there is no
.IR STREAMS -based
log device in this search sequence.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" ;
.[
svr42cr
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
documentation.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.[
osfdoc
.]
.[
soldoc
.]
.[
uw7doc
.]
.[
uxpdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B strace
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr42cr
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
