'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strerr.8.man,v 0.9.2.18 2006/04/05 09:44:41 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:41 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strerr.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.18  2006/04/05 09:44:41  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strutil.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strutil.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRERR 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strerr
\- receives error log messages from the \fISTREAMS\fR \fBlog\fR(4) driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.hy 0
.HP \w'strerr\ 'u
\fBstrerr\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
[\fB-nqDv\fR]
[{\fB-a\fR|\fB--admin\fR[=]}\fImailuid\fR]
[{\fB-d\fR|\fB--directory\fR[=]}\fIdirectory\fR]
[{\fB-p\fR|\fB--pidfile\fR[=]}[\fIpidfile\fR]]
[{\fB-l\fR|\fB--logdev\fR[=]}[\fIlogdevice\fR]]
[{\fB-D\fR|\fB--debug\fR[=]}[\fIlevel\fR]]
[{\fB-v\fR|\fB--verbose\fR[=]}[\fIlevel\fR]]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBstrerr\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBstrerr\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBstrerr\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B strerr
daemon receives error log messages from the
.I STREAMS
log driver
.RB ( log (4))
and writes these messages to standard output.
When run as a daemon,
.B strerr
appends these messages to a log file.
The error log files produced
reside in the directory
.BR /var/adm/streams " or " /var/log/streams ,
or a user-specified directory,
and are named
.BI error. mm-dd\fR,
where
.I mm
is the month and
.I dd
is the day of the messages contained in each log file.
.PP
By default,
.B strlogd
logs all
.I STREAMS
error messages from all drivers and modules.
.PP
Messages that appear in the error log are intended to report exceptional
conditions that require the attention of the person who administers your
system.  Those messages indicating the total failure of a
.I STREAMS
driver or module should have the
.B F
flag set.  Those messages requiring the immediate attention of the
administrator should have the
.B N
flag set, which causes the console logger to send the message to that person by
way of the
.BR mail (1)
command.  The priority level usually has no meaning in the error log, but does
have meaning if the message is also sent to the tracer process.
.PP
Once initiated, the
.B strerr
daemon continues to execute until terminated by the user.  Usually, the
.B strerr
daemon is executed asynchronously.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--admin\fR \fImailuid\fR
Specifies the mail user or alias to which to send all mail messages.  Mail is
sent to
.RB \(lq root \(rq
by default.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--directory\fR \fIdirectory\fR
Specifies a directory to contain the messages.  Default is to search for
.RB \(lq /var/adm/streams \(rq
and then
.RB \(lq /var/log/streams .\(rq
.TP
\fB-n\fR, \fB--nodaemon\fR
Do not daemonize, run in the foreground, print output to
.I stdout
and error logs to
.IR stderr .
This option is most usefull for debugging
.BR strerr .
.TP
\fB-b\fR, \fB--basename\fR \fIbasename\fR
Specify the log file basename.  Default is
.RB \(lq error \(rq .
.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB--outfile\fR \fIoutfile\fR
Specifiy the log file output name.
When run as a daemon, the default is
.RI \(lq basename . mm-dd \(rq,
where
.I mm-dd
is the current month and day of month.
When run in the foreground, the default is ignored and all output is to
.IR stdout .
When specified, standard output is redirected to the specified file regardless of whether
.B strerr
is being run in the foreground or as a daemon.
.TP
\fB-e\fR, \fB--errfile\fR \fIerrfile\fR
Specify the error file output name.
When run as a daemon, the default is
.RI \(lq /dev/null \(rq
and all errors are logged to
.BR syslogd (8).
When run in the foreground, the default is ignored and all errors are logged to
.IR stderr .
When specified, standard error is redirected to the specified file regardless of whether
.B strerr
is being run in the foreground or as a daemon.
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--pidfile\fR \fIpidfile\fR
Specify the pid file output name.  Default is
.RB \(lq /var/run/strerr.pid .\(rq
When run in the foreground, the default is ignored.
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--logdev\fR \fIlogdevice\fR
Specifies the log device.  Default is to search
.RB \(lq /dev/streams/strlog ,\(rq
.RB \(lq /dev/streams/log ,\(rq
.RB \(lq /dev/strlog \(rq
and
.RB \(lq /dev/log .\(rq
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Suppresses normal output.
This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 0 .
.TP
\fB-D\fR, \fB--debug\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increase or specify the debug output
.IR level .
When a debug
.I level
has been specified,
.B strerr
will log to
.IR stdout ,
prints debug messages to
.IR stderr ,
and will not place itself in the background.
This option may be repeated.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increase or specify the verbosity
.I level
of the output.  This option may be repeated.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B strerr
displays usage information on
.I stdout
and exits.
No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no actions are taken.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B strerr
displays version information on
.I stdout
and exits.
No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no actions are taken.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered,
.B strerr
displays copying and copyright information on
.I stdout
and exits.
No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no actions are taken.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.B strerr
takes no non-option arguments.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
.I STREAMS
error log messages have the following format:
.HP
.RB < seq "> <" time "> <" ticks "> <" flags "> <" mid "> <" sid "> <" text >
.PP
Components are interpreted as follows:
.TP \w'<flags>\(em'u
.RB < seq >
Error sequence number.
.PD 0
.TP
.RB < time >
Time the message was sent expressed in hh:mm:ss.
.TP
.RB < ticks >
Time the message was sent expressed in machine ticks since last boot.
.TP
.RB < flags >
Any combination of the following three message indicators:
.RS
.IP \fBT\fP 3
The message has also sent to a tracing process.
.IP \fBF\fP
The message signalled a fatal error.
.IP \fBN\fP
The message has also been mailed to the system administrator.
.RE
.TP
.RB < mid >
Module identification number of the error message source.
.TP
.RB < sid >
Sub-identification number of the error message source.
.TP
.RB < text >
Formatted text of the error message.
.PD
.\"On multiprocessor systems,
.\".RB < text >
.\"is composed of two parts:
.\".RS
.\".IP \(bu
.\"the number of processors where the owner of the message has sent it.
.\".IP \(bu
.\"the formatted text itself.
.\".RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero
.RB ( 0 )
indicates that the command was successful; one
.RB ( 1 )
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two
.RB ( 2 )
indicates that the option or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH SIGNALS
.PP
.B strerr
catches the
.B SIGHUP
signal
.RB "(see " signal (7)).
.TP
.B SIGHUP
When the
.B SIGHUP
signal is caught,
.B strerr
will close the current log file and open a new (or reopen the existing) log
file.  This is for use with
.BR logrotate (8).
.TP
.B SIGTERM
When the
.B SIGTERM
signal is caught,
.B strerr
flushes and closes all of its log files and then exits.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Only one
.B strerr
daemon or process at a time is permitted to open the
.I STREAMS
log driver as an error logger.
If a module or driver is generating a large number of error
messages, running the error logger causes a degradation in
.I STREAMS
performance.  If a large number of messages are generated in a short time, the
log driver may not be able to deliver some of the messages.  This situation is
indicated by gaps in the sequence numbering of the messages in the log files.
.PP
When run in the foreground,
.B strerr
runs until terminated by the caller.
.PP
Running
.B strerr
can impair
.I STREAMS
performance, particularly for those modules and drivers that are sending the
messages.
Also be aware that
.B strerr
may not be able to handle a large number of messages.  If drivers and modules
return messages to
.B strerr
too quickly, some may be lost.
.PP
Due to performance considerations, only one
.B strerr
command is permitted to open the
.I STREAMS
.B log
driver at a time.
Running the
.B strerr
command has the most impact on the timing of modules and drivers generating
the error messages that are sent to the
.B strerr
process.  If error messages are generated faster than the
.B strerr
process can handle them, some of the messages will be lost.  This last case
can be determined by examining the sequence numbers on the error messages
output.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/streams/strlog ", " /dev/streams/log ", " /dev/strlog " or " /dev/log
the
.I STREAMS
logging device.
See
.BR strlog (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/strerr
contains the
.B strerr
command.
.TP
.BR /var/log/streams " or " /var/adm/streams
directory containing the error log files.
.TP
.BI /var/log/streams/error. "mm-dd \fR or " /var/adm/streams/error. mm-dd
error log file.
.TP
.BR /etc/init.d/strerr " or " /etc/strerr.sh
an SysV or Debian init script for starting the error logger.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR log (4),
.BR strlog (4),
.BR strlog (9),
.BR strlog (1),
.BR strace (8),
.BR strclean (8),
.BR syslogd (8),
.BR syslog (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B strerr
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B strerr
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42cr
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
such as
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Options
.BR -n ", " -D ", " -b ", " -o ", " -e ", " -p " and " -l ,
and all long options, are specific to this
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B strerr
and should not be used by portable applications.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the
.BR -q ", " -D ", " -v ", " -h ", " -V " or " -C
options.
They should not be used by portable applications.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
do not document the
.BR -a " or " -d
options;
.IR HP-UX \(rg
and
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
do.
.IP \(em
All other implementations document the log file directory as
.B /var/adm/streams
instead of
.BR /var/log/streams .
.B /var/log/streams
is used under
.B Linux
for compatibility with the
.BR "Linux File Standard" .
For compatibility,
.B strerr
first checks if the directory
.B /var/adm/streams
exists, and then creates
.B /var/log/streams
if necessary, unless a directory is specified with the
.B -d
option.
.IP \(em
Under
.IR "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42cr
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
the
.I STREAMS
log device is called
.B /dev/log
rather than
.BR /dev/strlog .
.B Linux
already has a
.RB non- STREAMS
based log mechanism (BSD-style) logging device named
.BR /dev/log .
.IP \(em
Under
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfdoc
.]
the
.I STREAMS
log device is called
.B /dev/streams/log
instead of
.BR /dev/strlog .
.IP \(em
For compatibility with these operating environments,
.B strerr
attempts to open
.BR /dev/streams/strlog ", " /dev/streams/log ", " /dev/strlog " and then " /dev/log
if not specified with the
.B -l
option.
The call to
.B strerr
will fail if there is no
.IR STREAMS -based
log device in this search sequence, or specified with the
.B -l
option.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" ;
.[
svr42cr
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
documentation.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.[
osfdoc
.]
.[
soldoc
.]
.[
suxdoc
.]
.[
uw7doc
.]
.[
uxpdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B strerr
first appear in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
