'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strload.8.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/03/02 10:58:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/02 10:58:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH STRLOAD 8 "$Date: 2004/03/02 10:58:15 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strload
\- loads the \fISTREAMS\fR subsystem
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBstrload \fR[\fB-u\fR|\fB-q\fR|[\fB-l\fR]] [\fB-f \fIfile\fR] [\fB-d \fIlist\fR] [\fB-m \fI list\fR]\fP
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
drivers and modules are dynamically loaded and unloaded.  To support this
function, each driver and module must have a configuration routine that
performs the necessary initialization and setup operations.
.PP
For compatibility with
.BR AIX \(rg " PSE ,
.[
aixcpc
.]
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
provides the
.B strload
command to load
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.  After loading the driver or module, the
.B strload
command calls the driver or module entry point using the
.B SYS_CFGDD
and
.B SYS_CFGMOD
operations in
.BR sysconfig (9).
.PP
Each
.I STREAMS
driver or module must eventually call the
.BR str_install (9)
utility to link into
.IR STREAMS .
.PP
Commonly used drivers or modules can be placed in a configuration file, which
controls the normal setup and tear-down of
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
The configuration file allows more flexibility when loading drivers or modules
by providing user-specified nodes and arguments.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
.RB [ -l ]
Loads the referenced drivers and modules.  (This is the default if the
.B -q
and
.B -u
flags are not specified.)
If no configuration file, drivers or modules are listed in the command options, only the
.I STREAMS
executive is loaded;
.TP
.BI -u ", " --unload
Unloads the referenced drivers and modules.
If no configuration file, drivers or modules are listed in the command options, the entire
.I STREAMS
executive is unloaded;
.TP
.BI -q ", " --query
Queries the referenced drivers and modules.
If no configuration file, drivers or modules are listed in the command options, only the
.I STREAMS
executive is queried;
.TP
.BI -f ", " --file " file"
Specifies the file to use as the configuration file.
If
.B -f
is not specified, the default filename is
.BR /etc/sysconfig/streams/streams.conf .
.TP
.BI -d ", " --drivers " list"
Specifies a list of driver names to load or unload.
.I list
is a comma separated list of driver names.
.TP
.BI -m ", " --modules " list"
Specifies a list of module names to load or unload.
.I list
is a comma separated list of module names.
.PP
Without any options, by default
.B strload
loads the \fISTREAMS\fR executive and takes its configuration from the file
.BR /etc/sysconfig/streams/streams.conf .
Only one of
.BR -l ", " -q " and " -u
are permitted.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/strload
contains the
.B strload
command.
.TP
.B /etc/sysconfig/streams/streams.conf
contains the default configuration file.
.TP
.BI /lib/modules/ UTS_RELEASE /kernel/drivers/streams/*.o
contains
.I STREAMS
driver and module loadable kernel modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR modprobe (8),
.BR insmod (8),
.BR rmmod (8),
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
