'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: bind.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/03/07 22:49:04 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/07 22:49:04 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH BIND 3 "$Date: 2004/03/07 22:49:04 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS Sockets Library"
.SH NAME
.B bind
\- bind a name to a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.HP
.BI "int bind(int " socket ", const struct sockaddr *" address ", socklen_t " address_len );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR bind ()
function assigns an address to an unnamed socket.  Sockets
created with the
.BR socket (3)
function are initially unnamed; they are
identified only by their address family.
.PP
The function takes the following arguments:
.TP 12
.I socket
Specifies the file descriptor of the socket to be bound.
.TP 12
.I address
Points to a sockaddr structure containing the address to be bound to the
socket.  The length and format of the address depend on the address family
of the socket.
.TP 12
.I address_len
Specifies the length of the sockaddr structure pointed to by the address
argument.
.PP
The socket in use may require the process to have appropriate privileges
to use the
.BR bind ()
function.
.SH NOTES
.PP
An application program can retrieve the assigned socket name with the
.BR getsockname (3)
function.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
This system call is implemented as a
.B SIOCSOCKSYS
IOCTL.  See
.BR socksys (4)
for more information.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.BR bind ()
returns 0.  Otherwise, -1 is returned
and
.IR errno (3)
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The
.BR bind ()
function will fail if:
.TP 12
.RB [ EADDRINUSE ]
The specified address is already in use.
.TP 12
.RB [ EADDRNOTAVAIL ]
The specified address is not available from the local machine.
.TP 12
.RB [ EAFNOSUPPORT ]
The specified address is not a valid address for the address family of the
specified socket.
.TP 12
.RB [ EBADF ]
The socket argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP 12
.RB [ EFAULT ]
The address argument can not be accessed.
.TP 12
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The socket is already bound to an address, and the protocol does not
support binding to a new address; or the socket has been shut down.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENOTSOCK ]
The socket argument does not refer to a socket.
.TP 12
.RB [ EOPNOTSUPP ]
The socket type of the specified socket does not support binding to an
address.
.PP
If the address family of the socket is
.BR AF_UNIX ,
then
.BR bind ()
will fail if:
.TP 12
.RB [ EACCES ]
A component of the path prefix denies search permission, or the requested name
requires writing in a directory with a mode that denies write permission.
.TP 12
.RB [ EDESTADDRREQ "] or [" EISDIR ]
The address argument is a null pointer.
.TP 12
.RB [ EIO ]
An I/O error occurred.
.TP 12
.RB [ ELOOP ]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname in
address.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENAMETOOLONG ]
A component of a pathname exceeded
.RI { NAME_MAX }
characters, or an entire
pathname exceeded
.RI { PATH_MAX }
characters.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENOENT ]
A component of the pathname does not name an existing file or the pathname
is an empty string.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENOTDIR ]
A component of the path prefix of the pathname in address is not a
directory.
.TP 12
.RB [ EROFS ]
The name would reside on a read-only filesystem.
.PP
The
.BR bind ()
function may fail if:
.TP 12
.RB [ EACCES ]
The specified address is protected and the current user does not have
permission to bind to it.
.TP 12
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The address_len argument is not a valid length for the address family.
.TP 12
.RB [ EISCONN ]
The socket is already connected.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENAMETOOLONG ]
Pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an intermediate result whose
length exceeds
.IR { PATH_MAX }.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
Insufficient resources were available to complete the call.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENOSR ]
There were insufficient STREAMS resources for the operation to complete.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR connect (3),
.BR getsockname (3),
.BR listen (3),
.BR socket (3),
.BR <sys/socket.h> (5).
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
The Open Group XNS Issue 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
