'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: connect.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/03/01 02:44:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CONNECT 3 "$Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:05 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS Sockets Library"
.SH NAME
.B connect
\- connect a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.HP
.BI "int connect(int " socket ", const struct sockaddr *" address ", socklen_t " address_len );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR connect ()
function requests a connection to be made on a socket.
The function takes the following arguments:
.TP 12
.I socket
Specifies the file descriptor associated with the socket.
.TP 12
.I address
Points to a
.B sockaddr
structure containing the peer address.  The length and
format of the address depend on the address family of the socket.
.TP 12
.I address_len
Specifies the length of the
.B sockaddr
structure pointed to by the address
argument.
.PP
If the socket has not already been bound to a local address,
.BR connect ()
will bind it to an address which, unless the socket's address family is
.BR AF_UNIX ,
is an unused local address.
.PP
If the initiating socket is not connection-mode, then
.BR connect ()
sets the
socket's peer address, but no connection is made.  For
.B SOCK_DGRAM
sockets,
the peer address identifies where all datagrams are sent on subsequent
.BR send (3)
calls, and limits the remote sender for subsequent
.BR recv (3)
calls.  If address is a null address for the protocol, the socket's peer
address will be reset.
.PP
If the initiating socket is connection-mode, then
.BR connect ()
attempts
to establish a connection to the address specified by the address argument.
.PP
If the connection cannot be established immediately and
.B O_NONBLOCK
is not
set for the file descriptor for the socket,
.BR connect ()
will block for up to
an unspecified timeout interval until the connection is established.  If
the timeout interval expires before the connection is established,
.BR connect ()
will fail and the connection attempt will be aborted.  If
.BR connect ()
is interrupted by a signal that is caught while blocked
waiting to establish a connection,
.BR connect ()
will fail and set
.IR errno (3)
to
.RB [ EINTR ],
but the connection request will not be aborted, and the connection
will be established asynchronously.
.PP
If the connection cannot be established immediately and
.B O_NONBLOCK
is set
for the file descriptor for the socket,
.BR connect ()
will fail and set
.IR errno (3)
to
.RB [ EINPROGRESS ],
but the connection request will not be aborted, and the
connection will be established asynchronously.  Subsequent calls to
.BR connect ()
for the same socket, before the connection is established, will
fail and set
.IR errno (3)
to
.RB [ EALREADY ].
.PP
When the connection has been established asynchronously,
.BR select (2)
and
.BR poll (2)
will indicate that the file descriptor for the
socket is ready for writing.
.PP
The socket in use may require the process to have appropriate privileges
to use the
.BR connect ()
function.
.SH NOTES
.PP
If
.BR connect ()
fails, the state of the socket is unspecified.  Portable
applications should close the file descriptor and create a new socket before
attempting to reconnect.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
This system call is implemented as a
.B SIOCSOCKSYS
IOCTL.  See
.BR socksys (4)
for more information.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.BR connect ()
returns 0.  Otherwise, -1 is returned
and
.IR errno (3)
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The
.BR connect ()
function will fail if:
.TP 12
.RB [ EADDRNOTAVAIL ]
The specified address is not available from the local machine.
.TP 12
.RB [ EAFNOSUPPORT ]
The specified address is not a valid address for the address family of the
specified socket.
.TP 12
.RB [ EALREADY ]
A connection request is already in progress for the specified socket.
.TP 12
.RB [ EBADF ]
The socket argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP 12
.RB [ ECONNREFUSED ]
The target address was not listening for connections or refused the connection
request.
.TP 12
.RB [ EFAULT ]
The address parameter can not be accessed.
.TP 12
.RB [ EINPROGRESS ]
.B O_NONBLOCK
is set for the file descriptor for the socket and the
connection cannot be immediately established; the connection will be
established asynchronously.
.TP 12
.RB [ EINTR ]
The attempt to establish a connection was interrupted by delivery of
a signal that was caught; the connection will be established asynchronously.
.TP 12
.RB [ EISCONN ]
The specified socket is connection-mode and is already connected.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENETUNREACH ]
No route to the network is present.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENOTSOCK ]
The socket argument does not refer to a socket.
.TP 12
.RB [ EPROTOTYPE ]
The specified address has a different type than the socket bound to the
specified peer address.
.TP 12
.RB [ ETIMEDOUT ]
The attempt to connect timed out before a connection was made.
.PP
If the address family of the socket is
.BR AF_UNIX ,
then
.BR connect ()
will fail if:
.TP 12
.RB [ EIO ]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.TP 12
.RB [ ELOOP ]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname in
address.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENAMETOOLONG ]
A component of a pathname exceeded {NAME_MAX} characters, or an entire
pathname exceeded {PATH_MAX} characters.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENOENT ]
A component of the pathname does not name an existing file or the pathname
is an empty string.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENOTDIR ]
A component of the path prefix of the pathname in address is not a
directory.
.PP
The
.BR connect ()
function may fail if:
.TP 12
.RB [ EACCES ]
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix; or write
access to the named socket is denied.
.TP 12
.RB [ EADDRINUSE ]
Attempt to establish a connection that uses addresses that are already in
use.
.TP 12
.RB [ ECONNRESET ]
Remote host reset the connection request.
.TP 12
.RB [ EHOSTUNREACH ]
The destination host cannot be reached (probably because the host is down
or a remote router cannot reach it).
.TP 12
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The address_len argument is not a valid length for the address family; or
invalid address family in
.B sockaddr
structure.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENAMETOOLONG ]
Pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an intermediate result whose
length exceeds {PATH_MAX}.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENETDOWN ]
The local interface used to reach the destination is down.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
No buffer space is available.
.TP 12
.RB [ ENOSR ]
There were insufficient STREAMS resources available to complete the operation.
.TP 12
.RB [ EOPNOTSUPP ]
The socket is listening and can not be connected.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR accept (3),
.BR bind (3),
.BR close (2),
.BR getsockname (3),
.BR poll (2),
.BR select (2),
.BR send (3),
.BR shutdown (3),
.BR socket (3),
<sys/socket.h>.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
The Open Group XNS Issue 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
