'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: fattach.3.man,v 0.9.2.4 2004/05/14 07:59:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH FATTACH 3 "$Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:50 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS"
.SH NAME
.B fattach
\- attach a \fISTREAMS\fR open file to a path name in the file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B "#include <stropts.h> "
.HP
.BI "int fattach( int " filedes ", const char *" path " ); "
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR fattach "() "
attaches an open
.I STREAMS
file to a path name in the file system.
While the file is attached to the path name, opens (see
.BR open "(2)) "
of the path name will instead open the
.I STREAMS
file.
.sp
The process calling
.BR fattach "() "
may immediately close the
.I STREAMS
file thereafter; the
.BR fattach "() "
operation effectively causes the file to remain open until
it is explicitly detached via
.BR fdetach "(3).  "
.sp
Note that a single
.I STREAMS
file may be attached to several path names (via several calls to
.BR fattach "), "
but a path name may only be attached to a single
.I STREAMS
file.
.sp
The process does not affect pre-existing opens either of the underlying path
name or the
.I STREAMS
file, and subsequent operations on the path name (until a corresponding
.BR fdetach "(3)) "
apply only to the attached
.I STREAMS
file.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.BR fattach "() "
returns 0.  Upon failure,
.BR fattach "() "
return -1, and
.BR errno "(3) "
is set to indicate the error causing the failure (see below).
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR fattach "() "
may fail at least with the following error indications:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.B "[EBADF]"
The
.I filedes
argument is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.B "[EINVAL]"
The
.I filedes
argument does not refer to a valid
.I STREAMS
file.
.TP
.B "[EISDIR]"
The
.I path
argument refers to a directory.
.TP
.B "[EBUSY]"
The
.I path
argument is currently a mount point, or already has a
.I STREAMS
file attached to it.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
.PP
Both conceptually and mechanically,
.BR fattach "() "
is similar to the more typical
.I mounting
of a file system on a path name representing a directory (see
.BR mount "(8)).  "
Both cause the process of searching for the path name to
use an altenative file system node when the point of mounting or
attachment is reached; i.e., the attached file or mounted file system
covers and hides the underlying path name.
They differ in that mounting applies to directory names and attaches
block devices that contain whole file systems;
.BR fattach "() "
is intended to apply to non-directory names and attaches only a single
.I STREAMS
file.
.sp
.BR fattach "() "
is intended to allow client processes a means to communicate with
a server process via a
.I "well-known"
path name.
E.g., a server process might open a
.I STREAMS
.I pipe
and attach one end to an existing path name, thus providing a
means for clients to communicate with the server.
When the server is not running, the path name identifies a
.RB "non-" STREAMS
file name, but when the server is running, it identifies the end of the
pipe to be used to communicate with the server.  A client process can
distinguish these two states by using the
.BR isastream "(3) "
function.
.sp
Moreover, since an attached
.I STREAMS
file is effectively open, a
.I STREAMS
file which is only attached but not otherwise open may be the target
of file descriptor passing via the
.B I_SENDFD
.I ioctl
and
.B M_PASSFP
messages, to be received once opened via the
.B I_RECVFD
.IR ioctl ". "
(Note that this means of file descriptor passing is only supported for
.I STREAMS
.B pipes
and
.BR fifos ".) "
E.g., a
.B pipe
may be opened, a path attached to one end, and a file descriptor passed
to that end, after which the pipe end receiving the file descriptor may
be closed.
Subsequent opens of that end will be able to receive the passed file
descriptor(s) in the usual manner and detach the attached path
thereafter.
This eases the synchronization requirements between servers and clients
intending to use a
.B pipe
only for passing file descriptors.
.sp
See
.BR connld "(9) "
for related applications of
.BR fattach "(). "
.sp
Under Linux,
.BR fattach "() "
also coincidentally provides a means to dynamically substitute a
.I STREAMS
file
for a kernel
.I fifo
(see
.BR fifo "(4) "
and
.BR pipe "(3)) "
without having to change existing applications (see also
.BR fattach (8)).  "
.sp
Applications wishing to use the version of the
.BR fattach "() "
function described herein must link with the
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
library, which
provides it.  The
Linux/GNU C library otherwise provides a stub supporting calls to
.B fattach
which only generates an error indicating that it is not implemented.
.SH WARNINGS
.PP
The operation of
.BR fattach "() "
depends on how the underlying operating system implements the mechanism
of
.IR mounting .
In Linux kernels since 2.1.x, mounting does not happen at
.IR inodes ,
but at a higher level called the
.IR dcache .
Because of this implementation, attaching to a path name which has hard
links in the underlying file system does not involve other path names
which are hard links to the given path name.  I.e., the
.I STREAMS
file is only attached to the given path names, and not to any others
which would otherwise be treated as
.I aliases
for that path name.
.sp
At the same time, it should again be noted that a
.I STREAMS
file may be attached to more than one path, including to such aliases,
if their path names are known.
The fact that these names are not easy to determine is the predominant
reason that they are not attached to automatically.
.sp
It should be noted that in this implementation, an attachment is
undone automatically if the attached
.I STREAMS
file receives a
.I hangup
indication from its driver (or from its
.IR peer ,
if it is a pipe end) without received file descriptors pending
(i.e., without
.B M_PASSFP
messages queued at its stream head),
i.e., if the effect of the stream head receiving an
.B M_HANGUP
message occurs.
In this state, a
.I STREAMS
file is unusable for normal message traffic, and
this automatic detachment ensures that an otherwise inactive stream
will be closed and its resources released.
In the case of a
.BR pipe ", "
an end is given a
.I hangup
indication if its peer is closed completely and dismantled.
If
.B M_PASSFP
messages are queued at the remaining end (which is thus in this
.I hangup
state), it may still be opened (if already open or if only attached)
in order to receive these messages via the
.B I_RECVFD
.IR ioctl ". "
.sp
The behavior of automatically detaching a
.I STREAMS
file which has received a
.I hangup
indication is not common to other
.ISTREAMS
implementations and should be considered a non-standard extension.
.sp
It should also be noted that this implementation does not change
the access permissions (see
.BR chmod "(2) "
and
.BR fchmod "(2)) "
of the attached
.I STREAMS
file.  If such behavior is desired, the path's mode should be determined
.I before
attaching, and applied to the
.I STREAMS
file (via
.BR chmod "(2) "
or the equivalent). (See
.BR fattach "(8) "
for examples.)  Note that doing so alters the
.I STREAMS
file permanently; i.e., such changes will not be undone by an effective
subsequent
.BR fdetach "(3)."
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
.PP
In the current implementation,
.BR fattach "() "
will not attach to a directory name, to avoid conflict with the normal
process of mounting file systems on directory mount points.  Though
we foresee no need to allow attachment to directory path names at
the time of this writing, this is subject to change in the future.
.sp
.BR fattach "() "
is currently implemented as an IOCTL operation on the given file.
Should
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
ever become part of the Linux kernel, it may become a
system call; a system call implementation is in fact already
included within
.B LiS\
.
.[
LiS
.]
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR chmod "(2), "
.BR connld "(9), "
.BR errno "(3), "
.BR fattach "(8), "
.BR fchmod "(2), "
.BR fdetach "(3), "
.BR fdetach "(8), "
.BR fifo "(4), "
.BR mount "(8), "
.BR open "(2), "
.BR pipe "(2), "
.BR STREAMS "(4) "
.SH HISTORY
.PP
UNIX\(rg\ System V Release 4 (SVR4)
.[
svr4
.]
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
John Boyd, protologos LLC.
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T3
