'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: getsockopt.3.man,v 0.9.2.5 2004/05/14 07:59:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH GETSOCKOPT 3 "$Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:50 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS Sockets Library"
.SH NAME
.B getsockopt
\- get the socket options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.HP
.BI "int getsockopt(int " socket ", int " level ", int " option_name ", void *" option_value ", socklen_t *" option_len );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR getsockopt ()
function retrieves the value for the option
specified by the
.I option_name
argument for the socket specified by
the
.I socket
argument.  If the size of the option value is greater
than
.IR option_len ,
the value stored in the object pointed to by the
.I option_value
argument will be silently truncated.  Otherwise, the
object pointed to by the
.I option_len
argument will be modified to
indicate the actual length of the value.
.PP
The
.I level
argument specifies the protocol level at which the option
resides.  To retrieve options at the socket level, specify the
.I level
argument as
.BR SOL_SOCKET .
To retrieve options at other levels, supply
the appropriate
.I level
identifier for the protocol controlling the
option.  For example, to indicate that an option will be interpreted
by the TCP (Transmission Control Protocol), set
.I level
to
.B IPPROTO_TCP
as defined in the <netinet/in.h> header.
.PP
The socket in use may require the process to have appropriate
privileges to use the
.BR getsockopt ()
function.
.PP
The
.I option_name
argument specifies a single option to be retrieved.
It can be one of the following values defined in <sys/socket.h>:
.TP
.B SO_DEBUG
Reports whether debugging information is being recorded.  This
option stores an
.B int
value.  This is a boolean option.
.TP
.B SO_ACCEPTCONN
Reports whether socket listening is enabled.  This option stores
an
.B int
value.  This is a boolean option.
.TP
.B SO_BROADCAST
Reports whether transmission of broadcast messages is
supported, if this is supported by the protocol.  This option
stores an
.B int
value.  This is a boolean option.
.TP
.B SO_REUSEADDR
Reports whether the rules used in validating addresses supplied
to
.BR bind (3)
should allow reuse of local addresses, if this is
supported by the protocol.  This option stores an
.B int
value.
This is a boolean option.
.TP
.B SO_KEEPALIVE
Reports whether connections are kept active with periodic
transmission of messages, if this is supported by the protocol.
If the connected socket fails to respond to these messages, the
connection is broken and processes writing to that socket are
notified with a
.B SIGPIPE
signal.  This option stores an
.B int
value.
This is a boolean option.
.TP
.B SO_LINGER
Reports whether the socket lingers on
.BR close (2)
if data is
present.  If
.B SO_LINGER
is set, the system blocks the process
during
.BR close (2)
until it can transmit the data or until the
end of the interval indicated by the
.I l_linger
member, whichever
comes first.  If
.B SO_LINGER
is not specified, and
.BR close (2)
is
issued, the system handles the call in a way that allows the
process to continue as quickly as possible.  This option stores
a
.B linger
structure.
.TP
.B SO_OOBINLINE
Reports whether the socket leaves received out-of-band data
(data marked urgent) in line.  This option stores an
.B int
value.
This is a boolean option.
.TP
.B SO_SNDBUF
Reports send buffer size information.  This option stores an
.B int
value.
.TP
.B SO_RCVBUF
Reports receive buffer size information.  This option stores an
.B int
value.
.TP
.B SO_ERROR
Reports information about error status and clears it.  This
option stores an
.B int
value.
.TP
.B SO_TYPE
Reports the socket type.  This option stores an
.B int
value.
.TP
.B SO_DONTROUTE
Reports whether outgoing messages bypass the standard routing
facilities.  The destination must be on a directly-connected
network, and messages are directed to the appropriate network
interface according to the destination address.  The effect, if
any, of this option depends on what protocol is in use.  This
option stores an
.B int
value.  This is a boolean option.
.TP
.B SO_RCVLOWAT
Reports the minimum number of bytes to process for socket input
operations.  The default value for
.B SO_RCVLOWAT
is 1.  If
.TP
.B SO_RCVLOWAT is set to a larger value, blocking receive calls
normally wait until they have received the smaller of the low
water mark value or the requested amount.  (They may return less
than the low water mark if an error occurs, a signal is caught,
or the type of data next in the receive queue is different than
that returned, e.g.  out of band data).  This option stores an
.B int
value.  Note that not all implementations allow this option
to be retrieved.
.TP
.B SO_RCVTIMEO
Reports the timeout value for input operations.  This option
stores a
.B timeval
structure with the number of seconds and
microseconds specifying the limit on how long to wait for an
input operation to complete.  If a receive operation has blocked
for this much time without receiving additional data, it
returns with a partial count or errno set to
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
or
.RB [ EWOULDBLOCK ]
if no data were received.  The default for this
option is zero, which indicates that a receive operation will
not time out.  Note that not all implementations allow this
option to be retrieved.
.TP
.B SO_SNDLOWAT
Reports the minimum number of bytes to process for socket
output operations.  Non-blocking output operations will process
no data if flow control does not allow the smaller of the send
low water mark value or the entire request to be processed.
This option stores an
.B int
value.  Note that not all
implementations allow this option to be retrieved.
.TP
.B SO_SNDTIMEO
Reports the timeout value specifying the amount of time that an
output function blocks because flow control prevents data from
being sent.  If a send operation has blocked for this time, it
returns with a partial count or with errno set to
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
or
.RB [ EWOULDBLOCK ]
if no data were sent.  The default for this option
is zero, which indicates that a send operation will not time
out.  The option stores a
.B timeval
structure.  Note that not all
implementations allow this option to be retrieved.
.PP
For boolean options, a zero value indicates that the option is
disabled and a non-zero value indicates that the option is enabled.
.PP
Options at other protocol levels vary in format and name.
.PP
The socket in use may require the process to have appropriate
privileges to use the
.BR getsockopt ()
function.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
This system call is implemented as a
.B SIOCSOCKSYS
IOCTL.  See
.BR socksys (4)
for more information.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.BR getsockopt ()
returns 0.  Otherwise, -1
is returned and errno is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The
.BR getsockopt ()
function will fail if:
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
The
.I socket
argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ EFAULT ]
The
.I option_value
or
.I option_len
parameter can not be accessed or
written.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The specified option is invalid at the specified socket
.IR level .
.TP
.RB [ ENOPROTOOPT ]
The option is not supported by the protocol.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTSOCK ]
The
.I socket
argument does not refer to a socket.

The
.BR getsockopt ()
function may fail if:
.TP
.RB [ EACCES ]
The calling process does not have the appropriate privileges.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The socket has been shut down.
.TP
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
Insufficient resources are available in the system to complete
the call.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
There were insufficient
.IR STREAMS (4)
resources available for the
operation to complete.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR bind (3),
.BR close (2),
.BR endprotoent (2),
.BR setsockopt (3),
.BR socket (3),
.BR <sys/socket.h> .
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
The Open Group XNS Issue 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
