'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: libstreams.3.man,v 0.9.2.8 2008-04-28 12:53:40 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:40 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: libstreams.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2008-04-28 12:53:40  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/12/18 07:32:37  brian
.\" - lfs device names, autoload clone minors, device numbering, missing manpages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/10/05 12:16:53  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/09/18 01:25:50  brian
.\" - updated manpages and macros
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:43:43  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH LIBSTREAMS 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B libstreams, libLiS, libpLiS
\- \fISTREAMS\fR system call library
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B gcc -lstreams
.PD 0
.HP
.B gcc -lLiS \fR# (deprecated)
.HP
.B gcc -lpLiS \fR# (deprecated)
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
.B libstreams
is the name of the
.I STREAMS
library for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.[
@PACKAGE@
.]
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
also provides two additional libraries for
.I LiS
compatibility,
.[
lis
.]
.BR libLiS " and " libpLiS .
The contents of the
.B libLiS
library is identical to the
.BR libstreams
library.
.B libpLiS
contains the contents of
.BR libLiS " or " libstreams
without the
.BR pipe (2)
system call replacement.
This makes the
.B libpLiS
library suitable as a preload library.  (The \(lqp\(rq stands for preload,
not pipe.)
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
l1c1lsssss.
\fBfattach\fR(3):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
attach a \fISTREAMS\fR open file to a path name in the file system
T}
\fBfdetach\fR(3):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
detach any \fISTREAMS\fR file from a path name in the file system
T}
\fBisastream\fR(3):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
determine whether an open file is a \fISTREAMS\fR device
T}
\fBpipe\fR(3):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
create a \fISTREAMS\fR \fIpipe\fR
T}
\fBs_pipe\fR(3):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
create a \fISTREAMS\fR \fIpipe\fR
T}
\fBfattach\fR(2s):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
name a \fISTREAMS\fR special file
T}
\fBfcntl\fR(2s):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
manipulate file descriptor
T}
\fBgetmsg\fR(2):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
get next message off a stream
T}
\fBgetpmsg\fR(2s):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
get next message off a stream
T}
\fBpipe\fR(2s):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
create a \fISTREAMS\fR \fIpipe\fR
T}
\fBpoll\fR(2s):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
wait for some event on a \fISTREAMS\fP special file
T}
\fBpstrlog\fR(3):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
print a \fISTREAMS\fP log buffer
T}
\fBputmsg\fR(2):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
put a message to a \fISTREAMS\fP character device
T}
\fBputpmsg\fR(2s):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
put a message to a \fISTREAMS\fP character device
T}
\fBread\fR(2s):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
read from a file descriptor
T}
\fBreadv\fR(2s):\-:T{
read a vector
.ad l
.hy 0
T}
\fBstrlog\fR(3):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
write a \fISTREAMS\fP log message to the \fBlog\fR(4) driver
T}
\fBvstrlog\fR(3):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
write a \fISTREAMS\fP log message to the \fBlog\fR(4) driver
T}
\fBwrite\fR(2s):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
write to a file descriptor
T}
\fBwritev\fR(2s):\-:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
write a vector
T}
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.BR libLiS " and " libpLiS
libraries are not intended to be used or linked directly by new user programs.
They are meant for backwards compatibility to older and current
.I LiS
verions.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR fattach (3),
.BR fdetach (3),
.BR isastream (3),
.BR pipe (3),
.BR s_pipe (3),
.BR fattach (2s),
.BR fcntl (2s),
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR getpmsg (2s),
.BR pipe (2s),
.BR poll (2s),
.BR pstrlog (3),
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR putpmsg (2s),
.BR read (2s),
.BR readv (2s),
.BR strlog (3),
.BR vstrlog (3),
.BR write (2s),
.BR writev (2s).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B libstreams
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em '\(em\(em'u
.BR pstrlog (3),
.BR strlog (3)
and
.BR vstrlog (3)
are specific to
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.IP \(em
Most of the system calls are implemented instead as library calls.
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
UNIX\(rg\ System V Release 4.2 (SVR4.2)
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
