'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: netbuf.3,v 0.9.2.1 2004/02/29 19:06:48 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/02/29 19:06:48 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH NETBUF 3 "$Date: 2004/02/29 19:06:48 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS XTI Library"
.SH NAME
.B netbuf
\- the XTI netbuf structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct netbuf {
        unsigned int maxlen;    /* max length           */
        unsigned int len;       /* current length       */
        char *buf;              /* data                 */
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B netbuf
structure is used in many XTI
.[
XTI
.]
.[
XNS
.]
structures referenced in function calls for
passing opqaue arguments.
The
.B netbuf
structure contains the following members:
.TP 12
.I maxlen
When the object of a
.B netbuf
structure is passed to an XTI
.[
XTI
.]
.[
XNS
.]
library call as an input argument only, the
.I maxlen
field is meaningless and is ignored by the call.  Whenever the object of a
.B netbuf
structure is returned from an XTI
.[
XTI
.]
.[
XNS
.]
library call as an output argument, the
.I maxlen
field specifies the length of the buffer pointed to by
.IR buf ,
into which the caller requests that the opaque object be returned.
.TP 12
.I len
When the object of a
.B netbuf
structure is passed to an XTI
.[
XTI
.]
.[
XNS
.]
library call as an output argument only, the
.I len
field is meaningless to the call, but will be completed with the length of the
actual data returned in
.I buf
when
.I maxlen
on call was greater than zero.
Whenever the object of a
.B netbuf
structure is passed to an XTI
.[
XTI
.]
.[
XNS
.]
library call as an input argument, the
.I len
field specifies on call the length of the opaque object present at
.IR buf .
.TP 12
.I buf
A pointer to the buffer area which contains an input argument when
.I len
is greater than zero on call,
and which contains an output argument when
.I maxlen
is greater than zero on call and
.I len
is greater than zero on return.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
When
.I maxlen
is greater than zero and the size of the opaque data to be returned to the
caller is greater than
.IR maxlen ,
the call will fail with error
.BR TBUFOVFLW .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR t_accept (3),
.BR t_addleaf (3),
.BR t_bind (3),
.BR t_connect (3),
.BR t_getprotaddr (3),
.BR t_listen (3),
.BR t_optmgmt (3),
.BR t_rcvconnect (3),
.BR t_rcvdis (3),
.BR t_rcvreldata (3),
.BR t_rcvudata (3),
.BR t_rcvuderr (3),
.BR t_snddis (3),
.BR t_sndreldata (3),
.BR t_sndudata (3),
.BR t_sndvudata (3).
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
The Open Group XNS Issue 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
