'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: pstrlog.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-28 12:53:40 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:40 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: pstrlog.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-28 12:53:40  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/12/18 07:26:39  brian
.\" - added missing manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH PSTRLOG 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B pstrlog
\- print a \fISTREAMS\fR log buffer
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stdio.h>
.br
.B #include <strlog.h>
.HP
.BI "int pstrlog(FILE *" file ", struct strbuf *" ctrl ", struct strbuf *" data );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I file
file stream to which to print the message.
.PD 0
.TP
.I ctrl
control part of the log buffer message.
.TP
.I data
data part of the log buffer message.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR pstrlog ()
prints the error, trace or console log buffer,
with control part
.I ctrl
and data part
.IR data ,
obtained from the
.BR log (4)
driver directly with a call to
.BR getmsg (2)
to the file stream,
.IR file .
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR pstrlog ()
is intended for use by the
.BR strerr (1)
logging daemon, or application programs reading from the
.BR log (4)
driver in a manner similar to the
.BR strerr (1)
or
.BR strace (1)
loggers.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Upon success,
.BR pstrlog ()
returns the number of characters printed (not including the trailing '\0' used
to end string output).
Upon failure, minus one (-1) and an appropriate error number in
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR pstrlog ()
fails, it returns minus one (-1) and an apporpriate error number in
.IR errno (3)
as follows:
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
the message contained in
.I ctrl
or
.I data
is invalid or of an improper format.
.PP
In general, any error returned by
.BR fprintf (3)
can be returned by
.BR pstrlog ().
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/streams/strlog ", " /dev/streams/log ", " /dev/strlog " or " /dev/log
the
.I STREAMS
logging device.  See
.BR strlog (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR log (4),
.BR strlog (1),
.BR strlog (3),
.BR strlog (4),
.BR strlog (9),
.BR vstrlog (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR pstrlog ()
has no known bugs.
.PP
Validated behavior is provided by the
.BR test-log (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR pstrlog ()
is compatibile with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
and systems based on 
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR pstrlog ()
is specific to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
Most implementations of the
.BR log (4)
driver do not provide a mechanism for printing a log buffer.
.BR pstrlog ()
is provided to remove the dependency on the specific format of the log buffer
from a
.BR log (4)
driver application program.
.\".IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR pstrlog ()
is new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
