'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sendto.3.man,v 0.9.2.5 2004/05/14 07:59:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH SENDTO 3 "$Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:50 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS Sockets Library"
.SH NAME
.B sendto
\- send a message on a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.HP
.BI "ssize_t sendto(int " socket ", const void *" message ", size_t " length ", int " flags ", const struct sockaddr *" dest_addr ", socklen_t " dest_len );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR sendto ()
function sends a message through a connection-mode or
connectionless-mode socket.  If the socket is connectionless-mode,
the message will be sent to the address specified by
.IR dest_addr .
If
the socket is connection-mode,
.I dest_addr
is ignored.
.PP
The function takes the following arguments:
.TP
.I socket
Specifies the socket file descriptor.
.TP
.I message
Points to a buffer containing the message to be sent.
.TP
.I length
Specifies the size of the message in bytes.
.TP
.I flags
Specifies the type of message transmission.  Values of this
argument are formed by logically OR'ing zero or more of the
following flags:
.RS
.TP
.B MSG_EOR
Terminates a record (if supported by the protocol)
.TP
.B MSG_OOB
Sends out-of-band data on sockets that support out-of-band
data.  The significance and semantics of out-of-band data
are protocol-specific.
.RE
.TP
.I dest_addr
Points to a
.B sockaddr
structure containing the destination
address.  The length and format of the address depend on the
address family of the socket.
.TP
.I dest_len
Specifies the length of the
.B sockaddr
structure pointed to by
the
.I dest_addr
argument.
.PP
If the socket protocol supports broadcast and the specified address
is a broadcast address for the socket protocol,
.BR sendto ()
will fail
if the
.B SO_BROADCAST
option is not set for the socket.
.PP
The
.I dest_addr
argument specifies the address of the target.  The
length argument specifies the length of the message.
.PP
Successful completion of a call to
.BR sendto ()
does not guarantee
delivery of the message.  A return value of -1 indicates only
locally-detected errors.
.PP
If space is not available at the sending socket to hold the message
to be transmitted and the socket file descriptor does not have
.B O_NONBLOCK
set,
.BR sendto ()
blocks until space is available.  If space
is not available at the sending socket to hold the message to be
transmitted and the socket file descriptor does have
.B O_NONBLOCK
set,
.BR sendto ()
will fail.
.PP
The socket in use may require the process to have appropriate
privileges to use the
.BR sendto ()
function.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The
.BR select (2)
and
.BR poll (2)
functions can be used to determine
when it is possible to send more data.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
This system call is implemented as a
.B SIOCSOCKSYS
IOCTL.  See
.BR socksys (4)
for more information.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.BR sendto ()
returns the number of bytes
sent.  Otherwise, -1 is returned and errno is set to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The
.BR sendto ()
function will fail if:
.TP
.RB [ EAFNOSUPPORT ]
Addresses in the specified address family cannot be used with
this socket.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN "] or [" EWOULDBLOCK ]
The socket's file descriptor is marked
.B O_NONBLOCK
and the
requested operation would block.
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
The
.I socket
argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ ECONNRESET ]
A connection was forcibly closed by a peer.
.TP
.RB [ EFAULT ]
The
.I message
or
.I dest_addr
parameter can not be accessed.
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
A signal interrupted
.BR sendto ()
before any data was transmitted.
.TP
.RB [ EMSGSIZE ]
The message is too large to be sent all at once, as the socket
requires.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTCONN ]
The socket is connection-mode but is not connected.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTSOCK ]
The
.I socket
argument does not refer to a socket.
.TP
.RB [ EOPNOTSUPP ]
The
.I socket
argument is associated with a socket that does not
support one or more of the values set in
.IR flags .
.TP
.RB [ EPIPE ]
The socket is shut down for writing, or the socket is
connection-mode and is no longer connected.  In the latter case,
and if the socket is of type
.BR SOCK_STREAM ,
the
.B SIGPIPE
signal is
generated to the calling process.
.PP
If the address family of the socket is
.BR AF_UNIX ,
then
.BR sendto ()
will
fail if:
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file
system.
.TP
.RB [ ELOOP ]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the
pathname in the socket address.
.TP
.RB [ ENAMETOOLONG ]
A component of a pathname exceeded
.RI { NAME_MAX }
characters, or an
entire pathname exceeded
.RI { PATH_MAX }
characters.
.TP
.RB [ ENOENT ]
A component of the pathname does not name an existing file or
the pathname is an empty string.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTDIR ]
A component of the path prefix of the pathname in the socket
address is not a directory.
.PP
The
.BR sendto ()
function may fail if:
.TP
.RB [ EACCES ]
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix;
or write access to the named socket is denied.
.TP
.RB [ EDESTADDRREQ ]
The socket is not connection-mode and does not have its peer
address set, and no destination address was specified.
.TP
.RB [ EHOSTUNREACH ]
The destination host cannot be reached (probably because the
host is down or a remote router cannot reach it).
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The
.I dest_len
argument is not a valid length for the address
family.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file
system.
.TP
.RB [ EISCONN ]
A destination address was specified and the socket is already
connected.  This error may or may not be returned for connection
mode sockets.
.TP
.RB [ ENETDOWN ]
The local interface used to reach the destination is down.
.TP
.RB [ ENETUNREACH ]
No route to the network is present.
.TP
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform
the operation.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
Insufficient memory was available to fulfill the request.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
There were insufficient
.IR STREAMS (4)
resources available for the
operation to complete.
.PP
If the address family of the socket is
.BR AF_UNIX ,
then
.BR sendto ()
may
fail if:
.TP
.RB [ ENAMETOOLONG ]
Pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an intermediate
result whose length exceeds
.RI { PATH_MAX }.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR getsockopt (3),
.BR poll (2),
.BR recv (3),
.BR recvfrom (3),
.BR recvmsg (3),
.BR select (2),
.BR send (3),
.BR sendmsg (3),
.BR setsockopt (3),
.BR shutdown (3),
.BR socket (3),
.BR <sys/socket.h> (5).
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
The Open Group XNS Issue 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
