'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SNMP_LOGGING 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B init_snmp_logging, snmp_get_do_logging, snmp_disable_syslog, snmp_disable_filelog, snmp_disable_stderrlog, snmp_disable_calllog, snmp_disable_log, snmp_enable_syslog, snmp_enable_filelog, snmp_enable_stderrlog, snmp_enable_callog, snmp_log, snmp_vlog, snmp_log_perror
\- SNMP logging API functions
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP
\fBvoid\fP init_snmp_logging(\fBvoid\fP);
.HP
\fBint\fP snmp_get_do_logging(\fBvoid\fP);
.HP
\fBvoid\fP snmp_disable_syslog(\fBvoid\fP);
.PD 0
.HP
\fBvoid\fP snmp_disable_filelog(\fBvoid\fP);
.HP
\fBvoid\fP snmp_disable_stderrlog(\fBvoid\fP);
.HP
\fBvoid\fP snmp_disable_calllog(\fBvoid\fP);
.HP
\fBvoid\fP snmp_disable_log(\fBvoid\fP);
.PD
.HP
\fBvoid\fP snmp_enable_syslog(\fBvoid\fP);
.PD 0
.HP
\fBvoid\fP snmp_enable_filelog(\fBconst char *\fP\fIlogfilename\fP, \fBint\fP \fIdont_zero_log\fP);
.HP
\fBvoid\fP snmp_enable_stderrlog(\fBvoid\fP);
.HP
\fBvoid\fP snmp_enable_calllog(\fBvoid\fP);
.PD
.HP
\fBint\fP snmp_log(\fBint\fP \fIpriority\fP, \fBconst char *\fP\fIformat\fP, ...);
.PD 0
.HP
\fBint\fP snmp_vlog(\fBint\fP \fIpriority\fP, \fBconst char *\fP\fIformat\fP, \fBva_list\fP \fIap\fP);
.PD
.HP
\fBvoid\fP snmp_log_perror(\fBconst char *\fP\fIs\fP);
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I logfilename
Specifies the full path to a log file.
.TP
.I dont_zero_log
When true (non-zero), specifies that the log file should not be truncated
before appending logs.  When false (0), specifies that the log file should be
truncated before appending logs.
.TP
.I priority
Specifies the priority of the log message.  The priority corresponds to the
.BR syslog (3)
.I level
argument and may be one of:
.BR LOG_EMERG ,
.BR LOG_ALERT ,
.BR LOG_CRIT ,
.BR LOG_ERR ,
.BR LOG_WARNING ,
.BR LOG_NOTICE ,
.BR LOG_INFO ,
.BR LOG_DEBUG .
.TP
.I format
Specifies a
.BR printf (3)
style format string.
.TP
.I ap
Specifies variable arguments to the
.B va_args
version
.BR snmp_vlog ().
.TP
.I s
Specifies a
.BR perror (3)
style prefix string to the
.BR snmp_perror ()
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR UCD-SNMP .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B snmp_logging
API provides a set of functions that control the logging of error and other
informational messages for SNMP agents and sub-agents using the UCD-SNMP
libraries.  This manual page provides information about the user-visible SNMP
logging API functions.
.\"
.SS init_snmp_logging\fR()
.PP
Initializes SNMP logging in the SNMP library.  SNMP logging does not normally
need to be explicitly initialized and is normally initialized by other SNMP
library initialization functions.  This function is called by
.BR init_snmp ()
and does not need to be called by the user.
.\"
.SS snmp_get_do_logging\fR()
.PP
Establishes whether logging is in effect to any of the four logging sinks.
The four logging sinks are the system logs (syslog), a file log (filelog),
standard error (stderrlog) or the callback log (calllog).  When logging is not
in effect to any of these sinks,
.BR snmp_get_do_logging ()
returns false (0); otherwise, if logging is in effect to any of these sinks,
it returns true (1).
.\"
.SS snmp_disable_syslog\fR()
.PP
Disables logging to the system logs.
.\"
.SS snmp_disable_filelog\fR()
.PP
Disables logging to the file log.
.\"
.SS snmp_disable_stderrlog\fR()
.PP
Disables logging to standard error.
.\"
.SS snmp_disable_calllog\fR()
.PP
Disables logging to the callback log.
.\"
.SS snmp_disable_log\fR()
.PP
Disables logging to the system logs (syslog), the file log (filelog), standard
error (stderrlog) and the callback log (calllog).  After a call to
.BR snmp_disable_log (),
.BR snmp_get_do_logging ()
will return false (0).
.\"
.SS snmp_enable_syslog\fR()
.PP
Enables logging to the system logs.
.\"
.SS snmp_enable_filelog\fR()
.PP
Enables logging to the file log.
.I logfilename
specifies the full path to the file name to which logging is to commence.
.I dont_zero_log
specifies whether the log should be truncated or appended to.  When
.I dont_zero_log
is true (!0), information will be appended to the end of the log file;
otherwise false (0), the file will be truncated first.
.\"
.SS snmp_enable_stderrlog\fR()
.PP
Enables logging to standard error.
.\"
.SS snmp_enable_calllog\fR()
.PP
Enables logging to the callback log.
.\"
.SS snmp_log\fR()
.PP
.I priority
provides the log priority in the form of the
.I level
argument to 
.BR syslog (3),
and can take on the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBLOG_WARNING\fR\(em'u
.B LOG_EMERG
system is unusable;
.PD 0
.TP
.B LOG_ALERT
action must be taken immediately;
.TP
.B LOG_CRIT
critical conditions;
.TP
.B LOG_ERR
error conditions;
.TP
.B LOG_WARNING
warning conditions;
.TP
.B LOG_NOTICE
normal, but significant, condition;
.TP
.B LOG_INFO
informational message;
.TP
.B LOG_DEBUG
debug-level message.
.PD
.RE
.PP
.I format
provides a
.BR printf (3)
style format string, and the remainder of the arguments are used to complete
the format string into a specific message.
.PP
.BR snmp_log ()
returns zero (0), when successful; minus one (-1), when formatting fails; and,
minus two (-2) when memory could not be allocated for formatting.
.\"
.SS snmp_vlog\fR()
.PP
This is the
.B va_args
version of
.BR snmp_log ().
.\"
.SS snmp_log_perror\fR()
.PP
Provides a log message, in the style of
.BR perror (3),
which is logged at level
.BR LOG_ERR .
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Because
.BR init_snmp ()
calls
.BR init_snmp_logging (),
the later is not usually called directly by the user.  After
.BR init_snmp ()
is called, it is typical to set logging options similar to the following:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
{
    ...
    init_snmp();
    ...
    snmp_disable_log();

    if (log_to_file)
        snmp_enable_filelog(logfilename, dont_zero);
    if (log_to_stderr)
        snmp_enable_stderrlog();
    if (log_to_syslog)
        snmp_enable_syslog();
    if (log_to_calllog)
        snmp_enable_calllog();

    ...

    snmp_log(LOG_NOTICE, "notice: %s\\n", "hello");

    ...

    if (errno == EINVAL)
        snmp_log_perror("myprogram");
    ...

    snmp_disable_log();
    shutdown_snmp();
}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
.BR init_snmp_logging (),
.BR snmp_disable_syslog (),
.BR snmp_disable_filelog (),
.BR snmp_disable_stderrlog (),
.BR snmp_disable_calllog (),
.BR snmp_disable_log (),
.BR snmp_enable_syslog (),
.BR snmp_enable_filelog (),
.BR snmp_enable_stderrlog (),
.BR snmp_enable_calllog (),
.BR snmp_log_perror (),
are always successful (or fail silently) and return
.BR void .
.PP
.BR snmp_get_do_logging (),
returns true (1) when logging is in effect to one of the logging sinks; and
returns false (0) when logging is not in effect to any sink.
.PP
.BR snmp_log (),
.BR snmp_vlog (),
return zero (0), when logging is successful;
minus one (-1), when the format string was in error;
minus two (-2), when memory could not be allocated to format the string.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR snmp_log (),
.BR snmp_vlog (),
fail, they return a negative error code as follows:
.TP
.B -1
The format string was in error.  This error can be avoided by declaring
.BR snmp_log ()
in such a way that the compiler ensures that the format string is correct.
.TP
.B -2
Memory could not be allocated to format the buffer.
.PP
The other
.B snmp_logging
API functions do not provide any informative error codes and most fail
silently.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.I DS_LIBRARY_ID
boolean
.I DS_LIB_LOG_TIMESTAMP
provides a mechanism whereby prefixing of a timestamp can be controlled when
logging is performed to a file log or standard error log.  Setting this
boolean to true with
.BR ds_set_boolean ()
will result in prefixing of timestamps to file and standard error logs.
Setting it to false will result in no timestamps being prefixed to file and
standard error logs.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR snmp_vlog ()
is implemented using
.BR vsnprintf (3).
.BR snmp_log ()
and
.BR snmp_perror ()
are implemented using
.BR snmp_vlog ().
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR default_store (3),
.BR snmp_api (3),
.BR snmp_agent_api (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B snmp_logging
API functions have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
Note that NET-SNMP uses the constants
.IR NETSNMP_DS_LIBRARY_ID " and " NETSNMP_DS_LIB_LOG_TIMESTAMP
instead of
.IR DS_LIBRARY_ID " and " DS_LIB_LOG_TIMESTAMP .
Also, NET-SNMP uses the
.BR netsnmp_ds_set_boolean ()
function instead of
.BR ds_set_boolean ().
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Conformance of logging APIs is not standardized.  This implementation of the
.B snmp_logging
API corresponds to the UCD-SNMP implementation, version 4.2.5.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B snmp_logging
API functions first appeared in UCD-SNMP 4.0.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
