'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: socket.3.man,v 0.9.2.5 2004/05/14 07:59:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH SOCKET 3 "$Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:50 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS Sockets Library"
.SH NAME
.B socket
\- create an endpoint for communication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.HP
.BI "int socket(int " domain ", int " type ", int " protocol );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR socket ()
function creates an unbound socket in a communications
domain, and returns a file descriptor that can be used in later
function calls that operate on sockets.
.PP
The function takes the following arguments:
.TP
.I domain
Specifies the communications domain in which a socket is to be
created.
.TP
.I type
Specifies the type of socket to be created.
.TP
.I protocol
Specifies a particular protocol to be used with the socket.
Specifying a protocol of 0 causes
.BR socket ()
to use an
unspecified default protocol appropriate for the requested
socket type.
.PP
The domain argument specifies the address family used in the
communications domain.  The address families supported by the system
are implementation-dependent.
.PP
Symbolic constants that can be used for the domain argument are
defined in the <sys/socket.h> header.
.PP
The type argument specifies the socket type, which determines the
semantics of communication over the socket.  The socket types
supported by the system are implementation-dependent.  Possible
socket types include:
.TP
.B SOCK_STREAM
Provides sequenced, reliable, bidirectional, connection-mode
byte streams, and may provide a transmission mechanism for
out-of-band data.
.TP
.B SOCK_DGRAM
Provides datagrams, which are connectionless-mode, unreliable
messages of fixed maximum length.
.TP
.B SOCK_SEQPACKET
Provides sequenced, reliable, bidirectional, connection-mode
transmission path for records.  A record can be sent using one
or more output operations and received using one or more input
operations, but a single operation never transfers part of more
than one record.  Record boundaries are visible to the receiver
via the
.B MSG_EOR
flag.
.PP
If the protocol argument is non-zero, it must specify a protocol
that is supported by the address family.  The protocols supported by
the system are implementation-dependent.
.PP
The process may need to have appropriate privileges to use the
.BR socket ()
function or to create some sockets.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The documentation for specific address families specify which
protocols each address family supports.  The documentation for
specific protocols specify which socket types each protocol
supports.
.PP
The application can determine if an address family is supported by
trying to create a socket with domain set to the protocol in
question.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
This system call is implemented as a
.B SIOCSOCKSYS
IOCTL.  See
.BR socksys (4)
for more information.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.BR socket ()
returns a nonnegative integer,
the socket file descriptor.  Otherwise a value of -1 is returned and
.IR errno (3)
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The
.BR socket ()
function will fail if:
.TP
.RB [ EAFNOSUPPORT ]
The implementation does not support the specified address
family.
.TP
.RB [ EMFILE ]
No more file descriptors are available for this process.
.TP
.RB [ ENFILE ]
No more file descriptors are available for the system.
.TP
.RB [ EPROTONOSUPPORT ]
The protocol is not supported by the address family, or the
protocol is not supported by the implementation.
.TP
.RB [ EPROTOTYPE ]
The socket type is not supported by the protocol.
.PP
The
.BR socket ()
function may fail if:
.TP
.RB [ EACCES ]
The process does not have appropriate privileges.
.TP
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform
the operation.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
Insufficient memory was available to fulfill the request.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
There were insufficient
.IR STREAMS (4)
resources available for the
operation to complete.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR accept (3),
.BR bind (3),
.BR connect (3),
.BR getsockname (3),
.BR getsockopt (3),
.BR listen (3),
.BR recv (3),
.BR recvfrom (3),
.BR recvmsg (3),
.BR send (3),
.BR sendmsg (3),
.BR setsockopt (3),
.BR shutdown (3),
.BR socketpair (3),
.BR <netinet/in.h> ,
.BR <sys/socket.h> .
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
The Open Group XNS Issue 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
