'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strlog.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-28 12:53:40 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:40 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strlog.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-28 12:53:40  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/12/18 07:26:40  brian
.\" - added missing manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRLOG 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strlog, vstrlog
\- print a \fISTREAMS\fR log buffer
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stdio.h>
.br
.B #include <strlog.h>
.HP
.BI "int strlog(short " mid ", short " sid ", char " level ", unsigned short " flags ", char *" fmt ", " ... );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int vstrlog(short " mid ", short " sid ", char " level ", unsigned short " flags ", char *" fmt ", va_list " args );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I mid
specifies the
.I STREAMS
module id
.PD 0
.TP
.I sid
specifies the
.I STREAMS
minor device or instance number associated with the module.
.TP
.I level
specifies the priority level.
.TP
.I flags
log flags specifying the severity and options associated with the
.I STREAMS
log.
.TP
.I fmt
provides the
.BR printf (3)
style format string.
.TP
.I ...
provides the arguments for the
.BR printf (3)
style format string for
.BR strlog ().
.TP
.I args
provides the arguments for the
.BR printf (3)
style format string for
.BR vstrlog ().
.PD
.PP
.BR vstrlog ()
is a
.B va_list
version of
.BR strlog ().
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR strlog ()
is the user interface to the
.I STREAMS
.BR log (4)
error and trace logger.  When the
.BR log (4)
driver is loaded on the system, log messages will be passed to the
.BR log (4)
driver as described in
.BR strlog (4).
.PP
.BR strlog ()
formulates and passes a
.I STREAMS
message to the
.I STREAMS
logger,
.BR log (4),
to be passed to active
.BR strerr (8)
and
.BR strace (8)
logging processes listening on the
.BR log (4)
device.
.PP
.BR vstrlog ()
is a
.B va_list
version of
.BR strlog ()
that accepts all the same arguments, with the exception of the variable
arguments list, which is formulated as the
.B va_list
.I args
argument.
.PP
.I mid
identifies the
.I STREAMS
module id associated with the
.I STREAMS
driver or module generating the log.
.I sid
is the minor device node or module instance within the
.I STREAMS
driver or module to which the log applies.
.I level
indicates the priority level of the log message with respect to other log
messages in the same class.
.I flags
can contain a bitwise OR of zero or more of the following flags:
.TP \w'\fBSL_NOPUTBUF\fR\(em'u
.B SL_FATAL
log with
.BR syslog (3)
.I level
of
.BR LOG_CRIT.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SL_ERROR
log with
.BR syslog (3)
.I level
of
.BR LOG_ERR.
.TP
.B SL_WARN
log with
.BR syslog (3)
.I level
of
.BR LOG_WARNING.
.TP
.B SL_NOTE
log with
.BR syslog (3)
.I level
of
.BR LOG_NOTICE.
.TP
.B SL_CONSOLE
log with
.BR syslog (3)
.I level
of
.BR LOG_INFO.
.TP
.B SL_TRACE
log with
.BR syslog (3)
.I level
of
.BR LOG_DEBUG.
.TP
.B SL_NOTIFY
indicates that a copy of the log should be mailed to the system administrator.
.TP
.B SL_NOPUTBUF
indicates that the log should not be buffered.
.PD
.PP
These arguments are placed into the corresponding fields of the
.I STREAMS
message to be passed to the error and trace loggers as described in
.BR strlog (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR strlog ()
is a user space version of the
.BR strlog (9)
kernel facility.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Upon success,
.BR strlog ()
and
.BR vstrlog ()
dispatch the log to the logger and return zero (0).  Upon failure,
.BR strlog ()
and
.BR vstrlog ()
return minus one (-1) and set
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.BR strlog ()
or
.BR vstrlog ()
fail whenever the
.BR log (4)
driver is not available, or allocation of necessary memory fails.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR strlog ()
or
.BR vstrlog ()
fail, they return minus one (-1) and set
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
sufficient memory to complete the request could not be allocated.
.PP
In general,
.BR strlog ()
and
.BR vstrlog ()
can return any error returned by
.BR putpmsg (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
By default,
.BR strlog ()
and
.BR vstrlog ()
always log with the
.BR strlog (3)
.I facility
of
.BR LOG_USER .
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR strlog ()
and
.BR vstrlog ()
are implemented in user space using the same coding as
.BR strlog (9)
and
.BR vstrlog (9),
but sends the resulting message to the logger using
.BR putpmsg (2)
instead of directly passing a
.I STREAMS
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/streams/strlog ", " /dev/streams/log ", " /dev/strlog " or " /dev/log
the
.I STREAMS
logging device.  See
.BR strlog (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR log (4),
.BR strlog (1),
.BR pstrlog (3),
.BR strlog (4),
.BR strlog (9),
.BR vstrlog (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR strlog ()
has no known bugs.
.PP
Validated behavior is provided by the
.BR test-log (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR strlog ()
is compatibile with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
and systems based on 
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR strlog ()
is specific to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
Most implementations of the
.BR log (4)
driver do not provide a mechanism for printing a log buffer.
.BR strlog ()
is provided to remove the dependency on the specific format of the log buffer
from a
.BR log (4)
driver application program.
.IP \(em
.BR strlog ()
and
.BR vstrlog ()
only support
.BR printf (3)
style format specifiers:
.IR %h ", " %l ", " %q ", " %L ", " %Z ", " %z ", " %t ", " %c ", " %p ", " %o ", " %X ", " %x ", " %d ", " %i ", " %u ", " %s .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR strlog ()
is new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
