'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_getstate.3.man,v 0.9.2.4 2004/05/14 07:59:51 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:51 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_GETSTATE 3 "$Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:51 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B t_getstate
\- get interface state
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_getstate(int " fd );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport endpoint for which to return the transport endpoint state.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_getstate ()
retrieve the state of the tranport interface associated with
.IR fd .
.PP
.I fd
is the local transport endpoint whose interface state is to be retrieved.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_getstate ()
returns a positive integer reflecting the transport interface state of
.I fd .
The state value returned can be one of the following:
.TP
.B T_UNINIT
the transport interface is in the uninitialized state.
.TP
.B T_UNBND
the transport interface is in the unbound state.
.TP
.B T_IDLE
the transport interface is in the idle state.
.TP
.B T_OUTCON
the transport interface is in the outgoing connection establishment state.
.TP
.B T_INCON
the transport interface is in the incoming connection establishment state.
.TP
.B T_DATAXFER
the transport interface is in the data transfer state.
.TP
.B T_OUTREL
the transport interface is in the outgoing connection release state.
.TP
.B T_INREL
the transport interface is in the incoming connection release state.
.\".TP
.\".B T_FAKE
.\".TP
.\".B T_HACK
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR t_getstate ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_getstate ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSTATECHNG ]
The interface is in a transient state.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A \fBLinux\fR system error occured and the \fBLinux\fR error number is set in \fIerrno\fR(3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR errno (3),
.BR t_errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR t_getstate ()
has no known bugs.
.BR t_getstate ()
has been tested for the described behavior using the
.I /usr/bin/test-xnet
conformance test program.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
