'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_look.3.man,v 0.9.2.3 2004/04/17 20:04:02 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 20:04:02 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_LOOK 3 "$Date: 2004/04/17 20:04:02 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B t_look
\- look for a transport event
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_look(int " fd );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport endpoint upon which to look for events.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_look ()
looks for a pending asynchronous event on the local transport endpoint
specified by
.IR fd .
.PP
.I fd
specifies the local transport endpoint upon which to look for a pending
asynchronous event.
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
When an XTI/TLI library call is expecting a specific response from the transport
service provider, such as in
.BR t_accept (3),
.BR t_addleaf (3),
.BR t_connect (3),
.BR t_listen (3),
.BR t_rcv (3),
.BR t_rcvconnect (3),
.BR t_rcvleafchange (3),
.BR t_rcvrel (3),
.BR t_rcvreldata (3),
.BR t_rcvv (3),
.BR t_rcvvudata (3),
.BR t_removeleaf (3),
.BR t_snd (3),
.BR t_snddis (3),
.BR t_sndrel (3),
.BR t_sndreldata (3),
.BR t_sndudata (3),
.BR t_sndv (3),
.BR t_sndvudata (3),
and
.BR t_unbind (3),
an asynchronous event is received other than the expected event, the above
calls will fail, return -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.BR TLOOK .
When such a failure occurs,
.BR t_look ()
can be used to determine which asynchronous event occured and determine the
next course of action.
.PP
Also,
.BR t_look ()
can be used to determine which event is pending without previoulsy calling one
of the XTI/TLI library calls listed above.  For example,
.BR t_look ()
can be called after a call to
.BR poll (2)
for a group of file descriptors to determine the event that has occured on the
transport endpoint.  This is in fitting with the
.BR poll (2)
example listed in XNS 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.PP
The following XTI/TLI library commands return
.RB [ TLOOK ]
when the listed asynchronous events have occured:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lblssss.
t_accept\fR(3):T_DISCONNECT, T_LISTEN
t_connect\fR(3):T_DISCONNECT, T_LISTEN
t_listen\fR(3):T_DISCONNECT
t_rcv\fR(3):T_DISCONNECT, T_ORDREL
t_rcvconnect\fR(3):T_DISCONNECT
t_rcvrel\fR(3):T_DISCONNECT
t_rcvreldata\fR(3):T_DISCONNECT
t_rcvudata\fR(3):T_UDERR
t_rcvv\fR(3):T_DISCONNECT, T_ORDREL
t_rcvvudata\fR(3):T_UDERR
t_snd\fR(3):T_DISCONNECT, T_ORDREL
t_sndudata\fR(3):T_UDERR
t_sndv\fR(3):T_DISCONNECT, T_ORDREL
t_sndvudata\fR(3):T_UDERR
t_unbind\fR(3):T_LISTEN, T_DATA, T_UDERR
t_sndrel\fR(3):T_DISCONNECT
t_sndreldata\fR(3):T_DISCONNECT
t_snddis\fR(3):T_DISCONNECT
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_look ()
returns a positive integer reflecting the asynchronous event received and is one of the
following values:
.TP
.B T_LISTEN
connection indication received.
.TP
.B T_CONNECT
connection confirmation received.
.TP
.B T_DATA
normal data received.
.TP
.B T_EXDATA
expedited data received.
.TP
.B T_DISCONNECT
disconnection received.
.TP
.B T_UDERR
datagram error indication received.
.TP
.B T_ORDREL
orderly release indication received.
.TP
.B T_GODATA
sending normal data is again possible.
.TP
.B T_GOEXDATA
sending expedited data is again possible.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR t_look ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_look ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A \fBLinux\fR system error occured and the \fBLinux\fR error number is set in
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR errno (3),
.BR t_accept (3),
.BR t_addleaf (3),
.BR t_connect (3),
.BR t_errno (3).
.BR t_listen (3),
.BR t_rcv (3),
.BR t_rcvconnect (3),
.BR t_rcvleafchange (3),
.BR t_rcvrel (3),
.BR t_rcvreldata (3),
.BR t_rcvv (3),
.BR t_rcvvudata (3),
.BR t_removeleaf (3),
.BR t_snd (3),
.BR t_snddis (3),
.BR t_sndrel (3),
.BR t_sndreldata (3),
.BR t_sndudata (3),
.BR t_sndv (3),
.BR t_sndvudata (3),
.BR t_unbind (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR t_look ()
has no known bugs.
.BR t_look ()
has been tested for the described behavior using the
.I /usr/bin/test-xnet
conformance test program.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
