'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_optmgmt.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/03/07 22:49:10 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/07 22:49:10 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_OPTMGMT 3 "$Date: 2004/03/07 22:49:10 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS XTI Library"
.SH NAME
.B t_optmgmt
\- manage transport options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_optmgmt(int " fd ", const struct t_optmgmt *" req ", struct t_optmgmt *" ret );
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP 12
.I fd
the transport endpoint for which to manage options.
.TP
.I req
a pointer to a
.B t_optmgmt
structure containing the requested options.
.TP
.I ret
a pointer to a
.BR t_optmgmt
structure to contain the returned options.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_optmgmt ()
manages options associated with the underlying transport provider for the
endpoint
.IR fd .
.PP
.I fd
specifies the local transport endpoint upon which to manage options.
.PP
.I req
is a pointer to a
.B t_optmgmt
structure that provides the passed in option names and values.
.PP
.I ret
is a pointer to a
.B t_optmgmt
structure that provides the returned option names and values.
.PP
The
.B t_optmgmt
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_optmgmt {
        struct netbuf opt;
        t_scalar_t flags;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
The
.B t_optmgmt
structure passes and returns the following members and information.
.TP 12
.I opt
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure that contains passed in
.IR "" ( req )
or returned
.IR "" ( ret )
options names and values.  Options are structured as described below under
.IR "\(lqOPTIONS\(rq" .
The
.IR req->opt.len and ret->opt.maxlen
is significant on call and the
.I ret->opt.len
is significant on return.
If
.I req->opt.len
is zero on call, no option names and values are passed.
If
.I ret->opt.maxlen
is zero on call or
.I ret->opt.len
is zero on return, no option names and values are returned.
.TP 12
.I flags
specifies and returns management flags which can be one of the following
values:
.RS
.TP 12
.B T_DEFAULT
requests that the default options for the specified option names, or if
.I req->opt.len
is zero, all default options, be returned.
.TP 12
.B T_CURRENT
requests that the current options for the specified option names, or if
.I req->opt.len
is zero, all current options, be returned.
.TP 12
.B T_CHECK
requests that the options specified in
.I req
be checked for validity and validity reported in
.IR ret .
.TP 12
.B T_NEGOTIATE
requests that the options specified in
.I req
be negoitated and the negotiated values returned in
.IR ret .
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
Options with the
.I opt
field of the
.B t_optmgmt
structure (and other structures including XTI options)
are a formatted as a contiguous list of options.  Each option in the list
begins with a
.B t_opthdr
structure formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_opthdr {
    t_uscalar_t len;            /* Option length, incl. header */
    t_uscalar_t level;          /* Option level */
    t_uscalar_t name;           /* Option name */
    t_uscalar_t status;         /* Negotiation result */
    char value[0];              /* and onwards...  */
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
The
.B t_opthdr
strucuture contains the following members:
.TP 12
.I len
the length of the option including the length of this header and the length of
the option value that follows.
.TP 12
.I level
the level of the option.
.I level
values are transport service provider specific.
.TP 12
.I name
the name of the option within the
.IR level .
.I name
values are transport service provider specific.
.TP 12
.I value
the value of the option.  This is a variable lenght field, the length of which
is specific to the option specified by
.I level
and
.IR name.
The format of option values is transport service provider specific.
.PP
Option headers in the options list are always aligned in memory to permit
direct access to the header.  This means that the next option in the
list will begin on the next alignment boundary for a
.B t_opthdr
structure.  A macro is provided to assist the XTI application writer in
locating the next option in the option list.
.PP
A number of macros are provided to assist with handling options in option
lists.  These macros are decribed as follows:
.HP 12
.B T_OPT_FIRSTHDR(b)
takes a an argument
.I b
a pointer to the
.BR netbuf (3)
structure describing the options list and returns a pointer to the first
.B t_opthdr
structure in the list.
.HP 12
.B T_OPT_NEXTHDR(b, p)
takes as arguments
.I b
a pointer to the
.BR netbuf (3)
structure describing the options list and
.I p
a pointer to the
.B t_opthdr
for the current option, and returns a pointer to the
.B t_opthdr
of the next option in the list, or
.B NULL
if there is no next option in the list.
.HP 12
.B T_OPT_DATA(p)
takes as an argument
.I p
a pointer to the
.B t_opthdr
for the options and returns a unsigned character pointer to the
.I value
for the option.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR t_optmgmt ()
is valid in any state other than
.BR T_UNINIT .
.PP
.BR t_optmgmt ()
is valid for all transport service providers regardless of service type.
Not all transport service providers necessarily support this function.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_optmgmt ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR t_optmgmt ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_optmgmt ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP 12
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP 12
.RB [ TBADFLAG ]
The argument
.I req->flags
contains invalid flags.
.TP 12
.RB [ TBADOPT ]
The options specified were of an invalid format or contained invalid information.
See
.IR "\(lqOPTIONS\(rq" ,
above, for more information on option formats.
.TP 12
.RB [ TBUFOVFLW ]
The \fImaxlen\fR field of a \fBnetbuf\fR(3) structure passed to the call was
non-zero, but insufficient to hold the available opaque information.  See,
\fBnetbuf\fR(3) for more information.
.TP 12
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
The call requires the use of a TLI primitive not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.TP 12
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The call was issued with the interface in an incorrect state.
.TP 12
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP 12
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A \fBLinux\fR system error occured and the \fBLinux\fR error number is set in \fIerrno\fR(3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR errno (3),
.BR netbuf (3),
.BR t_errno (3).
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
