'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_rcv.3.man,v 0.9.2.5 2004/05/14 07:59:51 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:51 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_RCV 3 "$Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:51 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B t_rcv
\- received transport data
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_rcv(int " fd ", char *" buf ", unsigned int " nbytes ", int *" flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport endpoint upon which to receive data.
.TP
.I buf
a pointer to a buffer to contain the received data.
.TP
.I nbytes
the maximum number of bytes in the caller supplied buffer.
.TP
.I flags
a pointer to an
.B int
to contain the returned data flags.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_rcv ()
receives connection oriented transport data arriving on the local transport
endpoint identified by
.I fd .
.PP
.I fd
specifies the local transport endpoint upon which the connection oriented data
is expected to arrive.
.PP
.I buf
points to a buffer to contain the received data on return.
.PP
.I nbytes
specifies the size of the buffer
.IR buf .
.PP
.I flags
provides information about the received data on return.  Flags returned by
.BR t_rcv ()
can be a bitwise OR of any of the following flags:
.TP
.B T_MORE
indicates on return that a subsequent receive operation is necessary to
receive the remainder of the data belonging to the same transport service data
unit.
.TP
.B T_EXPEDITED
indicates on return that the received data was expedited data.
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR t_rcv ()
is only valid in the
.BR T_DATAXFER " or " T_OUTREL
states.
.PP
In synchronous mode,
.BR t_rcv ()
will block awaiting the arrival of data or an asynchronous event.  In
asynchronous mode,
.BR t_rcv ()
if there is no data immediately available,
.BR t_rcv ()
will fail, return -1 and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.BR TNODATA .
.PP
Portions of a transport service data unit can be interleaved with portions of
an expedited transport service data unit.
.PP
If the
.I tsdu
field of the
.B t_info
structure returned by
.BR t_open "(3) or " t_getinfo (3)
is
.BR T_INVALID ,
then the flag
.B T_MORE
has no meaning for normal data received with
.BR t_rcv ().
If the
.I etsdu
field of the
.B t_info
structure returned by
.BR t_open "(3) or " t_getinfo (3)
is
.BR T_INVALID ,
then the flag
.B T_MORE
has no meaning for expedited data received with
.BR t_rcv ().
.PP
.BR t_rcv ()
is functionally equivalent to
.BR read (2),
and the two functions can be used interchangeably; however,
.BR read (2)
does not maintain
.IR t_errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_rcv ()
returns zero (0) or a positive integer indicating the number of bytes that was
received and placed in the caller supplied buffer
.IR buf .
In addition, on success,
.BR t_rcv ()
returns flags associated with the received data in the area pointed to by
.IR flags .
Upon failure,
.BR t_rcv ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_rcv ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TLOOK ]
An asynchronous event occured before the call could complete.  See \fBt_look\fR(3) for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TNODATA ]
An attempt was made to read data but no data indication was available.
.TP
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
The call requires the use of a TLI primitive not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The call was issued with the interface in an incorrect state.
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A \fBLinux\fR system error occured and the \fBLinux\fR error number is set in \fIerrno\fR(3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR errno (3),
.BR read (2),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_getinfo (3),
.BR t_look (3),
.BR t_open (3),
.BR t_rcvudata (3),
.BR t_rcvv (3),
.BR t_rcvvudata (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR t_rcv ()
has no known bugs.
.BR t_rcv ()
has been tested for the described behavior using the
.I /usr/bin/test-xnet
conformance test program.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
