'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_rcvuderr.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/03/01 02:44:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_RCVUDERR 3 "$Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:05 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS XTI Library"
.SH NAME
.B t_rcvuderr
\- receive unitdata error
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_rcvuderr(int " fd ", struct t_uderr *" err );
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP 12
.I fd
the transport endpoint upon which to receive a unit data error.
.TP
.I err
a pointer to a
.B t_uderr
structure to contain returned information about the received error.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_rcvuderr ()
receives a unitdata error indication that arrived on the local transport
endpoint specified by
.IR fd .
.PP
.I fd
specifies the local transport endpoint upon which the unitdata error
indication arrives.
.PP
.I err
points to a
.B t_uderr
structure that returns the destination address and options associated with the
original message and the error code.
The
.B t_uderr
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_uderr {
        struct netbuf addr;             /* address */
        struct netbuf opt;              /* options */
        t_scalar_t error;               /* error code */
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
The
.B t_uderr
structure returns the following members and information:
.TP 12
.I addr
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure that returns the destination address of the original unitdata that
resulted in the unitdata error indication.
The
.I err->addr.maxlen
is significant on call and the
.I err->addr.len
is significant on return.
If
.I err->addr.maxlen
is zero on call, no destination address is returned.
If
.I err->addr.len
is zero on return, no destination address was associated with the unitdata
error indication.
.TP 12
.I opt
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure that returns the options associated with the original unitdata that
resulted in the unitdata error indication.
The
.I err->opt.maxlen
is significant on call and the
.I err->opt.len
is significant on return.
If
.I err->opt.maxlen
is zero on call, no options are returned.
If
.I err->opt.len
is zero on return, no options were associated with the original unitdata that
resulted in the unitdata error indication.
.TP 12
.I error
the error code value is transport service provider specific.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR t_rcvuderr ()
is only valid in state
.BR T_IDLE .
.PP
.BR t_rcvuderr ()
is valid only for transport service providers for service type
.BR T_CLTS .
.PP
In synchronous mode,
.BR t_rcvuderr ()
will block until a unitdata error indication is received.
In asyncronous mode when no unitdata error indication is immediately
available,
.BR t_rcvuderr ()
fails, returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.BR TNOUDERR .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_rcvuderr ()
returns zero (0) and the destination address, options and error code in the
.B t_uderr
structure.
Upon failure,
.BR t_rcvuderr ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_rcvuderr ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP 12
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP 12
.RB [ TBUFOVFLW ]
The
.I maxlen
field of a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure passed to the call
.IR "" ( addr ", " opt )
was non-zero, but insufficient to hold the available information.  See,
.BR netbuf (3)
for more information.
.TP 12
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
The call requires the use of a TLI primitive not supported by the underlying transport provider.
This can happen when the transport service provider is of type
.BR T_COTS " or " T_COTS_ORD .
.TP 12
.RB [ TNOUDERR ]
An attempt was made to read a unitdata error and no unitdata error indication was available and
.I fd
is in asynchronous mode
.BR "" ( O_NONBLOCK " or " O_NDELAY
was set using
.BR t_open (3)
or
.BR fcntl (2)).
.TP 12
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The call was issued with the interface in a state other than
.RB [R T_IDLE .
.TP 12
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP 12
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A
.B Linux
system error occured and the
.B Linux
error number is set in
.BR errno (3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR errno (3),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR netbuf (3),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_open (3).
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
