'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_rcvvudata.3.man,v 0.9.2.4 2004/04/17 20:32:58 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 20:32:58 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_RCVVUDATA 3 "$Date: 2004/04/17 20:32:58 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B t_rcvvudata
\- receive unitdata and scatter
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_rcvvudata(int " fd ", struct t_unitdata *" data ", struct t_iovec *" iov ", unsigned int " iovcnt ", int *" flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport endpoint upon which to receive scatter-gather data.
.TP
.I data
a pointer to a
.B t_unitdata
structure to contain the returned address and options information.
.TP
.I iov
a pointer to a
.B t_iovec
structure containing a scatter-gather array into which to receive the data.
.TP
.I iovcnt
a count of the number of buffer vectors in the array.
.TP
.I flags
a pointer to an
.I int
to contain the received data flags.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_recvvudata ()
receives a unitdata indication and places the recieved data into scatter
buffers.
.PP
.I fd
specifies the local transport endpoint upon which the unitdata indication
arrives.
.PP
.I data
is a
.B t_unitdata
structure that returns the unitdata message information.
.PP
.I iov
is a pointer to an array of
.B t_iovec
structures specifying the scatter buffers.
.PP
.I iovcnt
is the count of the number of
.B t_iovec
structures in the array pointed to by
.IR iov .
.PP
.I flags
are flags returned describing the received data.  Flags returned by
.BR t_rcvvudata ()
can be a btiwise OR of the following flags:
.TP
.B T_MORE
indicates on return that a subsequent receive operation is necesary to receive
the remainder of the data belonging to the same transport service data unit.
.PP
The
.B t_iovec
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_iovec {
        void *iov_base;
        size_t iov_len;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
The
.B t_iovec
structure specifies the following members:
.TP
.I iov_base
The base of the buffer.
.TP
.I iov_len
The length of the buffer.
.PP
When data is recieved, each buffer in the array of buffers
.I iov
are used in order until they are filled and then data is filled into the next
sequential buffer in the array.
.\"
.\"
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR t_rcvvudata ()
is only valid in the
.BR T_IDLE
state.
.PP
.BR t_rcvvudata ()
is only valid for service transport providers of service type
.BR T_CLTS .
.PP
In synchronous mode,
.BR t_rcvvudata ()
blocks until a unitdata indication is available.  In asynchronous mode when
there is not unitdata indication immediately available,
.BR t_rcvvudata ()
fails, returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TNODATA ].
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_rcvudata ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR t_rcvudata ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_rcvudata ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADDATA ]
The amount of data specified for the call and underlying transport service
provider was invalid (i.e. was outside the protocol limits).  See
.BR t_getinfo (3)
and
.BR t_open (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TBUFOVFLW ]
The
.I maxlen
field of a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure passed to the call was
non-zero, but insufficient to hold the available opaque information.  See,
.BR netbuf (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TLOOK ]
An asynchronous event occured before the call could complete.  See
.BR t_look (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TNODATA ]
An attempt was made to read data but no data indication was available.
.TP
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
The call requires the use of a TPI primitive not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The call was issued with the interface in an incorrect state.
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A
.B Linux
system error occured and the
.B Linux
error number is set in
.IR errno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR errno (3),
.BR netbuf (3),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_getinfo (3),
.BR t_look (3),
.BR t_open (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR t_rcvvudata ()
has no known bugs.
.BR t_rcvvudata ()
has been tested for the described behavior using the
.I /usr/bin/test-xnet
conformance test program.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
