'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_removeleaf.3.man,v 0.9.2.5 2004/05/14 07:59:51 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:51 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_REMOVELEAF 3 "$Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:51 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library"
.SH NAME
.B t_removeleaf
\- remove a point from a point to multipoint connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_removeleaf(int " fd ", int " leafid ", int " reason );
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport endpoint from which a leaf is to be removed.
.TP
.I leafid
the leaf identifier to remove.
.TP
.I reason
the reason for removing the leaf.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Requests that an endpoint be removed from a point to multipoint connection.
.PP
.I fd
is the filed descriptor of the local transport endpoint.
.PP
.I leafid
is a transport user assigned integer value which was used to identify the
point added to the point to multipoint connection when
.BR t_addleaf (3)
was called.  This is the point to remove from the point to multipoint
connection.
.PP
.I reason
is the reason for disconnecting the endpoint from the point to multipoint
connection.
.I reason
values are transport service provider specific.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR t_removeleaf ()
is only valid in the
.B T_DATAXFER
state.
.PP
.BR t_removeleaf ()
is only valid for transport service providers of service type
.BR T_COTS " or " T_COTS_ORD
that support point to multipoint connection management.
.\".PP
.\"In synchronous mode,
.\".BR t_removeleaf ()
.\"blocks until a leaf change confirmation is received.
.\"In asynchronous mode where no leaf change confirmation is immediately
.\"avaialble,
.\".BR t_removeleaf ()
.\"fails, returns -1 and sets
.\".IR t_errno (3)
.\"to
.\".BR TNODATA .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_removeleaf ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR t_removeleaf ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_removeleaf ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The call was issued with the interface in an incorrect state.
.TP
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
The call requires the use of a TLI primitive not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A
.B Linux
system error occured and the
.B Linux
error number is set in
.BR errno (3).
.TP
.RB [ TLOOK ]
An asynchronous event occured before the call could complete.  See
.BR t_look (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR errno (3),
.BR t_addleaf (3),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_look (3).
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
