'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: t_snddis.3.man,v 0.9.2.4 2004/04/17 20:32:58 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 20:32:58 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH T_SNDDIS 3 "$Date: 2004/04/17 20:32:58 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Library"
.SH NAME
.B t_snddis
\- send abortive disconnect
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int t_snddis(int " fd ", const struct t_call *" call );
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the transport endpoint to disconnect.
.TP
.I call
a pointer to a
.B t_call
structure containing information about the disconnection.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR t_snddis ()
requests a disconnect of an existing transport connection, or refusal of an
outstanding connection indication.
.PP
.I fd
specifies the local transport endpoint to disconnect or from which to refuse
the outstanding connection indication.  In the case of oustanding connection
indications, the local transport endpoint
.I fd
must be the same file descriptor upon which the outstanding connection
indication was received.  In addition,
.I fd
must have an outstanding connection indication count greater than one.
.PP
.I call
is a pointer to a
.B t_call
structure that specifies the responding address from which to disconnect, the
disconnect options, disconnect data, and the sequence number (or 0) of the
outstanding connection request which is being refused.
The
.B t_call
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_call {
        struct netbuf addr;     /* address              */
        struct netbuf opt;      /* options              */
        struct netbuf udata;    /* data                 */
        int sequence;           /* identification       */
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
The
.B t_call
structure specifies the following members and information:
.TP
.I addr
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure specifying the responding address to use for refusing a connection
indication.
The
.I call->addr.len
is significant on call and ignored on return.
The
.I call->addr.maxlen
is meaningless.
If
.I call->addr.len
is zero on call, there is no responding address from which to send the data or
reject the outstanding connection indication.  In this case, the transport
address to which the local endpoint is bound will be used as the responding
address, if a responding address is required by the underlying protocol.
.TP
.I opt
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure that contains the disconnect options.
The
.I call->opt.len
is significant on call and ignored on return.
The
.I call->opt.maxlen
is meaningless.
If
.I call->opt.len
is zero on call, there are not disconnect options associated with the request.
.TP
.I udata
is a
.BR netbuf (3)
structure that contains the disconnect data.
The
.I call->udata.len
is significant on call and ignored on return.
The
.I call->udata.maxlen
is meaningless.
If
.I call->udata.len
is zero on call, there is no data associated with the request.
.TP
.I sequence
specifies the sequence number, previously returned from a call to
.BR t_listen (3),
of the outstanding connection indication to which this disconnect request
(call refusal) pertains.  When
.BR t_snddis ()
is called nm
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR t_snddis ()
is only valid in states
.BR T_DATAXFER ", " T_OUTCON ", " T_OUTREL ", " T_INREL ", " T_INCON
with a non-zero number of outstanding indication requests, otherwise
.BR t_snddis ()
will fail and set
.IR t_errno (3)
to
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ].
.PP
.BR t_snddis ()
is only valid for transport service providers for service type
.BR T_COTS " or " T_COTS_ORD .

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR t_snddis ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR t_snddis ()
returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR t_snddis ()
fails, it returns -1 and sets
.IR t_errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[TNOTSUPPORT]\(em'u
.RB [ TBADF ]
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TBADDATA ]
The amount of data specified for the call and underlying transport service
provider was invalid (i.e. was outside the protocol limits).  See
.BR t_getinfo (3)
and
.BR t_open (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TBADSEQ ]
The
.I sequence
number provided was invalid, or is not associated with an outstanding connection indication.
.TP
.RB [ TLOOK ]
An asynchronous event occured before the call could complete.  See
.BR t_look (3)
for more information.
.TP
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
The call requires the use of a TPI primitive not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The call was issued with the interface in an incorrect state.
.TP
.RB [ TPROTO ]
A protocol error occured between the XTI/TLI library and the underlying transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A
.B Linux
system error occured and the
.B Linux
error number is set in
.BR errno (3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR errno (3),
.BR netbuf (3),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_getinfo (3),
.BR t_listen (3),
.BR t_look (3),
.BR t_open (3).
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
XPG5,
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2.
.[
susv2
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
