'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: xti_ss7.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/03/01 02:44:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH XTI-SS7 3 "$Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:05 $" "$Name:  $" "X/Open Transport Inteface"
.SH NAME
.B xti_ss7
\- X/Open Transport Interface \- Corrigendum for Signalling System No. 7 (SS7)
.SH SYNOPSIS
The file type is \*(.T
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH "ADDRESS FORMAT"
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "T_SS7_SS7"
.TP 12
.B T_SS7_PVAR
This option is a
.B t_uscalar_t
that specifies or indicates the protocol variant supported by the provider.
This option can be used with
.BR t_optmgmt (3).
It is normally not possible to set or negotiate this value using the XTI
stream.  This value is normally read-only to the XTI user stream and is set
using management configuration IO controls on the specific driver.
.sp 0.4v
Protocol variant can be one of the following values:
.sp 0.4v
.TS
tab(:);
lb 1 l.
T_SS7_PVAR_ITUT88:\(em ITU-T 1988 Recommendations
T_SS7_PVAR_ITUT93:\(em ITU-T 1993 Recommendations
T_SS7_PVAR_ITUT96:\(em ITU-T 1996 Recommendations
T_SS7_PVAR_ITUT00:\(em ITU-T 2000 Recommendations
T_SS7_PVAR_ETSI88:\(em ETSI 1988 Specifications
T_SS7_PVAR_ETSI93:\(em ETSI 1993 Specifications
T_SS7_PVAR_ETSI96:\(em ETSI 1996 Specifications
T_SS7_PVAR_ETSI00:\(em ETSI 2000 Specifications
T_SS7_PVAR_ANSI88:\(em ANSI 1988 Standards
T_SS7_PVAR_ANSI92:\(em ANSI 1992 Standards
T_SS7_PVAR_ANSI96:\(em ANSI 1996 Standards
T_SS7_PVAR_ANSI00:\(em ANSI 2000 Standards
T_SS7_PVAR_JTTC94:\(em JTTC 1994 Specifications
.TE
.TP 12
.B T_SS7_MPLEV
This option is a
.B t_scalar_t
that has value
.BR T_YES " or " T_NO ,
that indicates whether the SS7 protocol provider supports multiple levels of
message priority and congestion.  When this option has setting
.BR T_YES ,
it indicates that the SS7 protocol provider supports multiple levels of
message priority; when
.BR T_NO ,
that it does not.
This value is normally read-only to the XTI user.
.TP 12
.B T_SS7_DEBUG
.TP 12
.B T_SS7_PCR
This option is a
.B t_scalar_t
that has value
.BR T_YES " or " T_NO ,
that indicates whether the SS7 protocol provider supports Preventative Cyclic
Retransmission on signalling links.  When this option has setting
.BR T_YES ,
it indicates that the SS7 protocol provider supports Preventative Cyclic
Retransmission; when
.BR T_NO ,
that it does not.
This value is normally read-only to the XTI user.
.TP 12
.B T_SS7_HSL
This options is a
.B t_scalar_t
that has value
.BR T_YES " or " T_NO ,
that indicates whether the SS7 protocol provider supports High Speed Links.
When this option has setting
.BR T_YES ,
it idnicates that the SS7 protocol provider supports High Speed Links; when
.BR T_NO ,
that it does not.
.TP 12
.B T_SS7_XSN
.TP 12
.B T_SS7_CLUSTER
.TP 12
.B T_SS7_SEQ_CTRL
.TP 12
.B T_SS7_PRIORITY
.TP 12
.B T_SS7_PCLASS
.TP 12
.B T_SS7_IMPORTANCE
.TP 12
.B T_SS7_RET_ERROR
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
.SH "CAVEATS"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xti (3),
.BR xnet (3).
.SH "DEVICES"
.SH "VERSIONS"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
The Open Group XNS Issue 5.2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
