'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: xti_udp.3,v 0.9.2.1 2004/02/29 19:06:48 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/02/29 19:06:48 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH XTI-UDP 3 "$Date: 2004/02/29 19:06:48 $" "$Name:  $" "X/Open Transport Interface"
.SH "NAME"
.B xti_udp
\- X/Open Transport Interface \- Corrigendum for User Datagram Protocol (UDP) Conformance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_ip.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_udp.h>
.HP
.BI "int " udp_xtistr " = t_open(" \fR\*(lq/dev/udp\*(rq\fI ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This manual section describes the protocol-specific information that is
relevant for UDP transport providers.  This section also describes the
protocol-specific information that is relevant when UDP services are provided
over an IP network using UDP.
.PP
This section also defines the data structures and constants required for UDP
transport providers that are exposed through the
.B <xti_udp.h>
header file.
.SH "ADDRESS FORMAT"
.PP
The UDP address format is structured as follows:
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Options are formatted according to the
.B t_opthdr
structure as described in
.BR xti (3).
An UDP transport provider compliant to this specification supports none, all
or any subset of the options defined here.  An implementation may restrict the
use of any of these options by offering them only in a priviledged read-only
mode.
.PP
An UDP transport provider supports two levels of options.  These two levels
are described below.
.SS "T_INET_IP"
.PP
Options within this level are specific to the Internet Protocol (IP) and are
common to all the protocol levels in IP.  For more information, see
.BR xti_ip (3).
.PP
The options defined with the option level
.B T_INET_IP
are as follows:
.SS "T_INET_UDP"
.PP
Options within this level are specific to the User Datagram
Protocol (UDP) yet are used by protocol levels using UDP transport.
.PP
The options defined with the option level
.B T_INET_UDP
are as follows:
.TP 12
.B T_UDP_CHECKSUM
.SH FUNCTIONS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_accept\fR(3)
.PP
.B XTI-UDP
only supports connection-less mode.  This XTI library call will return
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_bind\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_close\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_connect\fR(3)
.PP
.B XTI-UDP
only supports connection-less mode.  This XTI library call will return
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_getinfo\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_listen\fR(3)
.PP
.B XTI-UDP
only supports connection-less mode.  This XTI library call will return
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_open\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_optmgmt\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvconnect\fR(3)
.PP
.B XTI-UDP
only supports connection-less mode.  This XTI library call will return
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvdis\fR(3)
.PP
.B XTI-UDP
only supports connection-less mode.  This XTI library call will return
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcv\fR(3), \fBt_rcvv\fR(3)
.PP
.B XTI-UDP
only supports connection-less mode.  This XTI library call will return
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvreldata\fR(3)
.PP
.B XTI-UDP
only supports connection-less mode.  This XTI library call will return
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvrel\fR(3)
.PP
.B XTI-UDP
only supports connection-less mode.  This XTI library call will return
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvudata\fR(3), \fBt_rcvvudata\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_rcvuderr\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_snddis\fR(3)
.PP
.B XTI-UDP
only supports connection-less mode.  This XTI library call will return
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_snd\fR(3), \fBt_sndv\fR(3)
.PP
.B XTI-UDP
only supports connection-less mode.  This XTI library call will return
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_sndreldata\fR(3)
.PP
.B XTI-UDP
only supports connection-less mode.  This XTI library call will return
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_sndrel\fR(3)
.PP
.B XTI-UDP
only supports connection-less mode.  This XTI library call will return
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ].
.\"
.\"
.SS t_sndudata\fR(3), \fBt_sndvudata\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS t_unbind\fR(3)
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "CAVEATS"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.BR xti (3),
.BR xnet (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "DEVICES"
.PP
There is one UDP device providing the Transport Provider Interface that
provide UDP conforming TPI devices as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP 12
.I /dev/udp
For more information on the TPI UDP device, see
.BR udp (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "VERSIONS"
.PP
The
.B UDP-TPI
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
stack.
This is an unofficial Corrigendum to XNS 5.2 Revision 2.
.[
xns
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
