@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: prerequisites.texi,v 0.9.2.4 2007/03/17 08:32:02 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/17 08:32:02 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The quickest and easiest way to ensure that all prerequisites are met is to download and install
this package from within the @cite{OpenSS7 Master Package},
@command{openss7-@value{VERSION_OPENSS7}}, instead of separately.

Prerequisites for the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package are as follows:

@ignore
@itemize @bullet
@item
A fairly LSB compliant GNU/Linux distribution.@footnote{See @refman{GNU/Linux Distributions}, for
more information.}

@item
Linux 2.4 or 2.6 kernel (2.4.10 - 2.4.27) or (2.6.3 - 2.6.18)

@item
glibc2 or better.

@item
GNU info (for info files).

@item
GNU groff (for man pages).@footnote{If you are using a Debian release, please make sure to install
the groff extension package (@samp{groff_ext}), as it contains the @command{refer} or
@command{grefer} commands necessary for including references in the manual pages.}

@item
OpenSS7 Linux Fast-STREAMS
(@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}.tar.bz2,, streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}
or better)@footnote{Although this an other OpenSS7 STREAMS packages will build and install with
Linux STREAMS (LiS), @b{Linux STREAMS (LiS) is deprecated and cannot be supported because it is full
of bugs!}}

@item
OpenSS7 STREAMS Compatibility Modules
(@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}.tar.bz2,, strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}} or better)

@item
OpenSS7 STREAMS XNS
(@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}.tar.bz2,, strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}} or better)

@item
OpenSS7 STREAMS XTI/TLI Library
(@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}.tar.bz2,, strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}} or better)

@item
OpenSS7 STREAMS NSL Library
(@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strnsl-@value{VERSION_STRNSL}.tar.bz2,, strnsl-@value{VERSION_STRNSL}} or better)

@item
OpenSS7 STREAMS Sockets Library
(@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strsock-@value{VERSION_STRSOCK}.tar.bz2,, strsock-@value{VERSION_STRSOCK}} or better)

@item
OpenSS7 STREAMS INET
(@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}.tar.bz2,, strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}} or better)

@item
OpenSS7 STREAMS SCTP
(@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}.tar.bz2,, strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}} or better)

@item
OpenSS7 STREAMS Channels
(@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strchan-@value{VERSION_STRCHAN}.tar.bz2,, strchan-@value{VERSION_STRCHAN}} or better)

@item
OpenSS7 STREAMS ISO
(@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/striso-@value{VERSION_STRISO}.tar.bz2,, striso-@value{VERSION_STRISO}} or better)

@item
OpenSS7 STREAMS ISDN
(@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strisdn-@value{VERSION_STRISDN}.tar.bz2,, strisdn-@value{VERSION_STRISDN}} or better)

@item
OpenSS7 STREAMS SS7
(@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strss7-@value{VERSION_STRSS7}.tar.bz2,, strss7-@value{VERSION_STRSS7}} or better)

@item
OpenSS7 STREAMS SIGTRAN
(@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/sigtran-@value{VERSION_SIGTRA}.tar.bz2,, sigtran-@value{VERSION_SIGTRA}} or better)

@item
OpenSS7 STREAMS VoIP
(@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strvoip-@value{VERSION_STRVOIP}.tar.bz2,, strvoip-@value{VERSION_STRVOIP}} or better)
@end itemize
@end ignore

@enumerate 1
@item
@cite{Linux} distribution, somewhat @cite{Linux Standards Base} compliant, with a 2.4 or 2.6 kernel
and the appropriate tool chain for compiling out-of-tree kernel modules.  Most recent @cite{Linux}
distributions are usable out of the box, but some development packages must be installed.  For more
information, see @refman{Compatibility}.

@multitable @columnfractions 0.05 0.95
@item @tab @minus{}
A fairly LSB compliant GNU/Linux distribution.@footnote{See @refman{GNU/Linux Distributions}, for
more information.}
@item @tab @minus{}
Linux 2.4 kernel (2.4.10 - 2.4.27), or
@item @tab @minus{}
Linux 2.6 kernel (2.6.3 - 2.6.18);
@item @tab @minus{}
glibc2 or better.
@item @tab @minus{}
GNU info (for info files).
@item @tab @minus{}
GNU groff (for man pages).@footnote{If you are using a Debian release, please make sure to install
the groff extension package (@samp{groff_ext}), as it contains the @command{refer} or
@command{grefer} commands necessary for including references in the manual pages.}
@end multitable
@end enumerate

(Note: If you acquired @command{@value{PACKAGE}} a part of the @cite{OpenSS7 Master Package}, then
the dependencies listed below will already have been met by unpacking the master package.)

@enumerate 2
@item
@cite{OpenSS7 Linux Fast-STREAMS},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}.tar.bz2, streams-@value{VERSION_STREAMS}}.
@footnote{Although, at one time, this package supported @cite{LiS}, @cite{LiS} is now deprecated and
unsupported.}

@item
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS Compatibility Modules},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}.tar.bz2, strcompat-@value{VERSION_STRCOMPAT}}.
@ignore

@item
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS Utilities},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strutil-@value{VERSION_STRUTIL}.tar.bz2, strutil-@value{VERSION_STRUTIL}}.
(Optional.)

@item
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS Binary Compatibility},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/stbcm-@value{VERSION_STRBCM}.tar.bz2, stbcm-@value{VERSION_STRBCM}}.
(Optional.)

@item
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS Terminals},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strtty-@value{VERSION_STRTTY}.tar.bz2, strtty-@value{VERSION_STRTTY}}.
(Optional.)

@end ignore
@item
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS XNS},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}.tar.bz2, strxns-@value{VERSION_STRXNS}}.

@item
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS XTI/TLI},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}.tar.bz2, strxnet-@value{VERSION_STRXNET}}.

@item
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAM Network Services Library},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strnsl-@value{VERSION_STRNSL}.tar.bz2, strnsl-@value{VERSION_STRNSL}}.
(Optional.)

@item
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS Sockets},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strsock-@value{VERSION_STRSOCK}.tar.bz2, strsock-@value{VERSION_STRSOCK}}.
(Optional.)

@item
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS INET},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}.tar.bz2, strinet-@value{VERSION_STRINET}}.

@item
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS SCTP},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}.tar.bz2, strsctp-@value{VERSION_STRSCTP}}.

@item
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS Channels},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strchan-@value{VERSION_STRCHAN}.tar.bz2, striso-@value{VERSION_STRCHAN}}.

@item
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS ISO},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/striso-@value{VERSION_STRISO}.tar.bz2, striso-@value{VERSION_STRISO}}.
@ignore

@item
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS ISDN},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strisdn-@value{VERSION_STRISDN}.tar.bz2, strisdn-@value{VERSION_STRISDN}}.

@item
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS SS7},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strss7-@value{VERSION_STRSS7}.tar.bz2, strss7-@value{VERSION_STRSS7}}.

@item
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS SIGTRAN},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/sigtran-@value{VERSION_SIGTRAN}.tar.bz2, sigtran-@value{VERSION_SIGTRAN}}.

@item
@cite{OpenSS7 STREAMS VoIP},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/strvoip-@value{VERSION_STRVOIP}.tar.bz2, strvoip-@value{VERSION_STRVOIP}}.

@item
@cite{OpenSS7 Sockets SCTP},
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/sctp-@value{VERSION_SCTP}.tar.bz2, sctp-@value{VERSION_SCTP}}.
(Optional.)
@end ignore
@end enumerate
