@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: tree.texi,v 0.9.2.1 2006/10/16 10:48:52 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/16 10:48:52 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c $Log: tree.texi,v $
@c Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/16 10:48:52  brian
@c - added new package files
@c
@c =========================================================================

@ignore
@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following kernel modules files in the kernel modules
directory @file{lib/modules/@value{_kversion}/}:

@table @file
@item modules.@value{PACKAGE}
@end table

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following kernel modules files in the kernel modules
directory @file{lib/modules/@value{_kversion}/@value{PACKAGE}/}:

@table @file
@end table

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following header files in the system include directory
@file{usr/include/@value{PACKAGE}/}:

@table @file
@end table

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following test programs in the system libexec directory
@file{usr/libexec/}:

@table @file
@end table

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following utility programs in the system binary directory
@file{usr/sbin/}:

@table @file
@item strtty_mknod
This binary conatins a script for making device nodes for the @dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} package.
@end table

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following info files in the system info directory
@file{usr/share/info/}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.info
@itemx @value{PACKAGE}.info-1
@itemx @value{PACKAGE}.info-2
@itemx @value{PACKAGE}.info-3
@itemx @value{PACKAGE}.info-4
These files contain this manual in info format.
@end table

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following manpage macro and reference database files in the
system man directory @file{usr/share/man/}:

@table @file
@item @value{PACKAGE}.macros
This file contain manual page macro definitions included by the manual pages included in the
package.
@item @value{PACKAGE}.refs
This file contains a reference database referenced by the manual pages included in the package.
@end table

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME}} places the following manual pages in the system man directory
@file{usr/share/man/}:
@end ignore
