@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi noai
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: compat.texi,v 1.1.2.3 2011-01-12 03:37:38 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
@c under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
@c any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
@c Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
@c copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
@c Documentation License".
@c
@c Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without
@c modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby
@c granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
@c permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7
@c Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
@c distribution of this documentation or its contents without specific,
@c written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation
@c about the suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is
@c provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
@c 
@c Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
@c results, provided the printed document carries copying permission notice
@c identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this
@c paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
@c 
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
@c DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
@c FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE
@c CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE
@c IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY
@c PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
@c CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
@c USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
@c OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
@c THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS
@c THEREOF.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
@c taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
@c licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
@c source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2011-01-12 03:37:38 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node GNU/Linux Distributions
@subsection GNU/Linux Distributions
@cindex GNU/Linux Distributions

@dfn{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} is compatible with the following @dfn{Linux}
distributions:@footnote{Items marked as @samp{TBD} are scheduled to have support deprecated.  That
is, in a future release, the distributions marked @samp{TBD} will not longer be validated before
release.}

@itemize @bullet
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 3.4 (centos34) TBD
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 4.0 (centos4) TBD
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 4.92 (centos49) TBD
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 5.0 (centos5)
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 5.1 (centos51)
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 5.2 (centos52)
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 5.3 (centos53)
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 5.4 (centos54)
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 5.5 (centos55)
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 5.6 (centos56)
@item CentOS Enterprise Linux 6.0 (centos60)
@item Debian 3.0r2 Woody (deb3.0) TBD
@item Debian 3.1r0a Sarge (deb3.1) TBD
@item Debian 4.0r1 Etch (deb4.0)
@item Debian 4.0r2 Etch (deb4.0)
@item Debian 4.0r3 Etch (deb4.0)
@item Debian 5.0 Lenny (deb5.0)
@item Debian 6.0 Squeeze (deb6.0)
@item Fedora Core 1 (FC1) TBD
@item Fedora Core 2 (FC2) TBD
@item Fedora Core 3 (FC3) TBD
@item Fedora Core 4 (FC4) TBD
@item Fedora Core 5 (FC5) TBD
@item Fedora Core 6 (FC6) TBD
@item Fedora 7 (FC7)
@item Fedora 8 (FC8)
@item Fedora 9 (FC9)
@item Fedora 10 (FC10)
@item Fedora 11 (FC11)
@item Fedora 12 (FC12)
@item Fedora 13 (FC13)
@item Fedora 14 (FC14)
@item Fedora 15 (FC15)
@item Gentoo 2006.1 (untested) TBD
@item Gentoo 2007.1 (untested) TBD
@item Lineox 4.026 (LEL4) TBD
@item Lineox 4.053 (LEL4) TBD
@item Mandrakelinux 9.2 (MDK92) TBD
@item Mandrakelinux 10.0 (MDK100) TBD
@item Mandrakelinux 10.1 (MDK101) TBD
@item Mandriva Linux LE2005 (MDK102) TBD
@item Mandriva Linux LE2006 (MDK103) TBD
@item Mandriva One (untested)
@item RedHat Linux 7.2 (RH7)
@item RedHat Linux 7.3 (RH7)
@item RedHat Linux 8.0 (RH8) TBD
@item RedHat Linux 9 (RH9) TBD
@item RedHat Enterprise Linux 3.0 (EL3) TBD
@item RedHat Enterprise Linux 4 (EL4) TBD
@item RedHat Enterprise Linux 5 (EL5)
@item RedHat Enterprise Linux 6 (EL6)
@item SuSE 8.0 Professional (SuSE8.0) TBD
@item SuSE 9.1 Personal (SuSE9.1) TBD
@item SuSE 9.2 Professional (SuSE9.2) TBD
@item SuSE OpenSuSE (SuSEOSS) TBD
@item SuSE 10.0 (SuSE10.0) TBD
@item SuSE 10.1 (SuSE10.1) TBD
@item SuSE 10.2 (SuSE10.2) TBD
@item SuSE 10.3 (SuSE10.3) TBD
@item SuSE 11.0 (SuSE11.0)
@item SuSE 11.1 (SuSE11.1)
@item SuSE 11.2 (SuSE11.2)
@item SuSE 11.3 (SuSE11.3)
@item SuSE 11.4 (SuSE11.4)
@item SLES 9 (SLES9) TBD
@item SLES 9 SP2 (SLES9) TBD
@item SLES 9 SP3 (SLES9) TBD
@item SLES 10 (SLES10)
@item SLES 10 SP1 (SLES10)
@item SLES 10 SP2 (SLES10)
@item SLES 11 (SLES11)
@item SLES 11 SP1 (SLES11)
@item Ubuntu 5.10 (ubu5.10) TBD
@item Ubuntu 6.03 LTS (ubu6.03) TBD
@item Ubuntu 6.10 (ubu6.10) TBD
@item Ubuntu 7.04 (ubu7.04) TBD
@item Ubuntu 7.10 (ubu7.10)
@item Ubuntu 8.04 (ubu8.04)
@item Ubuntu 8.10 (ubu8.10)
@item Ubuntu 9.04 (ubu9.04)
@item Ubuntu 9.10 (ubu9.10)
@item Ubuntu 10.04 (ubu10.04)
@item Ubuntu 10.10 (ubu10.10)
@item WhiteBox Enterprise Linux 3.0 (WBEL3) TBD
@item WhiteBox Enterprise Linux 4 (WBEL4) TBD
@end itemize

When installing from the tarball (@pxref{Installing the Tar Ball}), this distribution is probably
compatible with a much broader array of distributions than those listed above.  These are the
distributions against which the current maintainer creates and tests builds.

@node Linux Kernel
@subsection Kernel
@cindex Kernel

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package compiles as @dfn{Linux} kernel modules.  It is not
necessary to patch the @dfn{Linux} kernel to build or use the package.@footnote{At a later date, it
is possible to move this package into the kernel, however, with continued resistance to STREAMS from
within the @dfn{Linux} developer community, this is currently unlikely.} Nor do you have to
recompile your kernel to build or use the package.  OpenSS7 packages use @manpage{autoconf(1)}
scripts to adapt the package source to your existing kernel.  The package builds and runs nicely
against production kernels from the distributions listed above.  Rather than relying on kernel
versions, the @manpage{autoconf(1)} scripts interrogate the kernel for specific features and
variants to better adapt to distribution production kernels that have had patches applied over the
official @url{http://www.kernel.org/, kernel.org} sources.

@subsubsection Compatible Kernels

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is compatible with 2.4 kernel series after 2.4.10 and has
been tested up to and including 2.4.33.  It has been tested from 2.6.3 up to and including 2.6.32
(with @cite{RHEL 6.0}, @cite{SLES 11.1} and @cite{Debian  6.0} patch sets).  Please note that your
mileage may vary if you use a kernel more recent than 2.6.32: it is difficult to anticipate changes
that kernel developers will make in the future.  Many kernels in the 2.6 series now vary widely by
release version and if you encounter problems, try a kernel within the supported series.

@subsubheading SMP Kernels

UP validation testing for kernels is performed on all supported architectures.  SMP validation
testing was initially performed on UP machines, as well as on an Intel 3.0GHz Pentium IV 630 with
HyperThreading enabled (2x).  Because HyperThreading is not as independent as multiple CPUs, SMP
validation testing was limited.  Current releases have been tested on dual 1.8GHz Xeon HP servers
(2x), 3.0GHz Pentium D (2x), dual quad-core SunFire (8x) servers and dual hex-core Xeon servers
(12x).

@subsubheading XEN Kernels

It should be noted that, while the packages will configure, build and install against XEN kernels,
that problems running validation test suites against XEN kernels has been reported.  @emph{XEN
kernels are explicitly not supported.}  This may change at some point in the future if someone
really requires running OpenSS7 under a XEN kernel.

@subsubsection Linux Kernel Upgrades

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package compiles as @dfn{Linux} kernel modules.  Previously, kernel
modules for each and every installed kernel were required.  This is no longer the case.  The kernel
modules installed by the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package now support weak updates across a wide
range of kernels in the series.  This means that it is normally only necessary to build and install
the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} kernel modules for one kernel in a series.  This is true for all
supported 2.6 kernel distributions (and likely for others as well).

@node Linux Architectures
@subsection Architectures
@cindex Architectures

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package compiles and installs on a wide range of architectures.
Although it is believed that the package will work on all architectures supported by the Linux
kernel being used, validation testing has only been performed with the following architectures:

@itemize
@item ix86
@item x86_64
@item ppc (MPC 860)
@item ppc64
@end itemize

32-bit compatibility validation testing is performed on all 64-bit architectures supporting 32-bit
compatibility.  If you would like to validate an OpenSS7 package on a specific machine architecture,
you are welcome to sponsor the project with a test machine.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
