@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi noai
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: funding.texi,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 11:11:36 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
@c under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
@c any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
@c Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
@c copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
@c Documentation License".
@c
@c Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without
@c modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby
@c granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
@c permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7
@c Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
@c distribution of this documentation or its contents without specific,
@c written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation
@c about the suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is
@c provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
@c 
@c Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
@c results, provided the printed document carries copying permission notice
@c identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this
@c paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
@c 
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
@c DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
@c FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE
@c CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE
@c IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY
@c PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
@c CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
@c USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
@c OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
@c THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS
@c THEREOF.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
@c taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
@c licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
@c source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 11:11:36 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

As with most open source projects, this project would not have been possible without the valiant
efforts and productive software of the @cite{@uref{http://www.fsf.org/,, Free Software Foundation}},
the @cite{@uref{http://www.kernel.org/,, Linux Kernel Community}}, and the open source software
movement at large.

@node Sponsors
@unnumberedsubsec Sponsors
@cindex sponsors

Funding for completion of the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package was
provided in part by:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .02 .93
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/,, Monavacon Limited}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,, OpenSS7 Corporation}
@end multitable

@noindent
Additional funding for @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, The OpenSS7 Project} was provided by:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .02 .43 .05 .02 .43
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/,, Monavacon Limited}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,, OpenSS7 Corporation}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.airnet.com/,, AirNet Communications}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.comverse.com/,, Comverse Ltd.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.eservglobal.com/,, eServGlobal (NZ) Pty Ltd.}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.excel.com/,, Excel Telecommunications}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.francetelecom.fr/,, France Telecom}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.geolink.com/,, GeoLink SA}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.hob.de/,, HOB International}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.lmco.com/,, Lockheed Martin Co.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.motorola.com/,, Motorola}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.netcentrex.com/,, NetCentrex S. A.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.newnet.com/,, Newnet Communications, Inc.}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.nortel.com/,, Nortel Networks}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.pt.com/,, Peformance Technologies, Inc.}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.sonus.com/,, Sonus Networks Inc.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.ss8.com/,, SS8 Networks Inc.}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.sysmaster.com/,, SysMaster Corporation}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.tecore.com/,, TECORE}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.tumsan.fi/,, Tumsan Oy}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.verisign.com/,, Verisign}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.vodare.com/,, Vodare Ltd.}
@end multitable

@node Contributors
@unnumberedsubsec Contributors
@cindex contributors

The primary contributor to the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is
@email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}.  The following is a list of notable
contributors to @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, The OpenSS7 Project}:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .45 .05 .45
@item @tab @minus{} Per Berquist
@tab @tab @minus{} Kutluk Testicioglu
@item @tab @minus{} John Boyd
@tab @tab @minus{} John Wenker
@item @tab @minus{} Chuck Winters
@tab @tab @minus{} Angel Diaz
@item @tab @minus{} Peter Courtney
@iftex
@tab @tab @minus{} J@'er@'emy Compostella
@end iftex
@ifnottex
@tab @tab @minus{} Jérémy Compostella
@end ifnottex
@item @tab @minus{} Tom Chandler
@tab @tab @minus{} Sylvain Chouleur
@item @tab @minus{} Gurol Ackman
@tab @tab @minus{} Christophe Nolibos
@item @tab @minus{} Pierre Crepieux
@tab @tab @minus{} Bryan Shupe
@item @tab @minus{} Christopher Lydick
@tab @tab @minus{} D. Milanovic
@item @tab @minus{} Omer Tunali
@tab @tab @minus{} Others
@end multitable

@node Supporters
@unnumberedsubsec Supporters
@cindex supporters

Over the years a number of organizations have provided continued support in the
form of assessment, inspection, testing, validation and certification.

@menu
* Telecommunications::
* Aerospace and Military::
* Financial, Business and Security.Financial:
* Education, Health Care and Nuclear Power.Education:
@end menu

@node Telecommunications
@unnumberedsubsubsec Telecommunications

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .02 .43 .05 .02 .43
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.2its.com/,, Integrated Telecom Solutions}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.aastra.com/,, AASTRA}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.accuris-networks.com/,, Accuris Networks}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.aculab.com/,, Aculab}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.adax.com/,, Adax}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.aepona.com/,, AEPONA}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.airnet.com/,, AirNet Communications}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.airwidesolutions.com/,, Airwide Solutions}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.alacre.com/,, Alacre}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.alcatel.com/,, Alcatel}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.alcatel-lucent.com/,, Alcatel-Lucent}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.altobridge.com/,, Altobridge}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.anam.com/,, Anam}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.apertio.com/,, Apertio (now Nokia)}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.aptalaska.com/,, Alaska Power & Telephone}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.aricent.com/,, Aricent}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.artesyncp.com/,, Artesyn (now Emerson)}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.arthus-tech.com/,, Arthus Technologies}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.bhartitelesoft.com/,, Bharti Telesoft}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.bubblemotion.com/,, BubbleMotion}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.ccpu.com/,, Continuous Computing (Trillium)}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.cellnext.com/,, Cellnext Solutions Limited}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.cisco.com/,, Cisco}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.codentnetworks.com/,, Codent Networks}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.cogeco.ca/,, Cogeco Cable Inc.}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.comverse.com/,, Comverse Ltd.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.condornetworks.com/,, Condor Networks}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.coraltele.com/,, Coral Telecom}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.corecess.com/,, Corecess}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.corelatus.com/,, Corelatus}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.cosini.com/,, Cosini}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.dataconnection.com/,, Data Connection}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.datacraft-asia.com/,, Datacraft}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.datatekcorp.com/,, Datatek Applications Inc.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.datatronics.es/,, Datatronics}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.dialogic.com/,, Dialogic}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.digium.com/,, Digium}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.druidsoftware.com/,, Druid Software}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.dtag.de/,, DTAG (Deutsche Telecom AG)}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.empirix.com/,, Empirix}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.engageinc.com/,, Engage Communication Inc.}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.ericsson.com/,, Ericsson}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.eservglobal.com/,, eServGlobal (NZ) Pty Ltd.}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.etsi.org/,, ETSI}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.excel.com/,, Excel Telecommunications}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.flextronicssoftware.com/,, Flextronics (now Aricent)}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.francetelecom.fr/,, France Telecom}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.geminimobile.com/,, Gemini Mobile Technologies}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.geolink.com/,, Geolink (now SeaMobile)}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.globaledgesoft.com/,, Global Edge}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.huawei.com/,, Huawei}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.ibsyscanada.com/,, IBSYS Canada}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.integralaccess.com/,, Integral Access (now Telco Systems)}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.integrat.com/,, Integrat Mobile Aggregation Services}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.kineto.com/,, Kineto Wireless}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.lucent.com/,, Lucent}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.maestrocomms.com/,, Maestro Communications}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.mci.com/,, MCI}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.mindspeed.com/,, Mindspeed}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.mobis-s.com/,, Mobis}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.mobixell.com/,, Mobixell}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.motivity.ca/,, Motivity Telecom, Inc.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.motorola.com/,, Motorola}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.mpathix.com/,, Mpathix Inc.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.m-wise.com/,, m-Wise Inc.}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.myriadgroup.com/,, Myriad Group}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.net2phone.com/,, Net2Phone} 
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.netcentrex.com/,, NetCentrex S. A.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.nettest.com/,, NetTest A/S (now Anritsu)} 
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.neuvatel.com/,, NeuvaTel PCS} 
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.newnet.com/,, Newnet Communications, Inc.}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.nmss.com/,, NMS (now Dialogic)} 
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.noblesys.com/,, Noble Systems Corporation} 
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.nokia.com/,, Nokia} 
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.nortelnetworks.com/,, Nortel Networks} 
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.onebox.com/,, j2 Global Communications, Inc.} 
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.onmobile.com/,, OnMobile} 
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.orange.co.uk/,, Orange} 
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.ouroboros.fr/,, Ouroboros} 
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.p3-group.com/,, P3 Solutions GmbH} 
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.primaltech.com/,, Primal Technologies Inc.} 
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.propolys.com/,, Propolys Pte Ltd.} 
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.pt.com/,, Peformance Technologies, Inc.}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.pulsevoice.com/,, Pulse Voice Inc.} 
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.rcom.com/,, Reliance Communications} 
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.roamwareinc.com/,, Roamware Inc.} 
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.sonorys.at/,, SONORYS Technology GmbH} 
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.sonus.com/,, Sonus Networks Inc.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.spider.com/,, Spider Ltd. (now Emerson)} 
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.ss8.com/,, SS8 Networks Inc.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.steadycom.com/,, Oasis Systems}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.stratus.com/,, Stratus}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.stratus.com/,, Stratus Technologies Bermuda Ltd.}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.swapcom.fr/,, Sicap AG}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.switchlab.com/,, Switchlab Ltd.}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.synap.se/,, Synapse Mobile Networks SA}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.sysmaster.com/,, SysMaster Corporation}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.tatacommunications.com/,, Tata Communications}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.tecore.com/,, Tecore}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.teknotelecom.com/,, Tekno Telecom LLC}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.telcordia.com/,, Telcordia}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.telecomitalia.it/,, Telecom Italia}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.teledesign.co.uk/,, Teledesign}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.telemetrics.com/,, Telemetrics Inc.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.telnor.com/,, Telnor}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.te-systems.de/,, TE-Systems}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.ti.com/,, Texas Instruments Inc.}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.tumsan.fi/,, Tumsan Oy}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.ulticom.com/,, Ulticom}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.vanu.com/,, Vanu Inc.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.vector-communications.net/,, Vecto Communications SRL}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.veraznetworks.com/,, Veraz Networks}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.verisign.com/,, VeriSign}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.vodare.com/,, Vodare Ltd.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.vsenet.de/,, VSE NET GmbH}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.wanware.com/,, The Software Group Limited}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.wingcon.com/,, WINGcon GmbH}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.wipro.com/,, Wipro Technologies}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.xentel.com/,, Xentel Inc.}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.ycom.ch/,, YCOM SA}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.zte.com.cn/,, ZTE Corporation}
@end multitable

@node Aerospace and Military
@unnumberedsubsubsec Aerospace and Military

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .02 .43 .05 .02 .43
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.advtechme.com/,, Advanced Technologies}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.altobridge.com/,, Altobridge}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.altobridge.com/,, Altobridge}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.bbn.com/,, BBN (Bolt@comma{} Beranek@comma{} and Neuman)}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.arinc.com/,, ARINC}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.boldonjames.com/,, Boldon James}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.atos-origin.com/,, ATOS Origin}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.lmco.com/,, Lockheed Martin Co.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.boeing.com/,, Boeing}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.ngc.com/,, Northrop Grumman Corporation}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.boldonjames.com/,, Boldon James}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.qinetiq.com/,, QinetiQ}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.crna-n.aviation-civile.gouv.fr/,, CRNA}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.saabgroup.com/,, SAAB}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.dgac.fr/,, DSNA-DGAC}
@iftex
@footnote{La Direction des Services de la Navigation A@'erienne - La Direction G@'en@'eral de l'Aviation Civile}
@end iftex
@ifnottex
@footnote{La Direction des Services de la Navigation Aérienne - La Direction Général de l'Aviation Civile}
@end ifnottex
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.sandia.gov/,, Sandia National Laboratories}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.dlr.de/,, DLR}
@iftex
@footnote{Deutsches Zentrum f@"ur Luft- unde Raumfarht}
@end iftex
@ifnottex
@footnote{Deutsches Zentrum für Luft- unde Raumfarht}
@end ifnottex
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.thalesgroup.com/,, Thales}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.dsna-dti.aviation-civile.gouv.fr/,, DSNA-DTI}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.wpafb.af.mil/,, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.egis-avia.com/,, Egis-Avia (Sofreavia)}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.metaslash.com/,, MetaSlash, Inc.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.sofreavia.fr/,, Sofreavia}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.tc.faa.gov/,, FAA WJHTC}@footnote{Federal Aviation Administration - William J. Hughes Technical Center}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.thalesatm.com/,, Thales ATM/Air Systems}
@end multitable

@node Financial
@unnumberedsubsubsec Financial, Business and Security

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .02 .43 .05 .02 .43
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.alebra.com/,, Alebra}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.alebra.com/,, Alebra}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.atdesk.com/,, Automated Trading Desk (now Citi)}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.boldonjames.com/,, Boldon James}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.bancocredicoop.coop/,, Banco Credicoop}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.fujitsu-siemens.com/,, Fujitsu-Seimens}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.bemac.com/,, BeMac}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.futuresoft.com/,, FutureSoft}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.boldonjames.com/,, Boldon James}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.gsx.com/,, GSX}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.cybersource.com/,, CyberSource Corporation}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.hob.de/,, HOB International}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.fujitsu-siemens.com/,, Fujitsu-Seimens}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.hp.com/,, HP (Hewlett-Packard)}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.futuresoft.com/,, FutureSoft}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.ibm.com/,, IBM}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.gcom.com/,, Gcom, Inc.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.gsx.com/,, GSX}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.hob.de/,, HOB International}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.hp.com/,, HP (Hewlett-Packard)}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.ibm.com/,, IBM}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.lightbridge.com/,, Lightbride (now CyberSource)}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.mastercard.com/,, MasterCard}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.alertlogic.com/,, Alert Logic}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.netex.com/,, Network Executive Software Inc.}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.apani.com/,, Apani}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.packetware.com/,, Packetware Inc.} 
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.bemac.com/,, BeMac}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.packetware.com/,, Packetware Inc.} 
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.ercom.fr/,, ERCOM}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.prism.com/,, Prism Holdings Ltd.} 
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.hitech.com/,, Hitech Systems}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.s2systems.com/,, S2 Systems (now ACI)} 
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.imetrik.com/,, iMETRIK}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.symicron.com/,, Symicron Computer Communications Limited}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.intrado.com/,, Intrado Inc.}
@end multitable

@node Education
@unnumberedsubsubsec Education, Health Care and Nuclear Power

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .02 .43 .05 .02 .43
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.computer.org/,, IEEE Computer Society}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.ateb.com/,, Ateb}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.enst.fr/,, ENST}
@iftex
@footnote{Ecole Nationale Sup@'erieure des T@'el@'ecommunications}
@end iftex
@ifnottex
@footnote{Ecole Nationale Supérieure des Télécommunications}
@end ifnottex
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.mandexin.com/,, Mandexin Systems Corporation}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.htw-saarland.de/,, HTW-Saarland}
@iftex
@footnote{Hochschule f@"ur Technik und Wirtschaft des Saarlandes}
@end iftex
@ifnottex
@footnote{Hochschule für Technik und Wirtschaft des Saarlandes}
@end ifnottex
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.k-state.edu/,, Kansas State University}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.areva-np.com/,, Areva NP}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.uncc.edu/,, University of North Carolina Charlotte}
@tab @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.cern.com/,, European Organization for Nuclear Research}
@end multitable

@node Agencies
@unnumberedsubsec Agencies
@cindex agencies

It would be difficult for the OpenSS7 Project to attain the conformance and
certifications that it has without the free availability of specifications
documents and standards from standards bodies and industry associations.  In
particular, the following:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .02 .93
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.3gpp.org/,, 3GPP (Third Generation Partnership Project)}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.atmforum.org/,, ATM Forum}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.eia.org/,, EIA/TIA (Electronic Industries Alliance)}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.etsi.org/,, ETSI (European Telecommunications Standards Institute)}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.icao.org/,, ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organization)}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.ieee.org/,, IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers)}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.ietf.org/,, IETF (The Internet Engineering Task Force)}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.iso.org/,, ISO (International Organization for Standardization)}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.itu.int/,, ITU (International Telecommunications Union)}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.msforum.org/,, Mulutiservices Forum}
@item @tab @bullet{} @tab @uref{http://www.opengroup.org/,, The Open Group}
@end multitable

Of these, ICAO, ISO, IEEE and EIA have made at least some documents publicly
available.  ANSI is notably missing from the list: at one time draft documents
were available from ANSI (ATIS), but that was curtailed some years ago.
Telecordia does not release any standards publicly.  Hopefully these
organizations will see the light and realize, as the others have, that to remain
current as a standards organization in today's digital economy requires
providing individuals with free access to documents.

