@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi noai
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id$
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
@c under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
@c any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
@c Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
@c copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
@c Documentation License".
@c
@c Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without
@c modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby
@c granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
@c permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7
@c Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
@c distribution of this documentation or its contents without specific,
@c written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation
@c about the suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is
@c provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
@c 
@c Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
@c results, provided the printed document carries copying permission notice
@c identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph (this
@c paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
@c 
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
@c DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
@c FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE
@c CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE
@c IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY
@c PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
@c OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
@c CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
@c USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
@c OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
@c THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS
@c THEREOF.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
@c taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
@c licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
@c source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c $Log$
@c =========================================================================

@c Define an index of primitives
@defcodeindex pr
@c Define an index of primitive values
@defcodeindex pv
@c Define an index of primitive error values
@defcodeindex pe
@c Define an index of protocol states
@defcodeindex st
@c Define an index of input-output controls
@defcodeindex ct
@c Define an index of manual pages.
@defcodeindex mp
@c Define an index of MIB objects.
@defcodeindex mo

@c frags out automake
@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for text, html and info
@syncodeindex pr cp
@syncodeindex pv cp
@syncodeindex pe cp
@syncodeindex st cp
@syncodeindex mp cp
@syncodeindex tp cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex ct cp
@syncodeindex mo cp
@c @end ifnottex

@iftex

@macro prim{name}
@code{\name\}@prindex \name\
@end macro

@macro pval{name}
@code{\name\}@pvindex \name\
@end macro

@macro perr{name}
@code{[\name\]}@peindex \name\
@end macro

@macro psta{name}
@code{\name\}@stindex \name\
@end macro

@macro parm{name}
@var{\name\}@vrindex \name\
@end macro

@macro pioc{name}
@code{\name\}@ctindex \name\
@end macro

@macro mobj{name}
@code{\name\}@moindex \name\
@end macro

@end iftex

@ifnottex
@c skip deep indexing for plain text, html and info
@c it messes up column with maximums (texinfo bug)

@macro prim{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro pval{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro perr{name}
@code{[\name\]}
@end macro

@macro psta{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro parm{name}
@var{\name\}
@end macro

@macro pioc{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@macro mobj{name}
@code{\name\}
@end macro

@end ifnottex

