'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ctimod.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/02/27 01:35:56 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/27 01:35:56 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ctimod.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/02/27 01:35:56  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/02/25 12:45:00  brian
.\" - added new files for release package
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database osr61.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so osr61.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CTIMOD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B ctimod
\- Dialogic DKI kernel module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP
.B insmod ctimod
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ctimod
is Dialogic\(rg kernel module that provides thin wrapper functions for Linux
kernel functions.  Its original purpose appears to be to replace a small
portion of the STREAMS DDI/DKI for use by the
.BR pmacd (4)
driver which is a non-STREAMS (basic Linux character device) driver.  For a
discussion of the relative merits of this approach, see
.BR pmacd (4).
.PP
.BR ctimod ,
in the deprecated
.I LiS
tradition, provides wrapper functions of the same name (prefixed by
.BR ctimod_ )
for Linux kernel functions.  Because calling conventions on these functions
are not carefully controlled, they to not constitute an ABI in the same
fashion as the
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
DDI/DKI and thus do not support binary module distribution.  (Note that the
Dialogic\(rg drivers are GPL so binary distribution might be a moot
consideration.)
Nevertheless, by wrapping Linux kernel functions, the modules provides a DKI
that is inherently non-portable.  The STREAMS DDI/DKI is superior in that its
base set of functions are provided by all SVR4 based systems.
.PP
For a list an discussion of the exported symbols provided by the
.B ctimod
kernel module, see the
.BR ctimod (9)
manual page.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
This is a port of the Dialogic\(rg Open System Release 6.1 version 239 GPL'ed
drivers to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
This is alpha-release software and has not been tested on any actual
Dialogic\(rg hardware to date (the problem being the lack of hardware with
which to test).
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
Devices provided by the
.B ctimod
driver are as follows:
.TP
.B /dev/streams/clone/ctimod
clone device for the
.B ctimod
driver under
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ctimod (9),
.BR dlgn (4),
.BR dvbm (4),
.BR gncfd (4),
.BR gpio (4),
.BR sctmr (4),
.BR mercd (4),
.BR pmacd (4),
.BR ctimod (4),
.BR osr61 (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B ctimod
has obvious bugs from inspection.
The penchant of the original GPL release for suppressing compiler warnings is
worrisome.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
These drivers should be compatible with OSR 6.1 Release 239.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Dialogic \(rg
specifications.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
This driver is part of the Springware support from earlier Dialogic\(rg
drivers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
