'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: gncfd.4.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/02/25 12:45:00 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/25 12:45:00 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: gncfd.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/02/25 12:45:00  brian
.\" - added new files for release package
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database osr61.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so osr61.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH GNCFD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B gncfd, gncfdDriver
\- Dialogic \fISTREAMS\fR device driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP
.BI "int " fd " = open(" \fR\(lq/dev/streams/clone/gncfd\(rq\fP ", " \fRO_RDWR\fP );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B gncfd
is the generic configuration driver that interfaces with the GNCFD Driver library (libgncf.so) and is
used to setup logical devices for the Springware boards.  The driver is invoked after firmware
download via the VOXCTL application.  After the logical devices are created (dxxxB1, dxxxB1C1,
etc.), the driver will start the board (enable interrupts).  VOXCTRL will create the
/usr/dialogic/cfg/.voxcfg file that contains all the logical device information given by the GNCFD
driver.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IOCTLS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
This is a port of the Dialogic\(rg Open System Release 6.1 version 239 GPL'ed
drivers to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
This is alpha-release software and has not been tested on any actual
Dialogic\(rg hardware to date (the problem being the lack of hardware with
which to test).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
Devices provided by the
.B gncfd
driver are as follows:
.TP
.B /dev/streams/clone/gncfd
clone device for the
.B gncfd
driver under
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR dlgn (4),
.BR dvbm (4),
.BR gncfd (4),
.BR gpio (4),
.BR sctmr (4),
.BR osr61 (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B gncfd
has obvious bugs from inspection.
The penchant of the original GPL release for suppressing compiler warnings is
worrisome.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
These drivers should be compatible with OSR 6.1 Release 239.
.PP
The device driver name,
.BR streams_gncfdDriver.ko ,
is somewhat non-standard for
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
drivers, but is also aliased to
.BR streams-gncfd " and " gncfd .
The non-standard name is for compatibility with the original OSR 6.1 from Dialogic.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Dialogic \(rg
specifications.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
This driver is part of the Springware support from earlier Dialogic\(rg
drivers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
