'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mercd.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/02/27 01:35:56 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/27 01:35:56 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mercd.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/02/27 01:35:56  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/02/25 12:45:00  brian
.\" - added new files for release package
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database osr61.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so osr61.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MERCD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B mercd
\- Dialogic \fISTREAMS\fR device driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP
.BI "int " fd " = open(" \fR\(lq/dev/streams/clone/mercd\(rq\fP ", " \fRO_RDWR\fP );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B mercd
driver is a STREAMS version of the DM3 (Dialogic\(rg Media III) firmware
driver modified for use with
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" ,
including the
.I Mercury
cards (and thus the name of the driver).
.PP
The DM3,
.BR mercd ,
driver is a
.I STREAMS
based device driver.  The
.B mercd
driver is based on the
Dialogic\(rg
Media III (a.k.a. DM3) architecutre.  The driver supports both the SRAM
protocol (used in the older products like DMVA) and the Werewolf (WW) protocol
(used in new platforms such as the DMVB/DMN160 boards) merged into one driver.
.PP
It appears that somewhere along the lifetime of this driver, its developers
decided to attempt to deviate from STREAMS and provide a legacy characeter
based interface to the driver.  That approach appears to simply increase
complexity, obviate the reuse possible using the STREAMS framework, and result
in a poorer overall implementation.
.PP
When compiled as a legacy character device driver, this driver uses the
.BR ctimod (4)
kernel module and the DKI described in
.BR ctimod (9).
This has portability issues as well and the approach simply introduces more
bugs.
.PP
This
.I OpenSS7 Project
modified version has been modified to run again as a STREAMS driver using the
DDI/DKI from
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
and the
.B STREAMS Compatibiltiy Modules
packages.
Dialogic\(rg
warns in their documentation, however, that this driver has not been
maintained as a STREAMS driver.  Your mileage may vary.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
This is a port of the Dialogic\(rg Open System Release 6.1 version 239 GPL'ed
drivers to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
This is alpha-release software and has not been tested on any actual
Dialogic\(rg hardware to date (the problem being the lack of hardware with
which to test).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
The driver is in the kernel module file,
.BR streams-mercd ,
however, it can also be loaded (see
.BR insmod (8))
using the aliases:
.BR mercd " and " streams-mercdDriver .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
Devices provided by the
.B mercd
driver are as follows:
.TP
.B /dev/streams/clone/mercd
clone device for the
.B mercd
driver under
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR dlgn (4),
.BR dvbm (4),
.BR gncfd (4),
.BR gpio (4),
.BR sctmr (4),
.BR mercd (4),
.BR pmacd (4),
.BR ctimod (4),
.BR osr61 (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B mercd
has obvious bugs from inspection.
The penchant of the original GPL release for suppressing compiler warnings is
worrisome.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
These drivers should be compatible with OSR 6.1 Release 239.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Dialogic \(rg
specifications.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
This driver is part of the Springware support from earlier Dialogic\(rg
drivers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
