'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: pmacd.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/02/27 01:35:56 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/27 01:35:56 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: pmacd.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/02/27 01:35:56  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/02/25 12:45:00  brian
.\" - added new files for release package
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database osr61.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so osr61.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH PMACD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B pmacd
\- Dialogic\(rg non-\fISTREAMS\fR IPT device driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP
.BI "int " fd " = open(" \fR\(lq/dev/pmacd\(rq\fP ", " \fRO_RDWR\fP );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B pmacd
is a non-STREAMS driver for the Dialogic\(rg IPT family of boards.
.PP
The packet media access card driver,
.BR pmacd ,
is a straightforward driver for the IPT family of boards based on Intelligent
Input-Output (I20) technology.  It provides all the driver interfaces, namely
the user, driver interfaces.  This driver only supports messaging based on the
IPT protocol and Streaming is not supported on the IPT boards.  This makes the
PMAC driver simple and efficient since there is not much processing required
at the driver level.  The driver uses DPC and a 40 millisecond timer.
.PP
The
.B pmacd
driver is the only Dialogic\(rg driver in the OSR 6.1 GPL driver release that
does not run as a STREAMS driver.  As a result, the driver reinvents the wheel
in a number of uninteresting ways: it reimplements the wait loops and queueing
provided by the Stream head; it reimplements the queueing provided by the
STREAMS queueing; it reimplements message handling provided by the STREAMS
framework; it reimplements STREAMS timer queueing and event handling; it
reimplements STREAMS trace and error logging; and, it reimplements a portion
of the STREAMS DDI/DKI for general purpose kernel functions (see
.BR ctimod (9)).
.PP
This driver would be much simpler and perform much better as a STREAMS driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
This is a port of the Dialogic\(rg Open System Release 6.1 version 239 GPL'ed
drivers to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
This is alpha-release software and has not been tested on any actual
Dialogic\(rg hardware to date (the problem being the lack of hardware with
which to test).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
The
.B pmacd
driver provides the
.RI \(lq pmacd \(rq
kernel module.  Also, in preparation for a STREAMS based driver, the driver
also recognizes
.RI \(lq streams-pmacd \(rq
and
.IR \(lq streams-pmacdDriver \(rq
as kernel module aliases.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
Devices provided by the
.B pmacd
driver are as follows:
.TP
.B /dev/streams/clone/pmacd
clone device for the
.B pmacd
driver under
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR dlgn (4),
.BR dvbm (4),
.BR gncfd (4),
.BR gpio (4),
.BR sctmr (4),
.BR mercd (4),
.BR pmacd (4),
.BR ctimod (4),
.BR osr61 (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B pmacd
has obvious bugs from inspection.
The penchant of the original GPL release for suppressing compiler warnings is
worrisome.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
These drivers should be compatible with OSR 6.1 Release 239.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Dialogic \(rg
specifications.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
This driver is part of the Springware support from earlier Dialogic\(rg
drivers.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
