@c @setfilename hp.info

@node Hewlett-Packard License
@section Hewlett-Packard License
@cindex license, HP
@cindex license, Hewlett-Packard

@sp 2
@center HEWLETT-PACKARD LICENSE

@center Copyright @copyright{} 1993, 1994, 1995  Hewlett-Packard Company
@center @sc{All Rights Reserved}

The enclosed software and documentation includes copyrighted works of @cite{Hewlett-Package Co.}
For as long as you comply with the following limitations, you are hereby authorized to (i) use,
reproduce, and modify the software and documentation, and to (ii) distribute the software and
documentation, including modifications, for non-commercial purposes only.

@enumerate
@item
The enclosed software and documentation is made available at no charge in order to advance the
general development of high-performance networking products.

@item
You may not delete any copyright notices contained in the software or documentation.  All hard
copies, and copies in source code or object code form, of the software or documentation (including
modifications) must contain at least one of the copyright notices.

@item
The enclosed software and documentation has not been subjected to testing and quality control and is
not a @cite{Hewlett-Packard @abbr{Co.}} product.  At a future time, @cite{Hewlett-Packard
@abbr{Co.}} may or may not offer a version of the software and documentation as a product.

@item
@b{THE SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS".  HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY DOES NOT WARRANT
THAT THE USE, REPRODUCTION, MODIFICATION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT
INFRINGE A THIRD PARTY'S INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS.  HP DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE SOFTWARE OR
DOCUMENTATION IS ERROR FREE.  HP DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WITH REGARD TO THE
SOFTWARE AND THE DOCUMENTATION.  HP SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.}

@item
@b{HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY WILL NOT IN ANY EVENT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING LOST PROFITS) RELATED TO ANY USE, REPRODUCTION,
MODIFICATION, OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENATION.}
@end enumerate
