@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: quick.texi,v 0.9.2.5 2006/08/27 12:16:11 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/08/27 12:16:11 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@unnumberedsec @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}

@include descrip.texi

@unnumberedsubsec Release

This is the @command{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}} package, released @value{PACKAGE_DATE}.  This
@samp{@value{VERSION}} release, and the lastest version, can be obtained from the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html, download area} of @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, The
OpenSS7 Project} website using a command such as:

@example
$> wget http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2
@end example

Please see the @file{NEWS} file for release notes and history of user visible changes for the
current version, and the @file{ChangeLog} file for a more detailed history of implementation
changes.  The @file{TODO} file lists features not yet implemented and other outstanding items.

Please see the @file{INSTALL}, @file{INSTALL-@value{PACKAGE}} and @file{README-make} files (or the
@cite{Installation and Reference Manual}) for installation instructions.  When working from CVS or
git, please see the @file{README-cvs} file.  An abbreviated installation procedure that works for
most applications appears below.

This release of the package is published strictly under Version 2 of the @cite{GNU Public License}
which can be found in the file @file{COPYING}.  Package specific licensing terms (if any) can be
found in the file @file{LICENSING}.  Please respect these licensing arrangements.  If you are
interested in different licensing terms, please contact the copyright holder,
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation}, or @url{mailto:bidulock@@openss7.org}.

See @file{README-alpha} (if it exists) for alpha release information.

@unnumberedsubsec Prerequisites

@include prerequisites.texi

When configuring and building multiple @cite{OpenSS7 Project} release packages, place all of the
source packages (unpacked tarballs) at the same directory level and all build directories at the
same directory level.

When installing packages that install as kernel modules, it is necessary to have the correct kernel
development package installed.  For the following distributions, use the following commands:

@example
Ubuntu:  $> apt-get install linux-headers
Debain:  $> apt-get install kernel-headers
Fedora:  $> yum install kernel-devel
@end example

You also need the same version of gcc compiple with which the kernel was built.  If it is not the
default, add @samp{CC=kgcc} on the line after @samp{./configure}, for example:

@example
$> ../@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/configure CC='gcc-3.4'
@end example

@unnumberedsubsec Installation

The following commands will download, configure, build, check, install, validate, uninstall and
remove the package:

@example
$> wget http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2
$> tar -xjvf @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2
$> mkdir build
$> pushd build
$> ../@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/configure --enable-autotest
$> make
$> make check
$> sudo make install
$> sudo make installcheck
$> sudo make uninstall
$> popd
$> sudo rm -rf build
$> rm -rf @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
$> rm -f @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2
@end example

If you have problems, try building with the logging targets instead.  If the make of a logging
target fails, an automatic problem report will be generated that can be mailed to
@email{bugs@@openss7.org, The OpenSS7 Project}.@footnote{Please see @xref{Problem Reports}, in the
manual, or the file @file{PROBLEMS} in the release directory for more information on filing a proper
@dfn{Problem Report}.} Installation steps using the logging targets proceed as follows:

@example
$> wget http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2
$> tar -xjvf @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2
$> mkdir build
$> pushd build
$> ../@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/configure --enable-autotest
$> make compile.log
$> make check.log
$> sudo make install.log
$> sudo make installcheck.log
$> sudo make uninstall.log
$> popd
$> sudo rm -rf build
$> rm -rf @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
$> rm -f @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2
@end example

See @file{README-make} for additional specialized make targets.

For custom applications, see the @file{INSTALL} and @file{INSTALL-@value{PACKAGE}} files or the
@cite{Installation and Reference Manual} as listed below.  If you encounter troubles, see the
trouble shooting section of the @cite{Installation and Reference Manual} before issuing a bug
report.

@unnumberedsubsec Brief Installation Instructions

The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package is available from the @uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html,
downloads area of The OpenSS7 Project website} using a command such as:

@example
$> wget http://www.openss7.org/tarballs/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2
@end example

Unpack the tarball using a command such as:

@example
$> tar -xjvf @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2
@end example

The tarball will unpack into the relative subdirectory named after the package name:
@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.

The package builds using the GNU @command{autoconf} utilities and the @file{configure} script.  To
build the package, we recommend using a separate @file{build} directory as follows:

@example
$> mkdir build
$> cd build
$> ../@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/configure
@end example

In general, the package configures and builds without adding any special options to the
@file{configure} script.  For general options to the @file{configure} script, see the GNU
@file{INSTALL} file in the distribution:

@example
$> less ../@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/INSTALL
@end example

For specific options to the @file{configure} script, see the @file{INSTALL-@value{PACKAGE}} file in
the distribution, or simply execute the configure script with the @option{--help} option like so:

@example
$> ../@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/configure --help
@end example

After configuring the package, the package can be compiled simply by issuing the @samp{make}
command:

@example
$> make
@end example

Some specialized makefile targets exists, see the @file{README-make} file in the distribution or
simply invoke the @samp{help} target like so:

@example
$> make help | less
@end example

After successfully building the package, the package can be checked by invoking the @samp{check}
make target like so:

@example
$> make check
@end example

After succesffully checking the package, the package can be installed by invoking the @samp{install}
make target (as root) like so:

@example
$> sudo make install
@end example

The testsuites that ship with the package can be invoked after the package has been installed by
invoking the @samp{installcheck} target.  This target can either be invoked as root, or as a normal
user, like so:

@example
$> make installcheck
@end example

(Note: you must add the @option{--enable-autotest} flag to @file{configure}, above for the
testsuites to be invoked with @samp{make installcheck}.)

The package can be cleanly removed by invoking the @samp{uninstall} target (as root):

@example
$> sudo make uninstall
@end example

Then the build directory and tarball can be simply removed:

@example
$> cd ..
$> rm -rf build
$> rm -rf @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
$> rm -f @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}.tar.bz2
@end example

@unnumberedsubsec Detailed Installation Instructions

More detailed installation instructions can be found in the @cite{Installation and Reference
Manual}, contained in the distribution in @samp{text}, @samp{info}, @samp{html} and @samp{pdf}
formats:

@example
$> cd ../@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
$> less doc/manual/@value{PACKAGE}.txt
$> lynx doc/manual/@value{PACKAGE}.html
$> info doc/manual/@value{PACKAGE}.info
$> xpdf doc/manual/@value{PACKAGE}.pdf
@end example

The @samp{text} version of the manual is always available in the @file{MANUAL} file in the release.

The current manual is also always available online from @cite{The OpenSS7 Project} website at:

@example
$> lynx http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html
@end example

