'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: hostent.5.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-06-18 16:45:31 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-06-18 16:45:31 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: hostent.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-06-18 16:45:31  brian
.\" - widespread updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 10:09:42  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/01/08 16:24:48  brian
.\" - final updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/01/05 06:14:50  brian
.\" - added GCOM api files, doc updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/01/03 14:50:44  brian
.\" - documentation updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/12/31 13:56:11  brian
.\" - added package manual page
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH HOSTENT 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B hostent
\- the HOST entity structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <netx25/xnetdb.h>
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct hostent {
        char *h_name;           /* official name of host */
        char **h_aliases;       /* alias list */
        int h_addrtype;         /* host address type */
        int h_length;           /* length of address */
        char **h_addr_list;     /* list of addresses */
};\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The members of the
.B hostent
structure include:
.TP \w'\fIh_addr_list\fR\(em'u
.I h_name
A pointer to the name of the X.25 host, as defined by the
.I @sysconfdir@/x25/xhosts
file.
.TP
.I h_aliases
A pointer to an array of character pointers that point to aliases for the X.25 host.
.TP
.I h_addrtype
The type of address being returned, this is always
.BR CCITT_X25 .
.TP
.I h_length
The length, in bytes, of the structure that contains the X.25 address.
.TP
.I h_addr_list
A pointer to an
.B xaddrf
structure containing the network address of the
X.25 host.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B hostent
structure is defined int he
.I @includedir@/netx25/xnetdb.h
file.  It has the format shown under
.IR \*(lq SYNOPSIS ,\*(rq
above.
.PP
The
.B hostent
structure contains a single entry from the
.I @sysconfdir@/x25/xhosts
file.  This contains information about facilities and options to be used when making PAD calls to a
particular address.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/netx25/xnetdb.h
Defines the
.B hostent
structure.
.TP
.B @sysconfdir@/x25/xhosts
Provides the
.B hostent
database.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR endxhostent (3),
.BR getxhostbyaddr (3),
.BR getxhostbyname (3),
.BR getxhostent (3),
.BR setxhostent (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B hostent
structure has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B hostent
structure is compatible with
SunLink\(rg and products based on SunLink\(rg,
.[
sunlink9
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.B hostent
is a Solaris\*(rg
specific structure.  It may be necessary to define
.B _SUN_SOURCE
before including any header files to expose these symbols.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SunLink 8.1,
.[
sunlink8
.]
SunLink 9.0.
.[
sunlink9
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B hostent
structure first appears in SunLink\(rg X.25.
.[
sunlink9
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
