'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strxns.5.man,v 0.9.2.3 2007/01/05 06:14:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/01/05 06:14:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strxns.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/01/05 06:14:50  brian
.\" - added GCOM api files, doc updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/01/03 14:50:44  brian
.\" - documentation updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/12/31 13:56:11  brian
.\" - added package manual page
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRXNS 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.SH NAME
.B @PACKAGE@
\- @PACKAGE_TITLE@ package
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This is the
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ )
package for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
OpenSS7
.I STREAMS
add-on packages are separate add-on packages to the
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS"
.[
lfs
.]
release that provide additional functionality and protocol support not traditionally found on UNIX
systems, or which have traditionally fallen into the domain of value-add system software, or, in 
this case, where funtionality was options or differently handled in a number of implementations.
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package is one of the several optional add-on packages that provide enhanced network protocol
support beyond that provided by the base
.I STREAMS
package.  This package provides support for communications devices and protocols based on the
.IR "Communications Device Interface (CDI)" ,
.BR cdi (7),
.IR "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)" ,
.BR dlpi (7),
and
.IR "Network Provider Interface (NPI)" ,
.BR npi (7),
not provided by the base package.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package providers
.I STREAMS
module and drivers, libraries, programs, init scripts, and daemons that implement networking
protocol based on the lowest three layers of the OSI reference model.
.PP
The package builds and installs the following
.I STREAMS
kernel modules and drivers:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.TP
.BR ldl (4)
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package includes kernel modules,
.I SVR 4.2 STREAMS
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and development environment for the
development and execution of
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
protocol stack components and applications for the
.I SVR 4.2 STREAMS
environment.
.PP
This distribution is only currently applicable to
.B Linux
2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted at
.IR ix86 ", " x86_64 ", " ppc " and " ppc64
architectures, but should build and install for other architectures as well.
.PP
This package is currently incomplete.  It is being released as a reference point for the community.
If you are interested in completion of this package, contact
.RB < info@openss7.com >.
.\"
.\"
.SH "PACKAGE CONTENTS"
.PP
The
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ )
package contains the following manual pages:
.HP
.BR XNS (4)\ \-\ 
OpenSS7 X/Open Networking Services (XNS).
.PD 0
.HP
.BR eth (4)\ \-\ 
Ethernet data link.
.HP
.BR hdlc (4)\ \-\ 
High-Level Data Link Control.
.HP
.BR hdlc_ioctl (4)\ \-\ 
common IO controls for HDLC devices.
.HP
.BR ip2xinet (4)\ \-\ 
IP
.I STREAMS
driver.
.HP
.BR ip (4)\ \-\ 
Internet Protocol.
.HP
.BR ipcl (4)\ \-\ 
.I STREAMS
Internet Protocol (IP) Driver.
.HP
.BR ipco (4)\ \-\ 
.I STREAMS
Internet Protocol (IP) Driver.
.HP
.BR ip_strm (4)\ \-\ 
IP
.I STREAMS
module.
.HP
.BR ip_strm_mod (4)\ \-\ 
IP
.I STREAMS
module.
.HP
.BR ip_strms (4)\ \-\ 
IP
.I STREAMS
module.
.HP
.BR ip_strms_mod (4)\ \-\ 
IP
.I STREAMS
module.
.HP
.BR ip_to_dlpi (4)\ \-\ 
IP
.I STREAMS
driver.
.HP
.BR lapb (4)\ \-\ 
X.25 Link Access Protocol (Balanced).
.HP
.BR ldl (4)\ \-\ 
Linux Data Link (LDL) driver.
.HP
.BR link-driver (4)\ \-\ 
Linux Data Link (LDL) driver.
.HP
.BR np (4)\ \-\ 
.I STREAMS
Network Provider (NP) driver.
.HP
.BR npi_ip (4)\ \-\ 
.I STREAMS
NPI Internet Protocol (NPI-IP)
driver.
.HP
.BR np_ip (4)\ \-\ 
.I STREAMS
Internet Protocol (IP)
driver.
.PD
.PP
.HP
.BR strxns (5)\ \-\ 
@PACKAGE_TITLE@ package.
.PP
.HP
.BR dlpi_eth (7)\ \-\ 
Data Link Provider Interface.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR npi_ip (7)\ \-\ 
Network Provider Interface (NPI) \- Internet Protocol (IP) Corrigendum.
.PD
.PP
.HP
.BR ldlconfig (8)\ \-\ 
Linux data link configuration.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR ldltest (8)\ \-\ 
Linux data link test program.
.HP
.BR strxns_mknod (8)\ \-\ 
create or remove
.I STREAMS
XNS device nodes.
.HP
.BR test-ip (8)\ \-\ 
a test suite executable for the
.BR ip (4)
.I STREAMS
driver.
.HP
.BR test-np_ip (8)\ \-\ 
a test suite executable for the
.BR np_ip (4)
.I STREAMS
driver.
.PD
.\"
.SS "CDI Manual Pages"
.PP
The following manual pages included in the
.B @PACKAGE@
package, document the
.IR "Communications Device Interface (CDI)" :
.HP
.BR cdi (7)\ \-\ 
Communications Device Interface
.PD 0
.HP
.BR CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
abort output.
.HP
.BR CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
allow input.
.HP
.BR CD_ATTACH_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
attach to a physical point of attachment.
.HP
.BR CD_BAD_FRAME_IND (7)\ \-\ 
frame with error.
.HP
.BR CD_DETACH_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
detach from a physical point of attachment.
.HP
.BR CD_DISABLE_CON (7)\ \-\ 
disable confirmation.
.HP
.BR CD_DISABLE_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
disable a device.
.HP
.BR CD_ENABLE_CON (7)\ \-\ 
enable confirmation.
.HP
.BR CD_ENABLE_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
prepare a device.
.HP
.BR CD_ERROR_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
error acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR CD_ERROR_IND (7)\ \-\ 
error indication.
.HP
.BR CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
halt input.
.HP
.BR CD_INFO_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
information acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR CD_INFO_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
information request.
.HP
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_IND (7)\ \-\ 
report modem signals.
.HP
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL (7)\ \-\ 
request a
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_IND (7).
.HP
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
assert modem signals.
.HP
.BR CD_MUX_NAME_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
get mux name.
.HP
.BR CD_OK_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
success acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR CD_READ_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
wait for input request.
.HP
.BR CD_UNITDATA_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
data send acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR CD_UNITDATA_IND (7)\ \-\ 
data receive indication.
.HP
.BR CD_UNITDATA_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
data send request.
.HP
.BR CD_WRITE_READ_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
write/read request.
.PD
.PP
The package also include a texinfo version manual.
.\"
.SS "DLPI Manual Pages"
.PP
The following manual pages included in the
.B @PACKAGE@
package, document the
.IR "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)" :
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.HP
.BR dlpi (7)\ \-\ 
Data Link Provider Interface
.PD 0
.HP
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request the DLS provider associate a physical point of attachment (PPA) with a
Stream.
.HP
.BR DL_BIND_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
report the successful bind of a DLSAP to a Stream.
.HP
.BR DL_BIND_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request the DLS provider bind a DLSAP to a Stream.
.HP
.BR DL_CONNECT_CON (7)\ \-\ 
inform the local DLS user that the requested data link connection has been
established.
.HP
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7)\ \-\ 
convey to the local DLS user that a remote (calling) DLS user wishes to
establish a data link connection.
.HP
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request the DLS provider establish a data link connection with a remote DLS
user.
.HP
.BR DL_CONNECT_RES (7)\ \-\ 
direct the DLS provider to accept a connect request from a remote (calling)
DLS user on a designated Stream.
.HP
.BR DL_DATA_ACK_IND (7)\ \-\ 
convey one DLSDU from the DLS Provider to the DLS User.
.HP
.BR DL_DATA_ACK_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request passed to the Data Link Provider to request that a DLSDU be sent to a
peer DLS User using acknowledged connectionless mode data unit transmission
procedures.
.HP
.BR DL_DATA_ACK_STATUS_IND (7)\ \-\ 
convey the result of the previous associated
.BR DL_DATA_ACK_REQ (7)
from the DLS Provider to the DLS User.
.HP
.BR DL_DATA_IND (7)\ \-\ 
convey a DLSDU from the DLS provider to the DLS user.
.HP
.BR DL_DATA_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
convey a complete DLSDU from the DLS user to the DLS provider for transmission
over the data link connection.
.HP
.BR DL_DETACH_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
for style 2 DLS providers, request the DLS provider detach a physical point of
attachment (PPA) from a Stream.
.HP
.BR DL_DISABMULTI_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request the DSL provider to disable specific multicast addresses on a per
Stream basis.
.HP
.BR DL_DISCONNECT_IND (7)\ \-\ 
inform the DLS user that the data link connectin on this Stream has been
disconnected.
.HP
.BR DL_DISCONNECT_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request the DLS provider to disconnect an active data link connection or one
that was in the process of activation, either outgoing or incoming, as a
results of an earlier
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7)
or
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ (7).
.HP
.BR DL_ENABMULTI_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request the DLS provider to enable specific multicast addresses on a per
Stream basis.
.HP
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
inform the DLS user that a previously issued request or response was invalid.
.HP
.BR DL_GET_STATISTICS_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
return statistics in response to the
.BR DL_GET_STATISTICS_REQ (7).
.HP
.BR DL_GET_STATISTICS_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
directs the DLS provider to return statistics.
.HP
.BR DL_INFO_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
this message is sent in response to
.BR DL_INFO_REQ (7);
it conveys information about the DLPI Stream to the DLS user.
.HP
.BR DL_INFO_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request information of the DLS provider about the DLPI Stream.
.HP
.BR DL_OK_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
acknowledges to the DLS user that a previously issued request primitive was
successfully received.
.HP
.BR DL_PHYS_ADDR_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
return the value for the physical address to the link user in response to a
.BR DL_PHYS_ADDR_REQ (7).
.HP
.BR DL_PHYS_ADDR_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request the DLS provider to return either the default (factory) or the current
value of the physical address associated with the Stream depending upon the
value of the address type selected in the request.
.HP
.BR DL_PROMISCOFF_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request the DLS Provider to disable promiscuous mode on a per Stream basis,
either at the physical level or at the SAP level.
.HP
.BR DL_PROMISCON_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request the DLS Provider to enable promiscuous mode on a per Stream basis,
either at the physical level or at the SAP level.
.HP
.BR DL_REPLY_IND (7)\ \-\ 
service indication primitive for the acknowledged connectionless-mode data
unit exchange service.
.HP
.BR DL_REPLY_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
pass to the DLS Provider by the DLS User to request that a DLSDU be returned
from a peer DLS Provider or that DLSDUs be exchanged between stations using
acknowledged connectionless mode data unit exchange procedures.
.HP
.BR DL_REPLY_STATUS_IND (7)\ \-\ 
this indication primitive is passed from the DLS Provider to the DLS User to
indicate the success or failure of the previous associated acknowledged
connectionless mode data unit exhcange request.
.HP
.BR DL_REPLY_UPDATE_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
convey a DLSDU to the DLS Provider from the DLS User to be held by the DLS
Provider and sent out at a later time when requested to do so by the peer DLS
Provider.
.HP
.BR DL_REPLY_UPDATE_STATUS_IND (7)\ \-\ 
the service confirmation primitive for the reply data unit preparation
service.
.HP
.BR DL_RESET_CON (7)\ \-\ 
inform the rest-initiating DLS user that the reset has completed.
.HP
.BR DL_RESET_IND (7)\ \-\ 
inform the DLS user that either the remote DLS user is resynchronizing the
data link connection, or the DLS provider is reporting loss of data for which
it cannot recover.
.HP
.BR DL_RESET_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request that the DLS provider initiate the resynchronization of a data link
connection.
.HP
.BR DL_RESET_RES (7)\ \-\ 
direct the DLS provider to complete resynchronizing the data link connection.
.HP
.BR DL_SET_PHYS_ADDR_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
sets the physical address value for Streams for that provider for a particular
PPA.
.HP
.BR DL_SUBS_BIND_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
report the successful bind of a subsequent DLSAP to a Stream, and return the
bound DLSAP address to the DLS user.
to a
.BR DL_SUBS_BIND_REQ (7).
.HP
.BR DL_SUBS_BIND_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request the DLS provider bind a subsequent DLSAP to the Stream.
.HP
.BR DL_SUBS_UNBIND_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request the DLS Provider to unbind the DLSAP that had been bound by a previous
.BR DL_SUBS_BIND_REQ (7)
from this Stream.
.HP
.BR DL_TEST_CON (7)\ \-\ 
convery the TEST response DLSDU from the DLS Provider to the DLS User in
response to a
.BR DL_TEST_REQ (7).
.HP
.BR DL_TEST_IND (7)\ \-\ 
convery the TEST response/indication DLSDU frm the DLS Provider to the DLS
User.
.HP
.BR DL_TEST_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
convey one TEST command DLSDU from the DLS User to the DLS Provider for
transmission to a peer DLS Provider.
.HP
.BR DL_TEST_RES (7)\ \-\ 
convey the TEST response DLSDU from the DLS User to the DLS Provider in
response to a
.BR DL_TEST_IND (7).
.HP
.BR DL_TOKEN_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
message sent in response to
.BR DL_TOKEN_REQ (7);
it conveys the connection response token assigned to the Stream.
.HP
.BR DL_TOKEN_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request that a connection response token be assigned to the Stream and
returned to the DLS user.
.HP
.BR DL_UDERROR_IND (7)\ \-\ 
inform the DLS user that a previously sent
.BR DL_UNITDATA_REQ (7)
produced an error or could not be delivered.
.HP
.BR DL_UDQOS_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request the DLS provider to apply the specified quality of service paramter
values to subsequent data unit transmissions.
.HP
.BR DL_UNBIND_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
request the DLS provider to unbind the DLSAP that had been bound by a previous
.BR DL_BIND_REQ (7)
from this Stream.
.HP
.BR DL_UNITDATA_IND (7)\ \-\ 
convey one DLSDU from the DLS provider to the DLS user.
.HP
.BR DL_UNITDATA_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
convey one DLSDU from the DLS user to the DLS provider for transmission to a
peer DLS user.
.HP
.BR DL_XID_CON (7)\ \-\ 
convey an XID DLSDU from the DLS Provider to the DLS User in response to a
.BR DL_XID_REQ (7).
.HP
.BR DL_XID_IND (7)\ \-\ 
convey an XID DLSDU from the DLS Provider to the DLS User.
.HP
.BR DL_XID_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
convey one XID DLSDU from the DLS User to the DLS Provider for transmission to
a peer DLS User.
.HP
.BR DL_XID_RES (7)\ \-\ 
convey an XID DLSDU from the DLS User to the DSL Provider in response to a
.BR DL_XID_IND (7).
.PD
.PP
The package also include a texinfo version of the original PostScript manual.
.\"
.SS "NPI Manual Pages"
.PP
The following manual pages included in the
.B @PACKAGE@
package, document the
.IR "Network Provider Interface (NPI)" :
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.HP
.BR npi (7)\ \-\ 
Network Provider Interface
.PD 0
.HP
.BR N_BIND_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
bind protocol address acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
bind protocol address request.
.HP
.BR N_CONN_CON (7)\ \-\ 
network connection confirm.
.HP
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)\ \-\ 
network connection indication.
.HP
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
network connection request.
.HP
.BR N_CONN_RES (7)\ \-\ 
network connection response.
.HP
.BR N_DATACK_IND (7)\ \-\ 
data acknowlegement indication.
.HP
.BR N_DATACK_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
data acknowledgment request.
.HP
.BR N_DATA_IND (7)\ \-\ 
normal data transfer indication.
.HP
.BR N_DATA_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
normal data transfer request.
.HP
.BR N_DISCON_IND (7)\ \-\ 
disconnect indication.
.HP
.BR N_DISCON_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
disconnect request.
.HP
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
error acknowlegement.
.HP
.BR N_EXDATA_IND (7)\ \-\ 
expedited data transfer indication.
.HP
.BR N_EXDATA_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
expedited data transfer request.
.HP
.BR N_INFO_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
network information acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR N_INFO_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
network information request.
.HP
.BR N_OK_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
successful receipt acknowlegdement.
.HP
.BR N_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
network options management request.
.HP
.BR N_RESET_CON (7)\ \-\ 
reset confirmation.
.HP
.BR N_RESET_IND (7)\ \-\ 
reset indication.
.HP
.BR N_RESET_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
reset request.
.HP
.BR N_RESET_RES (7)\ \-\ 
reset response.
.\".HP
.\".BR N_TOKEN_ACK (7)\ \-\ 
.\".HP
.\".BR N_TOKEN_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
.HP
.BR N_UDERROR_IND (7)\ \-\ 
unitdata error indication.
.HP
.BR N_UNBIND_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
unbind protocol address request.
.HP
.BR N_UNITDATA_IND (7)\ \-\ 
unit data indication.
.HP
.BR N_UNITDATA_REQ (7)\ \-\ 
unit data request.
.PD
.PP
The package also include a texinfo version of the original PostScript manual.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.TP
.BR ip_strm_mod (4)
IP
.I STREAMS
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR ldl (4)
Linux Data Link (LDL) driver.
.TP
.BR np_ip (4)
.I STREAMS
Internet Protocol (IP)
driver.
.TP
.BR ip_to_dlpi (4)
IP
.I STREAMS
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH PREREQUISITES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package requires the following packages to be installed:
.TP
.BR streams (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
base package.
.TP
.BR strcompat (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
compatibility modules package.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although previous releases of the
.B @PACKAGE@
package were tested with
.IR LiS ,
.I LiS
is now deprecated and this release of
.B @PACKAGE@
has not been tested with
.IR LiS .
.I The OpenSS7 Project
will no longer support this package for
.IR LiS :
please upgrade to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package has been tested with a wide array of production
.B Linux
distributions, kernels, and target architectures, and is largely considered production grade by
.IR "The OpenSS7 Project" .
At the time of release, the
.B @PACKAGE@
package had no known bugs.  Problems can be reported to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
Please, however, use the included
.B send-pr
script for generating actionable problem reports.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR XNS (4),
.BR cdi (7),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_eth (7),
.BR npi (7),
.BR npi_ip (7).
.BR ldlconfig (8),
.BR ldltest (8),
.BR strxns_mknod (8),
.BR test-ip (8),
.BR test-np_ip (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package is compatible with
.I SVR 4.2
and systems based on
.I SVR 4.2
such as
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR DLPI ,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR NPI ,
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR "XNS 5.2" ,
.[
xns issue 5.2
.]
.IR UNIX95 ,
.IR UNIX98 .
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
A number of the modules and drivers contained in this package started out in the
.I LiS
distribution.  However,
.I LiS
distributions had broken DLPI and NPI header files and these were replaced by those written for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
Additional drivers (such as the
.BR np_ip (4)
driver) were added later and are developments of
.IR "The OpenSS7 Project" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
