'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ip.4.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/05/16 02:35:39 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/05/16 02:35:39 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH IP 4 "$Date: 2004/05/16 02:35:39 $" "$Name:  $" "Under Construction"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ip
\- Internet Protocol
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netinet/ip.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/tpi_ip.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/xti_ip.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int " ip_stream " = open(" \fR\*(lq/dev/ip\*(rq\fP ", " oflags );
.HP 8
.BI "int " ip_xtistr " = t_open(" \fR\*(lq/dev/ip\*(rq\fP ", " oflags );
.HP 8
.BI "int " ip_socket " = socket(" \fRPF_INET\fP ", " \fRSOCK_RAW\fP ", " \fRIPPROTO_IP\fP );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B IP
is an implementation of the Internet Protocol
.RB ( IP )
defined in RFC XXXX.
It implements a datagrams, best effort packet service.  Packets may be
reordered or duplicated in the network before they arrive.
.B IP
generates and checks checksums to catch transmission errors.
.PP
.B IP
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
pseudo-driver using the
.BR INET (4)
.B strinet
packet for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
The
.B strinet
packet translates Linux native
.BR ip (7)
sockets into TPI
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
transport provider streams suitable for use with XTI,
.[
xti
.]
.[
xns
.]
(see
.BR xti (3)).
.PP
.B IP
provides one connectionless TPI stream type.  To select the stream,
.I ip_device
can be one of the following:
.TP
.IR /dev/ip " or " /dev/inet/ip
This device provides the
.B IP
protocol services using the T-primitives of the Transport Provider Interface,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
used for Internet Protocol, as described in
.BR tpi_ip (7).
The
.BR tpi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR xnet (3)
or
.BR xti (3)
library and provides
.B IP
interface using XTI
.[
xti
.]
.[
xns
.]
as described in
.BR xti_ip (3).
.PP
.B IP
provides one socket type for use by the
.BR sockets (3)
library
.BR socket (7)
calls.
.B IP
provides sockets in the protocol family
.BR PF_INET " and " PF_INET6
using the protocol number
.BR IPPROTO_IP .
The
.I socket_type
can be one of the following:
.TP
.B SOCK_PACKET
A standard
.I SOCK_PACKET
socket that preserves message boundaries, does not Nagle, and provides only
best effort unreliable delivery in a connectionless association.  This socket
uses the underlying
.IR Linux \(rg
.B IP
socket implementation,
.BR ip (7),
directly.  See
.BR packet (7)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.PP
The following entries in
.B /etc/protosw
provides the information for
.BR socksys (4)
to use the devices:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lllllll.
PF_INET:SOCK_PACKET:IPPROTO_IP:/dev/ip:tpi:clts
PF_INET6:SOCK_PACKET:IPPROTO_IP:/dev/ip:tpi:clts
.TE
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR socksys "(4) and " protosw (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.BR streamio (7)
.I I_STR
system calls on the
.IR ip_stream ", " ip_xtistr " or " ip_socket .
These management controls are described in
.BR timod (4),
.BR sockmod (4)
and
.BR socksys (4).
See also
.BR ip (7)
for sockets.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B IP
has several implementation.  THis manpage is for
.BR INET (4)
implementation that provides
.BR tpi (7)
access to the
.IR Linux \(rg
NET4 version of
.BR IP .
For more information on the
.IR Linux \(rg
NET4 version, see
.BR ip (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <sys/socket.h> ,
.BR <netinet/ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/xti.h> ,
.BR <sys/xti_ip.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.BR /dev/ip ,
.BR /dev/inet/ip .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR INET (4),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR ip (7),
.BR protosw (5),
.BR socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR sockmod (4),
.BR socksys (4),
.BR STREAMS (4),
.BR ip_ioctl (4),
.BR timod (4),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xit_ip (3).
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
