'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: m2paconfig.8.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-04-27 04:50:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-27 04:50:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: m2paconfig.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-04-27 04:50:50  brian
.\" - added missing manpage
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M2PACONFIG 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.SH NAME
.B m2paconfig
\- Interactive M2PA Configuration Utility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
\fBm2paconfig\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP]
.HP
\fBm2paconfig\fP {\fB-h\fP,\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fBm2paconfig\fP {\fB-V\fP,\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fBm2paconfig\fP {\fB-C\fP,\fB--copying\fP}
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B m2paconfig
is a configuration utility for the M2PA-SL module,
.BR m2pa_sl (4),
and the SL-MUX multiplexing driver,
.BR sl-mux (4).
Its purpose is to form Signalling Link streams using the M2PA-SL module, connect the M2PA link,
configure the link, and link the SL stream under the SL-MUX multiplexing driver, configure the lower
SL stream, and then wait in the background watching for updates to the configuration file and apply
updates as they occur.
.PP
The
.B m2paconfig
utility is intended to be run at system startup from a System V initializatoin script.  Once the configuration
of the M2PA-SL and SL-MUX driver is complete, applications programs can open, attach, enable and use
Signalling Link streams opened on the driver.
.PP
The purpose of the SL-MUX driver is to provide a unified interface for accessing signalling links of
a number of forms and from a number of various drivers.  Signalling links could correspond to a
device driver, or could be M2UA signalling links, M2PA signalling links or other implementations.
Each type of signalling link requires some additional configuration before they can be used and will
be linked under the SL-MUX by a separate configuration utility.  The
.B m2paconfig
utility is the utility used for the M2PA-SL module.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
.RB {  -i | --interactive }
Specifies that commands are to be provided interactively from a user at a terminal.  Prompts and
disagnostic messages will be printed between commands to prompt for user input.
.TP
.RB {  -q | --quiet }
Specifies that commands are to be read from standard input in a non-interactive fashion.  Prompts
and diagnostic messages will not be printed between commands and there will be no prompt for user
input.
.TP
.RB {  -v | --verbose =[\fILEVEL\fP]}
Specifies or increments the output verbosity \fILEVEL\fP.  When no \fILEVEL\fP is specified, simply
increments the current level.  This option can be specified multiple times (e.g\&. \fB-vvvv\fP).
.TP
.RB {  -d | --debug }
Specifies that yacc/bison debugging information should be displayed.  This is only really useful in
combination with the \fB-i\fP flag.
.TP
.RB { -h | --help | -? | --? }
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
.RB { -V | --version }
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
.RB { -C | --copying }
When this option is encountered, print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH "FILE FORMAT"
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SIGNALS
.PP
.TP
.RI { SIGHUP }
This signal causes the
.B m2paconf
utility to reread the configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1) indicates that an
error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message is printed on
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
options suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B m2paconfig
has no known bugs.
Report problems to
.RI < bugs@openss7.org >.
See
.BR send-pr (1).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR m2pa (4),
.BR sl-mux (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B m2paconfig
is an OpenSS7-specific configuration command.  Because this command is used interactively and is
transparent to the SL-User opening SL Streams, compatibility is not an issue.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Configuration is not subject to standardization.
The utility conforms to OpenSS7 project specifications, coding and options standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B m2paconfig
configuration utility was first released in sigtran 0.9.2.4.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 SIGTRAN stack.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
