'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=100
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: m2paconf.8.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/01/21 20:20:07 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/01/21 20:20:07 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: m2paconf.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/01/21 20:20:07  brian
.\" - added documetation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M2PACONF 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.SH NAME
.B m2paconf
\- M2PA Configuration utility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 12
\fBm2paconf\fP [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-g\fP|\fB--get\fP} \fIarguments\fP \fI...\fP
.PD 0
.HP
\fBm2paconf\fP [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-s\fP|\fB--set\fP} \fIarguments\fP \fI...\fP
.HP
\fBm2paconf\fP [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-f\fP|\fB--file\fP} [\fIFILENAME\fP]
.HP
.BR m2paconf " {" -h ", " --help }
.HP
.BR m2paconf " {" -V ", " --version }
.HP
.BR m2paconf " {" -C ", " --copying }
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B m2paconf
is a configuration utility for the M2PA-SL module,
.BR m2pa_sl (4),
and the SL-MUX multiplexing driver,
.BR sl-mux (4).
Its purpose is to form Signalling Link streams using the M2PA-SL module, connect the M2PA link,
configure the link, and link the SL stream under the SL-MUX multiplexing driver, configure the lower
SL stream, and then wait in the background watching for updates to the configuration file and apply
updates as they occur.
.PP
The
.B m2paconf
utility is intended to be run at system startup from a System V initializatoin script.  Once the configuration
of the M2PA-SL and SL-MUX driver is complete, applications programs can open, attach, enable and use
Signalling Link streams opened on the driver.
.PP
The purpose of the SL-MUX driver is to provide a unified interface for accessing signalling links of
a number of forms and from a number of various drivers.  Signalling links could correspond to a
device driver, or could be M2UA signalling links, M2PA signalling links or other implementations.
Each type of signalling link requires some additional configuration before they can be used and will
be linked under the SL-MUX by a separate configuration utility.  The
.B m2paconf
utility is the utility used for the M2PA-SL module.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.SS "Command Options"
.PP
One of the following mutually exclusive command options must be specified.  If no command options
are specified,
.B m2paconf
will act as though the
.B -g
option was specified and print the configuration for all M2PA PPAs.
.TP
[{\fB-g\fP|\fB--get\fP} [\fICLEI\fP|\fIPPA\fP] \fI...\fP]
Get and display the configuration information associated with a specific set of CLEI or PPA, or get
and display information for all PPAs (if no arguments are specified).  The information is displayed
in the same format as contained in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.
This option can be used to obtain information about specific M2PA signalling links, as well as
providing the ability to regenerate the
.B m2pa
entries in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.
.RS
.PP
Arguments consist of a whitespace separated list of one or more of the following arguments:
.TP
.I CLEI
A Common Language Equipment Identifier (CLEI) specifying a signalling link for which to display
information.
.TP
.I PPA
A global Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) specifying a signalling link for which to display
information.
.PP
If no arguments are supplied, the
.B m2paconf
utility will display information for all signalling links of type
.BR m2pa .
.RE
.TP
{\fB-r\fP|\fB--remove\fP} [\fICLEI\fP|\fIPPA\fP] \fI...\fP
Remove signalling links from the SL-MUX multiplexer for a specific set of CLEI or PPA, or remove
signalling links for all PPAs (if no arguments are specified).
This option can be used by configuration scripts to remove specific M2PA signalling links from the SL-MUX driver.
.RS
.PP
Arguments consist of a whitespace separated list of one or more of the following arguments:
.TP
.I CLEI
A Common Language Equipment Identifier (CLEI) specifying a signalling link to remove.
.TP
.I PPA
A global Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) specifying a signalling link to remove.
.PP
If no arguments are supplied, the
.B m2paconf
utility will remove all signalling links of type
.BR m2pa .
.RE
.TP
{\fB-a\fP|\fB--add\fP} \fICLEI\fP \fIPPA\fP \fIarguments\fP \fI...\fP
Add signalling links to the SL-MUX multiplexer for a specific signalling link.  The format of the
arguments are the same as for the
.B sl
entry in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.
This option can be used by configuration scripts to add specific M2PA signalling links to the SL-MUX driver.
.RS
.PP
Arguments consist of the following fields separated by whitespace:
.TP
.I clei
The Common Language Equipment Identifier (CLEI) to associate with the added signalling link.
.TP
.I ppa
The global Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) to associated with the added signalling link.
.TP
.I ss7-profile
Specifies the name of the SS7 profile to use, or the special value
.BR default ,
specifying the default SS7 profile for the signalling link.
The named profile, if other than
.BR default ,
must exist in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.
.TP
.I sl-profile
Specifies the name of the Signalling Link profile to use, or the special value
.BR default ,
specifying the default SL profile for the signalling link.
The named profile, if other than
.BR default ,
must exist in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.
.TP
.I sdt-profile
Specifies the name of the Signalling Data Terminal profile to use, or the special value
.BR default ,
specifying the default SDT profile for the signalling link.  For
.B m2pa
signalling links, this field is always set to
.BR default .
.TP
.I sdl-profile
Specifies the name of the Signalling Data Link profile to use, or the special value
.BR default ,
specifying the default SDL profile for the signalling link.  For
.B m2pa
signalling links, this field is always set to
.BR default .
.TP
.I device-type
Always
.BR m2pa .
.TP
.I local-endpoint
Specifies the host-name or IP address and port number to which the host will bind when forming the
SCTP association for the M2PA signalling link.  If no port number is specified, the default M2PA
reserved (well-known) port number is used.  If no IP address is specified, a wild card bind will be
performed.
.TP
.I remote-endpoint
Specifies the host-name or IP address and port number to which the host will connect when forming the
SCTP association for the M2PA signalling link.  If no port number is specified, the default M2PA
reserved (well-known) port number is used.
.RE
.TP
{\fB-f\fP|\fB--file\fP} [\fIFILENAME\fP]
Add, remove, and configure signalling links according to the signalling links configuration
specified in the file,
.IR FILENAME .
If no
.I FILENAME
argument is specified, the default configuration file at
.B /etc/sysconfig/slconfd
is read.
The file specified by
.I FILENAME
must be in
.BR slconf (5)
format, and on the
.B m2pa
.I device-type
entries are processed by the
.B m2paconf
utility.
.PP
.TP
{\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP|\fB-?\fP|\fB--?\fP}
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
{\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
{\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
When this option is encountered, print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
The file format is as described in
.BR slconf (5),
with the additional fields defined for devices of type
.BR m2pa .
Signalling link specification line entries in the file consist of the following fields:
.PP
.B sl
.RI < clei >
.RI < global-ppa >
.RI < profile >
.RI < device-type >
.RI < device >
.RI < modules >
.RI < m2pa-version >
.RI < local-endpoint >
.RI < remote-endpoint >
.PP
Where,
.TP
.B sl
is the selector indicating that this is a signalling link definition entry.
.TP
.I clei
is a Common Language Equipment Identifier (CLEI) to be associated with this signalling link.
.TP
.I global-ppa
is a global Physical Point of Appearance (PPA) to be associated with this signalling link.
.TP
.I profile
is a signalling link protocol parameters profile used to configure this signalling link.  The
profile must either be the default entry,
.BR default ,
or must be defined in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.
.TP
.I device-type
Always
.BR m2pa .
.TP
.I device
is the device to open to create a signalling link Stream.  For
M2PA the device is normally
.RB \(lq /dev/sctp_n \(rq.
.TP
.I modules
is the modules to push over the open device Stream necessary to create a signalling link Stream
supporting the Signalling Link Interface (SLI),
.BR sli (7).
This field is a comma-separated list of module names, with no intervening whitespace.  Modules are
pushed in the order in which they appear in the list.
For M2PA, the module list normaly contains only the
.RB \(lq m2pa_sl \(rq
module.
.TP
.I m2pa-version
is the protocol version for M2PA.  This field can be one of the following:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBdraft6.9\fR\(em'u
.B draft3
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-03
.[
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-03
.]
.PD 0
.TP
.B draft3.1
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-03
with modifications
.TP
.B draft4
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-04
.[
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-04
.]
.TP
.B draft4.1
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-04
with modifications
.TP
.B draft4.9
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-04
with anticipated changes for 05.
.TP
.B draft5
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-05
.[
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-05
.]
.TP
.B draft5.1
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-05
with modifications
.TP
.B draft6
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-06
.[
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-06
.]
.TP
.B draft6.1
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-06
with modifications
.TP
.B draft6.9
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-06
with anticipated changes for 07
.TP
.B draft7
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-07
.[
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-07
.]
.TP
.B draft9
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-09
.[
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-09
.]
.TP
.B draft10
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-10
.[
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-10
.]
.TP
.B draft11
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-11
.[
draft-ietf-sigtran-m2pa-11
.]
.TP
.B rfc4165
RFC 4165
.[
rfc4165
.]
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I local-endpoint
is the local SCTP endpoint.  This field can be a host-name and port number in the format:
\fIhost-name\fR[\fB,\fIhost-name\fR][\fB:\fIport\fR]
or the format:
\fIip-address\fR[\fB,\fIip-address\fR][\fB:\fIservice\fR]
or a mixture of IP addresses, host-names and port numbers or service names.
A star,
.RB ` * ',
can be used in the place of host-names or IP addresses to indicate a wild card bind.  If the port
number (or service name) is not specified, a dynamic port number will be assigned.  For the M2PA
well-known port number, use
.B m2pa
as a service name.
A universal address in numbers and dots notation (e.g.
.BR 127.0.0.0.250 )
can also be used.
.TP
.I remote-endpoint
is the remote SCTP endpoint.  This field can be a host-name and port number in the format:
\fIhost-name\fR[\fB,\fIhost-name\fR][\fB:\fIport\fR]
or the format:
\fIip-address\fR[\fB,\fIip-address\fR][\fB:\fIservice\fR]
or a mixture of IP addresses, host-names and port numbers or service names.
If the port number (or service name) is not specified, the M2PA well-known port number will be used
as though
.B m2pa
was specified as a service name.
A universal address in numbers and dots notation (e.g.
.BR 127.0.0.1.250 )
can also be used.
.PP
When the
.B -f
option is specified,
.B m2paconf
opens the configuration file,
.IR FILENAME ,
and reads the entries line by line.  Each entry is independent of other entries.  For each entry of
.I device-type
.BR m2pa ,
.BR m2paconf
performs the following actions:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The utility opens the device specified in the
.I device
field (typically,
.BR /dev/sctp_n )
using the
.BR open (2s)
system call.
The utility then pushes the modules specified in the
.I modules
field (typically,
.BR m2pa_sl (4))
using the
.IR I_PUSH (7)
input-output control.
.IP 2.
The utility configures the signalling link using signalling link input-output controls in accordance
with the
.I profile
values, using
.BR sli_ioctl (4)
intput-output controls.
.IP 3.
The utility attaches the signalling link using the
.I local-endpoint
address converted to a
.I sockaddr
structure and placed in the
.I lmi_ppa
field of the
.BR LMI_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP 4.
The utility enables the signalling link using the
.I remote-endpoint
address converted to a
.I sockaddr
structure and placed in the
.I lmi_rem
field of the
.BR LMI_ENABLE_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP 5.
The utility links the resulting signalling link Stream under the SL-MUX multiplexing driver using
the
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control and closes the file descriptor for the Stream.
.IP 6.
The utility uses the SL-MUX specific input-output controls to assign the
.IR clei ", " global-ppa " and " device-type
values to the linked signalling link.  Streams opened on the SL-MUX driver can then attach to this
signalling link using the global PPA or the CLEI for the signalling link.
.PP
Once the
.B m2paconf
utility has linked and configured all of the signalling link Streams specified on the command line,
or in the configuration file, it watches the configuration file for changes and effects those
changes when they occur.  Changes are effected by linking additional signalling links or unlinking
existing signalling links to alter the configuration of the SL-MUX to match that of the altered
configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SIGNALS
.PP
.TP
.RI { SIGHUP }
This signal causes the
.B m2paconf
utility to reread the configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
