'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=100
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: m2uaconf.8.man,v 0.9.2.5 2008-04-29 01:52:16 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 01:52:16 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: m2uaconf.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2008-04-29 01:52:16  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/08/03 13:34:20  brian
.\" - manual updates, put ss7 modules in public release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/03/14 00:54:32  brian
.\" - manpages for check maintenance target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/01/26 21:54:31  brian
.\" - working up AS drivers and docs
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/01/21 20:20:07  brian
.\" - added documetation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M2UACONF 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.SH NAME
.B m2uaconf
\- M2UA Configuration Utility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 12
\fBm2uaconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [{\fB-g\fR|\fB--get\fR} [{\fICLEI\fR|\fIPPA\fR} [\fI...\fR]]]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBm2uaconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-r\fR|\fB--remove\fR} [{\fICLEI\fR|\fIPPA\fR} [\fI...\fR]]
.HP
\fBm2uaconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-a\fR|\fB--add\fR} \fICLEI\fR \fIPPA\fR \fIarguments\fR \fI...\fR
.HP
\fBm2uaconf\fR [\fIoptoins\fR] {\fB-f\fR|\fB--file\fR} [\fIFILENAME\fR]
.HP
\fBm2uaconf\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBm2uaconf\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBm2uaconf\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B m2uaconf
is a configuration utility for the M2UA-AS driver,
.BR m2ua_as (4),
and the SL-MUX multiplexing driver,
.BR sl-mux (4).
Its purpose is to form Signalling Link Streams using the M2UA-AS driver, connect the M2UA link
configure the link, and link the SL stream under the SL-MUX multiplexing driver, configure the
lower SL Stream, and then wait in the background watching for updates to the configuration file and
apply updates as they occur.
.PP
The
.B m2uaconf
utility is intended to be run at system startup from a System V intiialization script, and at any
time that reconfiguration is being performed.  Once the configuration of the M2UA-AS and SL-MUX
drivers is complete, applications programs can open, attach, enmable and use Signalling Link Streams
opened on the driver.
.PP
The purpose of the SL-MUX driver is to provide a unified interface for accessing signalling links of
a number of forms and from a number of various drivers.  Signalling links could corespond to a
device driver, or could be M2UA signalling links, M2PA signalling links, or other implementations.
Each type of signalling link requries some additional configuration before they can be used and will
be linked under the SL-MUX by a separate configuration utility.  The
.B m2uaconf
utility is the utility used for the M2UA-AS driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B m2uaconf
provides the following command-line options:
.SS "Command Options"
.PP
One of the following mutually exclusive command options must be specified.  If no command options
are specified,
.B m2uaconf
will act as though the
.B -g
option was specified and print the configuration for all M2UA PPAs.
.TP
[{\fB-g\fP|\fB--get\fP} [{\fICLEI\fP|\fIPPA\fP} [\fI...\fR]]]
Get and display the configuration information associated with a specific set of CLEI or PPA, or get
and display information for all PPAs (if no arguments are specified).  The information is displayed
in the same format as contained in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.  This option can be used to obtain information about specific M2UA signalling
links, as well as providing the ablity to regenerate the
.B m2ua
entries in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.
(See
.RI \(lq EXAMPLES ,\(rq
below.)
.RS
.PP
Arguments consist of a whitespace separated list of one or more of the following arguments:
.TP
.I CLEI
A Common Language Equipment Identifier (CLEI) specifying a signalling link for which to display
information.
.TP
.I PPA
A global Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) specifying a signalling link for which to display
information.
.PP
If no arguments are supplied, the
.B m2uaconf
utility will display information for all signalling links of type
.BR m2ua .
.RE
.TP
{\fB-r\fP|\fB--remove\fP} [{\fICLEI\fP|\fIPPA\fP} [\fI...\fR]]
Remove signalling links from the SL-MUX multiplexer for a specific set of CLEI or PPA, or remove
signalling links for all PPAs (if no arguments are specified).
This option can be used by configuration scripts to remove specific M2UA signalling links from the SL-MUX driver.
.RS
.PP
Arguments consist of a whitespace separated list of one or more of the following arguments:
.TP
.I CLEI
A Common Language Equipment Identifier (CLEI) specifying a signalling link to remove.
.TP
.I PPA
A global Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) specifying a signalling link to remove.
.PP
If no arguments are supplied, the
.B m2uaconf
utility will remove all signalling links of type
.BR m2ua .
.RE
.TP
{\fB-a\fP|\fB--add\fP} \fICLEI\fP \fIPPA\fP \fIarguments\fR \fI...\fR
Add signalling links to the SL-MUX multiplexer for a specific signalling link.  The format of the
arguments are the same as for the
.B sl
entry in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.
This option can be used by configuration scripts to add specific M2UA signalling links to the SL-MUX driver.
.RS
.PP
Arguments consist of the following fields separated by whitespace:
.TP
.I clei
The Common Language Equipment Identifier (CLEI) to associate with the added signalling link.
.TP
.I ppa
The global Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) to associated with the added signalling link.
.TP
.I profile
Specifies thes signalling link profile to use, or the special value,
.RB \(lq default ,\(rq
specifying that the default signalling link profile is acceptable for the signalling lnik.  The
named profile, if other than
.RB \(lq default ,\(rq
must exist in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.
.TP
.I type
Always
.BR m2ua .
.TP
.I device
Specifies the device driver to open to create a signalling link Stream.  Typically
\(lq\fB/dev/m2ua-as\fINN\fR,\(rq
for the M2UA-AS driver,
where
.I NN
is the number of the ASP-SG relation to which the signalling link corresponds.
for the M2UA-AS driver.
.TP
.I modules
Modules to push on the opened Stream to form the signalling link.  Typically null
.RB ( - )
for the M2UA-AS driver.
.\".TP
.\".I version
.\"Always
.\".BR rfc3331
.\"specifying RFC 3331.
.\".[
.\"rfc3331
.\".]
.TP
.I sdli
Specifies the Signalling Data Link Interface value (16-bit integer value) to be used to identify
the signalling data link to external entities.
.TP
.I sdti
Specifies the Signalling Data Terminal Interface value (16-bit integer value) to be used to identify
the signalling data terminal to external entities.
.TP
.I iid
Specifies the interface identifier (either integer or text) to be used to identify the signalling
link to the Signalling Gateway.
If both integer and text Interface Identifiers are to be specified, this field is a comma separated
list consisting of integer IID and text IID.
.TP
.I mode
Specifies the traffic mode type for the application server.  This value can be one of the following
values:
.BR override ", " loadshare " or " broadcast .
.TP
.I sdl-profile
.TP
.I sdt-profile
.RE
.TP
{\fB-f\fP|\fB--file\fP} [\fIFILENAME\fR]
Add, remove, and configure signalling links according to the signalling links configuration
specified in the file,
.IR FILENAME .
If no
.I FILENAME
argument is specified, the default configuration file at
.B /etc/sysconfig/slconfd
is read.
The file specified by
.I FILENAME
must be in
.BR slconf (5)
format, and on the
.B m2ua
.I type
entries are processed by the
.B m2uaconf
utility.
.TP
{\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP|\fB-?\fP|\fB--?\fP}
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
{\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
{\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
When this option is encountered, print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
The file format is as described in
.BR slconf (5),
with the additional fields defined for devices of type
.B m2ua .
Signalling link specification line entries in the file consist of the following fields:
.PP
.B sl
.RI < clei >
.RI < global-ppa >
.RI < profile >
.RI < type >
.RI < device >
.RI < modules >
.RI < version >
.RI < sdli >
.RI < sdti >
.RI < iid >
.RI < sdl-profile >
.RI < sdt-profile >
.PP
Where,
.TP
.B sl
is the selector indicating that this is a signalling link definition entry.
.TP
.I clei
is a Common Language Equipment Identifier (CLEI) to be associated with this signalling link.
.TP
.I global-ppa
is a global Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) to be associated with this signalling link.
.TP
.I profile
is a signalling link protocol parameters profile used to configure this signalling link.  The
profile must either be the default entry,
.RI \(lq default ,\(rq
or must be defined in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.
.TP
.I type
Always
.BR m2ua .
.TP
.I device
is the device to open to create a signalling link Stream.  For the M2UA the device is normally
\(lq\fB/dev/m2ua-as\fINN\fR,\(lq
where
.I NN
is the number of the ASP-SG relation to which the signalling link corresponds.
.TP
.I modules
is the modules to push over the open device Stream necessary to create a signalling link Stream
supporting the Signalling Link Interface (SLI),
.BR sli (7).
This field is a comma-separated list of module names, with no intervening whitespace.  Modules are
pushed in the order in which they appear in the list.  For M2UA, the module list is normally null
and is specified as a single dash,
.RB ` - '.
.TP
.I version
is the protocol version for M2UA.  This field can be one of the following:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBrfc3332\fR\(em'u
.B rfc3331
RFC 3331
.[
rfc3331
.]
.RE
.TP
.I sdli
is the Signalling Data Link Identifier that is used to identify (to external entities) the physical
signalling data link.  This number is a 16-bit integer and many be Circuit Identification Code
(CIC).
.TP
.I sdti
is the Signalling Data Terminal Identifier that is used to identify (to external entities) the
termination of the signalling data link on a signalling terminal.
.TP
.I iid
is the interface identifier use to identify the signalling link to the remote Signalling Gateway.
When the above value,
.IR sdli " and " sdti
are defined, and this field is specified as default by using a single dash,
.RB ` - ',
and the SG supports dynamic configuration, then the
.IR sdli " and " sdti
fields will be used in a link key to register the signalling link with the remote Signalling Gateway
and obtain a dynamically registered Interface Identifier.
When an integer Interface Identifier is used, it should be the same as the global PPA.  When a text
Interface Identifier is used, it should be the same as the CLEI.
.TP
.I mode
is the traffic mode type for the signalling link interface.  The traffic mode type can take on
values as follows:
.BR override ", " loadshare " or " broadcast .
.TP
.I sdl-profile
is the signalling data link parameters profile to configure the signalling data link.  The profile
must either be the default entry consisting of a single dash,
.RB ` - ',
or must be defined in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.  It is also possible to place the parameter definitions in-line, or
modifications some parameter definitions, enclosed in braces,
.RB ( {} )
following either the profile name, or by themselves.
.TP
.I sdt-profile
is the signalling data terminal parameters profile to configure the signalling data terminal.  The profile
must either be the default entry consisting of a single dash,
.RB ` - ',
or must be defined in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.  It is also possible to place the parameter definitions in-line, or
modifications some parameter definitions, enclosed in braces,
.RB ( {} )
following either the profile name, or by themselves.
.PP
When the
.B -f
option is specified,
.B m2uaconf
opens the configuration file,
.IR FILENAME ,
and reads the entries line by line.  Each entry is independent of other entries.  For each entry of
.I type
.BR m2ua ,
.BR m2uaconf
performs the following actions:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The utility opens the device specified in the
.I device
field (typically,
.BR /dev/m2ua_as )
using the
.BR open (2s)
system call.  The utility then pushes the modules specified in the
.I modules
field (typically null) using the
.IR I_PUSH (7)
input-output control.
.IP 2.
The utility configures the signalling link using signalling link input-output controls in accordance
with the
.IR profile ", " sdt-profile " and " sdl-profile
values, using
.BR sli_ioctl (4),
.BR sdti_ioctl (4)
and
.BR sdli_ioctl (4)
input-output controls.
(Note that M2UA is incapable of providing the signalling link protocol values at the SG side of the
connection to the ASP side.)
.IP 3.
The utility attaches the signalling link using the concatenation of the Signalling Data Link
Identifier,
.IR sdli ,
and the Signalling Data Terminal Identifier,
.IR sdti ,
as a Physical Point of Attachment,
.IR lmi_ppa ,
in a
.BR LMI_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP 4.
The utility links the resulting signalling link Stream under the SL-MUx multiplexing driver using
the
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control and closes the file descriptor for the Stream.
.IP 5.
The utility uses the SL-MUX specific input-output controls to assign the
.IR clei ", " global-ppa " and " type
values to the linked signalling link.  Streams opened on the SL-MUX driver can then attach to this
Signalling Link using the global PPA or CLEI for the signalling link.
.PP
Once the
.B m2uaconf
utility has linked and configured all of the signalling link Streams specified on the command line,
or in the configuration file, it watches the configuration file for changes and effects those
changes when they occur.  Changes are effected by linking additional signalling links or unlinking
existing signalling links to alter the configuration of the SL-MUX to match that of the altered
configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SIGNALS
.PP
.TP
.RI { SIGHUP }
This signal causes the
.B m2uaconf
utility to reread the configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1) indicates that an
error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message is printed on
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
options suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B m2uaconf
has not known bugs.
Report problems to
.RI < bugs@openss7.org >.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR m2ua-as (4),
.BR sl-mux (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B m2uaconf
is an OpenSS7-specific configuration command.  Because this command is used at startup and is
transparent to the SL-User opening SL streams, compatibility is not an issue.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Configuration is not subject to standardization.
The utility conforms to OpenSS7 project specifications, coding and options standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B m2uaconf
configuration utility was first released in sigtran 0.9.2.2.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
