'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: m2uaasd.8.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/03/14 00:54:32 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/14 00:54:32 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: m2uaasd.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/03/14 00:54:32  brian
.\" - manpages for check maintenance target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/01/15 11:58:42  brian
.\" - added new m2ua-as mux files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M2UAASD 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.SH NAME
.B m2uaasd
\- M2UA-AS Configuration Daemon
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBm2uaasd\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBm2uaasd\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBm2uaasd\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBm2uaasd\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B m2uaasd
is a configuration daemon for the M2UA-AS multiplexing driver,
.BR m2ua_as (4).
Its purpose is to open a configuration file, establish SCTP assocations between the local host and
remote SG hosts, link the SCTP associations under the M2UA-AS multiplexing driver at the appropriate
ASP positions, configure each ASP using input-output controls and then wait in the background
listening for management events on a management stream.  Also, the daemon watches for updates to the
configuration file and applies the updates as they occur.
.PP
The
.B m2uaasd
is intended to be run at system startup from a System V init script.  Once the configuration of the
M2UA-AS multiplexing driver is complete, applications programs can open, attach, enable and use
Signalling Link streams opened on each of the configured ASPs.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
When this option is encountered,
print
usage
information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
.BR -V ", " --version
When this option is encountered,
print
version
information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
.BR -C ", " --copying
When this option is encountered,
print
copyright and copying
information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
When the
.BR -f " or " --file
.I filename
options is specified, the supplied file contains M2UA configuration entries as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Each line in the file contains one entry or comment per line.
.IP \(bu
Each entry consists of a number of fields delimited by whitespace (see
.RB isspace (3)).
.IP \(bu
Any field that begins with a
.RI ` # '
character is a comment that continues to the end of the line.
.IP \(bu
Any line containing only a comment (beginning with optional whitespace and a
.RI ` # '
character) is ignored.
.PP
Each line containing an M2UA configuration specification entry consists of the following fields:
.TP
(1) \fIcommand\fR
.PP
A Signalling Gateway entry is formatted as follows:
.RS
.TP
(1) \fBsg\fR
A command indicating that this is an SG entry.
.TP
(2) \fIindex\fR
A unique index number assigned to the SG.
.TP
(3) \fIclei\fR
A common language location identifier or common language equipment identifier for the SG.
.TP
(4) \fIoptions\fR
A comma separate option string indicating the options associated with the SG.  Options include
whether dynamic or static configuration is required or supported.
.TP
(5) \fIaddress\fR
The (SCTP) transport address at which this SG can be reached.  This address can be a hostname or a
numbers and dots IP address and port number.
.RE
.PP
An Application Service Process entry is formatted as follows:
.RS
.TP
(1) \fBasp\fR
A command indicating that this is an ASP entry.
.TP
(2) \fIindex\fR
A unique index number assigned to the ASP.  This index number is the minor device number on the
M2UA-AS driver that will be opened to obtain an AS Stream associated with this ASP.
.TP
(3) \fIclei\fR
A common language location identifier or common language equipment identifier for the ASP.
.TP
(4) \fIaspid\fR
An ASP identifier.  When no ASP identifier is used (the SG can determine the ASP Id from the
trasnport address with which the ASP is connecting), this field will contain a single dash,
.RI ` - '.
.TP
(5) \fIsg\fR
An SG index or SG CLEI identifying the SG serving this ASP.
.TP
(6) \fIaddress\fR
The (SCTP) transport address to which this ASP will bind.  This address can be a hostname or a
numbers and dots IP address and port number.
.TP
(7) \fIstreams\fR
The number of outbound streams that the ASP will request when it connects.
.RE
.PP
A Signalling Link profile entry is formatted as follows:
.RS
.TP
(1) \fBsl\fR
A command indicating that this is an SL profile entry.
.TP
(2) \fIprofile\fR
A profile name uniquely identifying this profile and distinguishing it from all others.
.TP
(3) \fIpvar\fR
The protocol variant.
.TP
(4) \fIpopt\fR
Protocol options.
.TP
(5) \fIsif-min\fR
The minimum size of the service information field in the SS7 SDU.
.TP
(6) \fIsif-max\fR
The maximum size of the service information field in the SS7 SDU.
.RE
.PP
An Application Server entry is formatted as follows:
.RS
.TP
(1) \fBas\fR
A command indicating that this is an AS entry.
.TP
(2) \fIasp\fR
An ASP index or ASP CLEI identifying the ASP serving this AS.
.TP
(3) \fIppa\fR
The physical point of appearance identifier for the AS.  This is the PPA address to which an SL
stream will attach to attach to this application server.  This field is any 32-bit integer number.
When dynamic registration is used, the high-order 16-bits corresponds to the SDTI and the low-order
16-bits corresponds to the SDLI used in the link key for registration.  When static registration is
used, this field can contain a single dash,
.RI ` - ',
to indicate that the IID is used as the PPA.
.TP
(4) \fIiid\fR
The integer or text interface identifier for the the AS.  When the serving SG supports dynamic
configuration, and this field is set to a single dash,
.RI ` - ',
dynamic registration will be used to determine the IID for the AS.  The SDLI and SDTI that are used
to register the AS will be derived from the high- and low-order 16 bits of the PPA.
.TP
(5) \fItmode\fR
The traffic mode for the application server.  Values can be:
.BR override ", " loadshare " or " broadcast .
This is the traffic mode for which the AS will activate.
.TP
(6) \fIprofile\fR
The SL profile name that defines the SS7 characteristics of the SS7 link provided by this
application server.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed on
.BR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message
is printed on
.BR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.BR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Note that while it is possible under the M2UA specifications to have one ASP being served by
multiple SGs, the M2UA-AS driver treats this as multiple ASPs from the point of view of
configuration.  However, because ASPs are logical entities, although the driver treats each ASP-SG
relation to be a separate ASP, they can be viewed externally as the same entity.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.BR m2ua (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/sysconfig/sigtran/m2uaasd.conf
The
.B m2uaasd
configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR m2ua_as (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B m2uaasd
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B m2uaasd
is an OpenSS7-specific configuration command.  Because this command is used at startup and is
transparent to the SL-User opening M2UA-AS streams, compatibility is not an issue.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
System configuration programs are not subject to standardization.
.B m2uaasd
conforms to OpenSS7 specifications.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B m2uaasd
first appeared in the OpenSS7
.B sigtran-0.9.2.2
package.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
