'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=100
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: m2uaasconf.8.man,v 0.9.2.3 2007/03/14 00:54:32 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/14 00:54:32 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: m2uaasconf.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/03/14 00:54:32  brian
.\" - manpages for check maintenance target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/01/26 21:54:31  brian
.\" - working up AS drivers and docs
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/01/21 20:20:07  brian
.\" - added documetation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M2UAASCONF 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.SH NAME
.B m2uaasconf
\- M2UA-AS Driver Configuration Utility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBm2uaasconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [[{\fB-l\fR|\fB--list\fR}] [\fISGID\fR [\fI...\fR]]]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBm2uaasconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-a\fR|\fB--add\fR} {[\fBsg\fR]|\fBkey\fR} \fISGID\fR \fIarguments\fR \fI...\fR
.HP
\fBm2uaasconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-c\fR|\fB--cha\fR} {[\fBsg\fR]|\fBkey\fR} \fISGID\fR \fIarguments\fR \fI...\fR
.HP
\fBm2uaasconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-d\fR|\fB--del\fR} {[\fBsg\fR]|\fBkey\fR} \fISGID\fR [\fIarguments\fR \fI...\fR]
.HP
\fBm2uaasconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-f\fR|\fB--file\fR} [\fIFILENAME\fR]
.HP
\fBm2uaasconf\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBm2uaasconf\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBm2uaasconf\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B m2uasconf
is a configuration utility for the M2UA-AS multiplexing driver,
.BR m2ua-as (4).
Its purpose is to open SCTP Streams, link them under the M2UA-AS driver, and configure them using
M2UA-AS driver input-output controls.
.PP
The
.B m2uasconf
utility is intended to be run at system startup from a System V init script, or when reconfiguration
of the M2UA-AS driver is necessary.  The utility can also be used to display the configuration of
the M2UA-AS driver at any time.  Once configuration of the M2UA-AS multiplexing driver is complete,
application programs (SL-Users) can open, attach, enable and use Signalling Link streams opened on
the driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B M2UAASCONF
provides the following command-line options:
.SS "Command Options"
.PP
One of the following mutually exclusive command options must be specified.  If no command options
are specified,
.B M2UAASCONF
will behave as though the
.B -l
option was specified and list the full configuration for the M2UA-AS driver.
.TP
[[\fB-l\fR, \fB--list\fR] [\fISGID\fR [\fI...\fR]]]
List the configuration information associated with a specified set of SGs, or list the configuration
information fo all SGs (if no arguments are specified).  The information is displayed in the same
format as contained in the
.BR m2uaasconf (5)
configuration file.  This option can be used to obtain information about specific M2UA-AS SGs, as
well as providing the ability to regenerate the M2UA-AS entries in the
.BR m2uaasconf (5)
configuration file.
.RS
.PP
Arguments consist of a whitespace separated list of SG identifiers.  Each SG identifier can consist
of a number (specifying the local integer SG identifier) or an ASCII string (specifying the global
SG Common Language Equipment Identifier).  When arguments are specified, the configuration
associated with the SG identified by each argument is listed.  When no arguments are specified, the
configuration for all SGs are listed.
.PP
The output format is one line per SG or Key entry and is consistent with the file format described
under
.RI \(lq "FILE FORMAT" \(rq,
below.
The
.B -o
option can be used to regenerate the configuration file.
.RE
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--add\fR {[\fBsg\fR]|\fBkey\fR} \fISGID\fR \fIarguments\fR \fI...\fR
Add an SG or Key configuration entry.  The format of the arguments are the same as for the
.B sg
or
.B key
entry in the configuraion file.
The argument format is consistent with the file format described under
.RI \(lq "FILE FORMAT" \(rq,
below.
The entry must not overlap with an existing entry or an error will result.
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--cha\fR {[\fBsg\fR]|\fBkey\fR} \fISGID\fR \fIarguments\fR \fI...\fR
Change an SG or Key configuration entry.  The format of the arguments are the same as for the
.B sg
or
.B key
entry in the configuration file.
The argument format is consistent with the file format described uder
.RI \(lq "FILE FORMAT" \(rq,
below.
The entry must uniquely identify an existing entry to alter or an error will result.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--del\fR {[\fBsg\fR]|\fBkey\fR} \fISGID\fR [\fIarguments\fR \fI...\fR]
Remove an SG or Key configuration entry.  The format of the arguments are the same as for the
.B sg
or
.B key
entry in the configuration file; however, only a sufficient number of arguments necessary to
uniquely identify the entry are necessary.  Therefore, an SG entry can be deleted by specifying only
the
.IR sgid .
Additional arguments are normally necessary to uniquely identify a Key entry for deletion.
If the entry does not exist or cannot be uniquely identified, an error will result.
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--file\fR [\fIFILENAME\fR]
Create SG and Key configuration entries using the configuration file,
.IR FILENAME ,
or, if
.I FILENAME
is not specified, the default configuration file.  The default configuration file depends on the
Linux distribution, but is normally
.BR /etc/sysconf/m2uaasconf .
Entries in the file are processed line by line and are added to the configuration as though the
.B --add
option were specified with the entry line fields as arguments.
.RS
.PP
See
.RI \(lq "FILE FORMAT" \(rq,
below, for a description of the configuration file format.
.RE
.PP
The following command options are common to all OpenSS7 project command line utilities:
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-H\fR, \fB-?\fR, \fB--?\fR
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered, print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.\"
.SS General Options
.PP
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Specifies that the caller
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
When the
\fB-f\fP, \fB--file\fP [\fIFILENAME\fP]
option is specified, the supplied file contains M2UA-AS configuration entries as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Each line in the file contains one entry or comment per line.
.IP \(bu
Each entry consists of a number of fields separated by whitespace.
.IP \(bu
Any field that begins with an octothorpe character,
.RB ` # ',
is a comment that continues to the end of the line.
.IP \(bu
Any line containing only a comment (beginning with optional whitespace followed by an octothorpe
character,
.RB ` # ')
is ignored.
.IP \(bu
Blank lines are ignored.
.PP
Each line containing an M2UA-AS configuration entry consists of either a
.B sg
entry or a
.B key
entry.
An
.B sg
entry begins with the string
.RB \(lq sg \(rq
in the first field.
A
.B key
entry begins with the string
.RB \(lq key \(rq
in the first field.
.SS SG Configuration Entries
.PP
Each line containing an M2UA-AS SG configuration entry consists of the following fields:
.ad l
.HP \w'\fBsg\fR\ 'u
.B sg
.RI < sgid >
.RI < aspid >
.RI < local-endpoint >
.RI < remote-endpoint >
.RI < streams >
.RI < version >
.RI < options >
.ad b
.PP
Where,
.TP
.I sgid
is an SG identifier that is an integer number locally identifying an ASP-SG relation (i.e. SCTP
association), or a Common Language Equipment Identifier used to globally identify the remote SG.
When both an integer and CLEI SG identifier are specified, they are separated by a comma with no
intervening withspace.
.TP
.I aspid
is an ASP Identifier that will be used in the ASP Up request to the SG.  If this field is specified
as a single dash,
.RB ( - ),
then no ASP Identifier will be used in the ASP Up request to the SG.
This field may also contain a Common Language Equipment Identifier used to globally identify the
ASP.  When both an integer and CLEI ASP identifier are specified, they are separated by a common
with no intervening whitespace.
.TP
.I local-endpoint
is the local endpoint address to which the SCTP association is bound to communicate with the remote
SG.  This can take the form:
{\fIhostname\fR|\fIipaddress\fR}[\fB,\fR{\fIhostname\fR|\fIipaddress\fR}][\fB:\fR{\fIport\fR|\fIservice\fR}].
The special hostname consisting of a single star,
.RB ( * ),
can be used to indicate a wildcard address.  When the wildcard address is used, only one
.IR hostname " or " ipaddress
can occur in the address.  If the
.IR port " or " service
is not specified, then a dynamic port number will be allocated.  If the
.I service
is specified as
.RB \(lq m2ua ,\(rq
then the M2UA registered (well-known) port number will be used.
.TP
.I remote-endpoint
is the remote endpoint address to which the SCTP association is connected to communicate with the
remote SG.  This can take the form:
{\fIhostname\fR|\fIipaddress\fR}[\fB,\fR{\fIhostname\fR|\fIipaddress\fR}][\fB:\fR{\fIport\fR|\fIservice\fR}].
If the
.IR port " or " service
is not specified, the M2UA registered (well-known) port number will be used.
.TP
.I streams
is the number of SCTP data streams that will be requested on connection with this SG.
.TP
.I version
is the version of the M2UA protocol that is supported by this SG.  The field can be a single dash
.RB ( - ),
indicating that the default is to be used; otherwise, one of the following values.
.RS
.TP
.B rfc3331
the SG supports Version 1 of the M2UA protocol as specified in RFC 3331.
.[
rfc3331
.]
.TP
.B ts102141
the SG supports Version 1 of the M2UA protocol as specified in RFC 3331 and modified by ETSI TS 102
141.
.[
ts 102 141
.]
.RE
.TP
.I options
is a list of comma-separated SG options, with no embedded whitespace.  Which defined options are
valid might depend upon the setting of
.IR version ,
above.  Options that are undefined or unsupported for a given
.I version
are ignored.  When no options are specified, this filed contains a single dash
.RB ( - ).
The following options are defined:
.RS
.TP
.B dynamic
When included in the options, this keyword specifies that the SG requires dynamic configuration
(registration).  If this option is not included, the SG requires static configuration (no
registration).
.RE
.SS Key Configuration Entries
.PP
Each line containing an M2UA-AS Key configuration entry consists of the following fields:
.ad l
.HP \w'\fBkey\fR\ 'u
.B key
.RI < sgid >
.RI < iid >
.RI < sdti >
.RI < sdli >
.RI < tmode >
.ad b
.PP
Where,
.TP
.I sgid
.TP
.I iid
.TP
.I sdti
.TP
.I sdli
.TP
.I tmode
.SS Procedures
.PP
The
.B m2uaasconf
utility, reads this configuration file and performs the following steps for each entry in the file:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The
.B m2uaasconf
utility opens an SCTP association by opening the
.B /dev/sctp_t
device, or the device specified with the
.B -s
option.
.IP 2.
The
.B m2uaasconf
utility opens a stream on the M2UA-AS driver using the
.B /dev/m2ua-as
device, or the device specified by the
.B -e
option, and links the SCTP stream under the M2UA-AS multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
input-output control.
The
.B m2uaasconf
utility can then close the file descriptor for the SCTP stream.
.IP 3.
The
.B m2uaasconf
utility uses the
.B M2UA_AS_IOCSCONFIG
input-output control to associated the lower multiplex SCTP stream with an ASP-SG relation.  The
input-output control takes the information provided in the configuration file line entry, and the
multiplexer identifier returned from the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
input-output control operation.  The M2UA-AS driver, in response to the
.B M2UA_AS_IOCSCONFIG
input-output control, complets the ASP-SG relation information as part of the lower multiplex stream
private structure.  The M2UA-AS driver also binds and connects the SCTP association and attempts to
bring the ASP to the ASP Up state with the remote SG.
.IP 4.
Steps 1 thorugh 3, above, are repeated for each entry in the configuration file.
.IP 5.
The utility can also open and attach signalling links streams and link them under the SL-MUX
multiplexing driver with a global PPA and CLEI.
.\"
.\"
.SH SIGNALS
.PP
.TP
.RI { SIGHUP }
This signal causes the
.B m2uaasconf
utility to reread the configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1) indicates that an
error occured and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message is printed on
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
options suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Sample configuration file:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-3\
1,EDTNAB55M2SGP01 1,EDTNAB55M2ASP01 localhost localhost:m2ua 257 ts102141 -
2,EDTNAB55M2SGP01 2,EDTNAB55M2ASP02 localhost localhost:m2ua 257 ts102141 -
3,EDTNAB55M2SGP02   EDTNAB55M2ASP03 localhost localhost:1000  33 rfc3331  dynamic
\s+3\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
Set the configuration according to the configuration file:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#> m2uaasconf -f ./sampleconf
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
Remove one entry:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#> m2uaasconf -d EDTNAB55M2SGP02
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
Add the removed entry back:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#> m2uaasconf -a 3,EDTNAB55M2SGP02 EDTNAB55M2ASP03 localhost localhost:1000 33 rfc3331 dynamic
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
List all entries:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#> m2uaasconf
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
List one entry:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#> m2uaasconf 3
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B m2uaasconf
has no known bugs.
Report problems to
.RI < bugs@openss7.org >.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR m2ua-as (4),
.BR sl-mux (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B m2uaasconf
is an OpenSS7-specific configuration command.  Because this command is used at startup and is
transparent to the SL-User opening SL streams, compatibility is not an issue.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Configuration is not subject to standardization.
The utility conforms to OpenSS7 project specifications, coding and options standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B m2uaasconf
configuration utility was first released in sigtran 0.9.2.2.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
