'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_ADDR_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CC_ADDR_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:11  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_ADDR_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_ADDR_ACK
\- provide call control address information
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of the message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block and its structure is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_addr_ack {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_ADDR_ACK */
    ulong cc_bind_length;       /* length of bound address */
    ulong cc_bind_offset;       /* offset of bound address */
    ulong cc_call_ref;          /* call reference */
    ulong cc_conn_length;       /* length of connected address */
    ulong cc_conn_offset;       /* offset of connected address */
} CC_addr_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive acknowledges the corresponding request primitive and is used by
the CCS provider to return information concerning the bound and connected
protocol addresses for the stream.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_ADDR_ACK .
.TP
.I cc_bind_length
Indicates the length of the bound call control address.
.TP
.I cc_bind_offset
Indicates the offset of the bound call control address.
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Indicates the call reference for the connected call control address.
.TP
.I cc_conn_length
Indicates the length of the connected call control address.
.TP
.I cc_conn_offset
Indicates the offset of the connected call control address.
.\"
.\"
.SS Rules
.IP \(em 4
If the requesting stream is not bound to a call control address, the CCS
provider will code the
.IR cc_bind_length " and " cc_bind_offset
fields to zero.
Otherwise, the CCS provider will return the same call control address that
was returned in the
.BR CC_BIND_ACK (7).
.IP \(em
If the requesting stream is not connected to a call, the CCS provider will
code the
.IR cc_conn_length " and " cc_conn_offset
fields to zero.  Otherwise, the CCS provider will indicate the call control
address (circuit) upon which the call is connected.
.\"
.\"
.SS State
This primitive is valid in state
.BR CCS_WACK_AREQ .
.\"
.\"
.SS "New State"
The new state is the state previous to the
.BR  CC_ADDR_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
This primitive is issued by the CC Provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Rules for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The bound address, indicated in
.IR cc_bind_length " and " cc_bind_offset ,
can be of any valid ISUP
.IR scope .
See
.BR cci_isup (7).
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The connected address, indicated in
.IR cc_conn_length " and " cc_conn_offset ,
will always be of
.I scope
.BR ISUP_SCOPE_CT .
.\"
.\"
.SS "Rules for Q.931/932 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The bound address, indicated in
.IR cc_bind_length " and " cc_bind_offset ,
can be of any valid ISDN
.IR scope .
See
.BR cci_isdn (7).
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The connected address, indicated in
.IR cc_conn_length " and " cc_conn_offset ,
will always be of
.I scope
.BR ISDN_SCOPE_CH .
.\"
.\"
.PP
.SS "Rules for H.225.0 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The bound address, indicated in
.IR cc_bind_length " and " cc_bind_offset ,
can be of any valid H225
.IR scope .
See
.BR cci_h225 (7).
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The connected address, indicated in
.IR cc_conn_length " and " cc_conn_offset ,
will always be of
.I scope
.BR H225_SCOPE_CT .
.\"
.\"
.SS "Rules for BSSAP conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The bound address, indicated in
.IR cc_bind_length " and " cc_bind_offset ,
can be of any valid BSSAP
.IR scope .
See
.BR cci_bssap (7).
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The connected address, indicated in
.IR cc_conn_length " and " cc_conn_offset ,
will always be of
.I scope
.BR GSMA_SCOPE_CT .
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
