'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_ADDR_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_ADDR_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_ADDR_REQ
\- request call control address information
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of the message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block and its structure is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_addr_req {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_ADDR_REQ */
    ulong cc_call_ref;          /* call reference */
} CC_addr_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the CCS provider return information concerning
the call control addresses upon which the CCS user is bound or engage in a
call.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_ADDR_REQ .
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Specifies the call reference for which to obtain the connected address.
.\"
.\"
.SS Rules
.PP
.IP \(em 4
If the call reference is specified as zero (0) and there is more than one
connected call associated with the stream, then the connection information
returned in the
.BR CC_ADDR_ACK (7)
is unspecified.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the call reference is specified as zero (0) and there is only one call
associated with the stream, then the connection information returned in the
.BR CC_ADDR_ACK (7)
will be for the connected call.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the call reference is specified and non-zero, then the connection
information returned in the
.BR CC_ADDR_ACK (7)
will be for the specified call.
.\"
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in any state.
.\"
.\"
.SS "New State"
.PP
The new state is
.BR CCS_WACK_AREQ .
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid in all modes.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
.PP
The CCS provider will generate on of the following acknowledgments upon
receipt of the
.B CC_ADDR_REQ
primitive:
.HP
.IR "Successful" :
Correct acknowledgment of the primitive is indicated via the
.BR CC_ADDR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.HP
.IR "Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors)" :
These errors will be indicated via the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.RB [ CCBADCLR ]
The call reference specified in the primitive was incorrect or illegal.
.TP
.RB [ CCSYSERR ]
A system error occurred and the UNIX system error is indicated in the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
See
.BR CC_ADDR_ACK (7)
for protocol-specific rules.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
