'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_ALERTING_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:57:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_ALERTING_REQ 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:53 $" "$Name:  $" "Call Control Interface"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_ALERTING_REQ
\- called CCS user alerted request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_alerting_req {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_ALERTING_REQ */
    ulong cc_call_ref;          /* call reference */
    ulong cc_flags;             /* alerting flags */
    ulong cc_opt_length;        /* options length */
    ulong cc_opt_offset;        /* options offset */
} CC_alerting_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the CCS provider indicate to the calling CCS user
that the called CCS user is being alerted.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_ALERTING_REQ .
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Specifiesthe call reference.  It is used by the CCS provider to identify the call.
.TP
.I cc_flags
Specifies the alerting flags associated with the alerting request.  Alerting
flags are protocol specific (see Addendum).
.TP
.I cc_opt_length
Specifies the length of the options associated with the alerting
indication.
.TP
.I cc_opt_offset
Specifies the offset of the options from the start of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.\".SS Rules
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primiitve is valid in states
.BR CCS_WREQ_MORE ", " CCS_WREQ_PROCEED " and " CCS_WREQ_ALERTING .
The new state is
.BR CCS_WREQ_PROGRESS .
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid in UNI mode (User or Network) or NNI mode.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
.PP
The CCS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgments upon
receipt of this primitive:
.HP
.IR "Successful" :
Successful completion is indicated via the
.BR CC_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.
.HP
.IR "Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors)" :
Errors are indicated via the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ CCSYSERR ]
A system error occurred and the UNIX system error is indicated in the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ CCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADCLR ]
The call reference specified in the primitive was incorrect or illegal.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADFLAG ]
The specified flags contained incorrect or unsupported information.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADOPT ]
The options were in an incorrect format, or contained illegal information.
.TP
.RB [ CCACCESS ]
The user did not have proper permissions for the use of the requested address or options.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADPRIM ]
The primitive is of an incorrect format or an offset exceeds the size of the
.B M_PROTO
block.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
See the specific protocol documentation for formats and rules governing
options.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
