'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_ALERTING_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:57:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_ALERTING_IND 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:53 $" "$Name:  $" "Call Control Interface"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_ALERTING_IND
\- called CCS User alerted indication
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_alerting_ind {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_ALERTING_IND */
    ulong cc_call_ref;          /* call reference */
    ulong cc_flags;             /* alerting flags */
    ulong cc_opt_length;        /* options length */
    ulong cc_opt_offset;        /* options offset */
} CC_alerting_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the calling CCS user that the called CCS user is
being alerted.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_ALERTING_IND .
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Indicates the call reference.  The call reference is used by the CCS provider
to identify the call.
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the alerting flags.
.TP
.I cc_opt_length
Indicates the length of the options associated with the alerting indication.
If no options are associated with the alerting indication, then this parameter
must be coded zero.
.TP
.I cc_opt_offset
Indicates the offset of the options from the start of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.\".SS Rules
.\"
.\"
.SS State
This primitive is valid in states
.BR CCS_WREQ_MORE ", " CCS_WIND_PROCEED " and " CCS_WIND_ALERTING .
The new state is
.BR CCS_WIND_PROGRESS .
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
This primitive is valid in UNI mode (User or Network) or NNI mode.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
This primitive is issued by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
See the specific protocol documentation for formats and rules governing
options.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
