'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_BLOCKING_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-29 07:10:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CC_BLOCKING_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-29 07:10:21  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:11  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_BLOCKING_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_BLOCKING_IND
\- circuit management blocking indication
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_blocking_ind {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_BLOCKING_IND */
    ulong cc_flags;             /* blocking flags */
    ulong cc_addr_length;       /* address length */
    ulong cc_addr_offset;       /* address offset */
} CC_blocking_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates that the peer CCS user has requested that the
specified call control address(es) (signalling interface and circuit
identifiers) be remotely blocked.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_BLOCKING_IND .
.TP
.I cc_flags
Specifies the options flags.  See
.IR \*(lqFlags\*(rq ,
below.
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the call control address(es) (signalling interface and
circuit identifiers) that the peer CCS user has requested to be remotely
blocked.
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Specifies the offset of the call control address(es) from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SS Flags
The options flags are protocol and provider-specific.  For additional
information, see the specific Addendum.
.\"
.\"
.SS State
This primitive will only be issued by the CCS provider if the remote blocking
state of the specified address(es) is
.BR CCS_UNBLOCKED " or " CCS_BLOCKED .
The new remote blocking state will be
.B CCS_WRES_BLIND
for the specified call control addresses.
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
This primitive will only be issued by the CCS provider for signalling
interfaces in the NNI mode.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
This primitive is only currently supported for ISUP conforming CCS providers
and will not be issued by any other provider.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The
.I cc_flags
is a bitwise OR of any of the following flags:
.RS
.TP
.B ISUP_GROUP
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a
group of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the
specified call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a
circuit group identifier.
.TP
.B ISUP_MAINTENANCE_ORIENTED
When set, this flag confirms that the operation to be performed is for
maintenance oriented blocking.
.TP
.B ISUP_HARDWARE_FAILURE_ORIENTED
When set, this flag confirms that the operation to be performed is for
hardware failure oriented blocking.
.RE
.\"
.IP \(em
One and only one of
.BR ISUP_MAINTENANCE_ORIENTED " and " ISUP_HARDWARE_FAILURE_ORIENTED
must be set.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
When
.B ISUP_HARDWARE_FAILURE_ORIENTED
is set,
.B ISUP_GROUP
is implied and need not be indicated by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
When
.B ISUP_GROUP
is set, the call control address must be an address of scope
.BR ISUP_SCOPE_CG ;
when not set,
.BR ISUP_SCOPE_CT .
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
