'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_BLOCKING_REQ.7,v 0.9 2004/01/17 08:01:14 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:14 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_BLOCKING_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:14 $" "$Name:  $" "Call Control Interface"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_BLOCKING_REQ
\- circuit management blocking request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_blocking_req {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_BLOCKING_REQ */
    ulong cc_flags;             /* blocking flags */
    ulong cc_addr_length;       /* address length */
    ulong cc_addr_offset;       /* address offset */
} CC_blocking_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive request that the CCS provider locally block the specified call
control address(es) (signalling interface and circuit or circuit group) with
the peer CCS user.  For the NNI, this primitive supports both the Circuit
Blocking Service as well as the Circuit Group Blocking Service.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_BLOCKING_REQ .
.TP
.I cc_flags
specifies options flags for the operation.  (See
.IR \*(lqFlags\*(rq ,
below.)
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
specifies the length of the call control address (signalling interface and
circuit or circuit group identifiers) upon which local blocking is requested.
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
specifies the offset of the call control address(es) from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SS Flags
.PP
The options flags are protocol and provider-specific.  For additional
information, see the specific Addendum.
.\"
.\"
.SS Rules
.PP
The following rules apply to the blocking of call control addresses
(signalling interface and circuit or circuit group identifiers):
.IP \(em 4
If the stream upon which the blocking request is issued is not bound (see
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)),
the call control address must contain a signalling interface identifier and a
circuit or circuit group identifier.
.IP \(em
If the stream upon which the blocking request is bound to a signalling
interface and trunk group, and no call control address(es) are provided (i.e,
.I cc_addr_length
is set to zero), the CCS provider may interpret the primitive to be requesting
blocking on all circuits in the trunk group.
.IP \(em
At any time that the primitive is issued without specifying a call control
address (i.e,
.I cc_addr_length
is zero), the CCS provider may assign a call control address or addresses.
.IP \(em
If the CCS provider fails to assign a call control address or addresses, the
primitive will fail with error
.RB [ CCNOADDR ].
.\"
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.B CCS_IDLE
for the requested address(es).  The new state is
.B CCS_WCON_BLREQ
for the specified address(es).
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is only valid for call control address(es) (signalling
interfaces) in the NNI mode.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
.PP
The CCS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgments upon
receipt of this primitive.
.HP
.IR Successful :
Successful completion is indicated via the
.BR CC_BLOCKING_CON (7)
primitive.
.HP
.IR Unsuccessful:
Unsuccessful completion is indicated via the
.BR CC_RELEASE_IND "(7) or " CC_RESET_IND
primitive.
.HP
.IR "Non-fatal errors" :
Errors are indicated via the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.RB [ CCACCESS ]
The user did not have sufficient permission to invoke the operation on the
specified addresses.
.TP
.RB [ CCFLAGS ]
The flags were invalid or unsupported.
.TP
.RB [ CCNOADDR ]
An address or addresses was not provided by the CCS user (i.e.,
.I cc_addr_length
set to zero) and the CCS provider could not assign an address or addresses.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADADDR ]
The call control address contained in the primitive were illegaly formatted or
contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ CCNOTSUPP ]
The primitive is not supported for the UNI interface and a UNI signalling
interface identifier was provided in the call control address.
.TP
.RB [ CCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state for the requested address(es).
.TP
.RB [ CCSYSERR ]
A system error occurred and the UNIX system error is indicated in the
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
