'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_CONT_TEST_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CC_CONT_TEST_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:11  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_CONT_TEST_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_CONT_TEST_REQ
\- continuity test request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of this message is on
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_cont_test_req {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_CONT_TEST_REQ */
    ulong cc_call_ref;          /* call reference */
    ulong cc_token_value;       /* token value */
} CC_cont_test_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This message is used either to respond to a
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
primitive which contains the
.B ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED
flag, or to respond to a
.BR CC_CONT_CHECK_IND (7)
primitive.  Before responding to either primitive, the CCS User should install
a loop back device on the requested channel and then respond with this
response primitive to confirm the loop back.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_REQ .
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Indicates the call reference of the
.B CC_CONT_TEST_REQ
message.  It is used by the CCS provider to associate the
.B CC_CONT_TEST_REQ
message with an outstanding
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
message.  An invalid call reference should result in error with the error type
.RB [ CCBADCLR ].
.TP
.I cc_token_value
Is used to identify the stream that the CCS user wants to establish the
continuity check call on.  (Its value is determined by the CCS user by issuing
a
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive with the
.B CC_TOKEN_REQUEST
flag set.  The token value is returned in the
.BR CC_BIND_ACK (7).)
The value of this field should be non-zero when the CCS user wants to
establish the call on a stream other than the stream on which the
.BR CC_CONT_CHECK_IND (7)
arrived.  If the CCS user wants to establish a call on the same stream that
the
.BR CC_CONT_CHECK_IND (7)
arrived on, then the value of this field should be zero.
.\"
.\"
.SS Rules
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.BR CKS_WREQ_CTEST .
The new state is
.BR CKS_WIND_CCREP .
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid only in NNI mode.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENT
.PP
The CCS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgments upon
receipt of this primitive:
.HP
.IR Successful :
Successful completion is indicated via the
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_IND (7)
in the case that the primitive was issued in response to a
.BR CC_SETUP_IND "(7) or " CC_RELEASE_IND (7)
primitive in the case that the primitive was issued in response to the
.BR CC_CONT_CHECK_IND (7)
primitive.
.HP
.IR Unsuccessful :
Unsuccessful completion is indicated via the
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_IND (7)
primitive.
.HP
.IR "Non-fatal errors" :
Errors are indicated via the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.RB [ CCSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the UNIX system error is indicated in the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ CCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADCLR ]
The call reference specified in the primitive was incorrect or illegal.
.TP
.RB [ CCACCESS ]
The user did not have proper permissions for the operation.
.TP
.RB [ CCNOTSUPP ]
The CCS provider does not support the operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
