'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_CONT_TEST_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-29 07:10:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CC_CONT_TEST_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-29 07:10:21  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:11  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_CONT_TEST_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_CONT_TEST_IND
\- continuity test indication
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of this message is on
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_cont_test_ind {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_CONT_TEST_IND */
    ulong cc_call_ref;          /* call reference */
    ulong cc_addr_length;       /* address length */
    ulong cc_addr_offset;       /* address offset */
} CC_cont_test_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This message confirms to the testing CCS user that a loop back device has been
(or will be) installed on the specified call control address (circuit).  Upon
receiving this message, the testing CCS user should connect tone generation
and detection equipment to the specified circuit, perform the continuity test
and issue a report using the
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.PP
This primitive will only be issued to streams successfully bound with the
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive with a non-zero number of setup indications and the
.B CC_TEST
bind flag set.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_IND .
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Indicates the call reference associated with the continuity check call for the
specified call control address (circuit identifier).
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the call control address (signalling interface and
circuit identifier) upon which a continuity check is confirmed.  The semantics
of the values in the
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_IND (7)
is identical to the values in the
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7).
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the connecting address from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.\".SS Rules
.\"
.\"
.SS State
This primitive is valid in state
.BR CCS_WCON_CREQ .
The new state is
.BR CCS_WAIT_COR .
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
This primitive is valid only in NNI mode.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
