'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ.7,v 0.9 2004/01/17 08:01:14 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:14 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:14 $" "$Name:  $" "Call Control Interface"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ
\- continuity report request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_cont_report_req {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ */
    ulong cc_user_ref;          /* user call reference */
    ulong cc_call_ref;          /* call reference */
    ulong cc_result;            /* result of continuity check */
} CC_cont_report_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the CCS provider indicate to the called CCS user
that the continuity check succeeded or failed.  The CCS user should remove any
continuity test tone generator/detection device from the circuit and verify
silent code loop back before issuing this primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ .
.TP
.I cc_user_ref
specifies the CCS user reference of the associated
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitive.  This value is non-zero when the
.B CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ
primitive is issued subsequent to a
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitive which had the flag
.B ISUP_NCI_CONTINUITY_CHECK_PREVIOUS
set to indicate the result of the continuity check on the previous circuit.
Otherwise, this value is coded zero.
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
specifies the call reference of the associated
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_IND (7)
primitive for the continuity check call.  This value is non-zero when the
.B CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ
primitive is issued in response to a
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_IND (7)
primitive.  Otherwise, this value is coded zero.
.TP
.I cc_result
specifies the result of the continuity test, whether success or failure.  The
value of the cc_result is protocol specific.  For values representing success
and values representing failure, see the Addendum.
.\"
.\"
.SS Rules
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.BR CCS_WREQ_CCREP .
When issued in response to the
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_IND (7)
primitive, the new state is
.BR CCS_IDLE .
When issued subsequent to a
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitive, the new state is either
.BR CCS_WREQ_MORE " or " CCS_WREQ_PROCEED ,
depending upon whether the sent address contain an ST pulse.
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid only in NNI mode.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENT
.PP
The CCS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgments upon
receipt of this primitive:
.HP
.IR Successful :
Successful completion is indicated via the
.BR CC_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.IR "Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors)" :
Errors are indicated via the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.RB [ CCSYSERR ]
A system error occurred and the UNIX system error is indicated in the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ CCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADCLR ]
The call reference specified in the primitive was incorrect or illegal.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADPRIM ]
The primitive format was incorrect.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
