'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_CONT_CHECK_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/04/17 23:05:04 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:04 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_CONT_CHECK_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:04 $" "$Name:  $" "Call Control Interface"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_CONT_CHECK_REQ
\- continuity check request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_cont_check_req {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_CONT_CHECK_REQ */
    ulong cc_addr_length;       /* adress length */
    ulong cc_addr_offset;       /* adress offset */
} CC_cont_check_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the CCS provider perform a continuity check procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_CONT_CHECK_REQ .
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Specifies the length of the call control address (circuit identifier) upon
which the CCS user is requesting a continuity check.
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Specifies the offset of the call control address from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SS Rules
.PP
The following rules apply to the continuity check of call control addresses
(circuit identifiers):
.IP \(em 4
If the CCS user does not specify a call control address (i.e, cc_addr_length
is set to zero), then the CCS provider may attempt to assign a call control
address and associate it with the stream for the duration of the continuity
test procedure.  This can be useful for automated continuity testing.
.\"
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.B CCS_IDLE
for the selected circuit.
The new state is
.B CKS_WIND_CTEST
for the selected address.
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is only valid in the NNI mode.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
.PP
The CCS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgments upon
receipt of this primitive:
.HP
.IR Successful :
Successful completion is indicated via the
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_IND (7)
primitive.
.HP
.IR "Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors)" :
Errors are indicated via the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7) primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ CCSYSERR ]
A system error occurred and the UNIX system error is indicated in the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ CCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CCNOADDR ]
The call control address was not provided (cc_addr_length coded zero).
.TP
.RB [ CCBADADDR ]
The call control address contained in the primitive were poorly formatted or
contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ CCNOTSUPP ]
The primitive is not supported for the UNI interface and a UNI signalling
address was provided in the call control address or the address was issued to
a UNI CCS provider.
.TP
.RB [ CCACCESS ]
The user did not have sufficient permission to perform the operation on the
specified call control addresses.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
