'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_CONNECT_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_CONNECT_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_CONNECT_IND
\- connection indication
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_connect_ind {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_CONNECT_IND */
    ulong cc_call_ref;          /* call reference */
    ulong cc_flags;             /* connect flags */
    ulong cc_opt_length;        /* optional parameter length */
    ulong cc_opt_offset;        /* optional parameter offset */
} CC_connect_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates that the called CCS user has connected to the call.
Upon receving this primitive the CCS user operating in UNI (Network) mode
should connect the calling CCS user to the call and acknowledge connection of
the calling CCS user by responding with the
.BR CC_SETUP_COMPLETE_REQ (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_CONNECT_IND .
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Indicates the call reference.  The call reference is used by the CCS provider
to identify the call.  The call reference is the same value which was
indicated in the corresponding
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
primitive for the outgoing call.
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the connect flags associated with the primitive.  Connect flags are
protocol specific (see Addendum).
.TP
.I cc_opt_length
Indicates the length of the optional parameters associated with the connect
indication.  If no optional parameters are associated with the connect
indication, then this parameter is coded zero by the CCS provider.
.TP
.I cc_opt_offset
Indicates the offset of the optional parameters from the start of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.\".SS Rules
.\"
.\"
.SS State
This primitive is valid in state
.BR CCS_WIND_SCOMP .
The new state is
.BR CCS_CONNECTED .
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
This primitive is valid in NNI mode and in UNI (Network) mode.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
