'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_INFORMATION_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-29 07:10:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CC_INFORMATION_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-29 07:10:21  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:11  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_INFORMATION_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_INFORMATION_REQ
\- information request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of this message is on
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_information_req {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_INFORMATION_REQ */
    ulong cc_user_ref;          /* call reference */
    ulong cc_subn_length;       /* subsequent number length */
    ulong cc_subn_offset;       /* subsequent number offset */
    ulong cc_opt_length;        /* optional parameter length */
    ulong cc_opt_offset;        /* optional parameter offset */
} CC_information_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This message request that the CCS provider include the subsequent number
information in addition to the called party number information previously
supplied with a
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_INFORMATION_REQ .
.TP
.I cc_user_ref
Specifies the user call reference.  It is used by the CCS user to associate
the message with an outstanding
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
message.
.TP
.I cc_subn_length
Specifies the length of the subsequent called party address parameter that
conveys more of an address identifying the CCS user to which the call is to be
established.  This field will accommodate variable length addresses within a
range supported by the CCS provider.  If no subsequent called party address is
provided by the CCS user, this field must be coded to zero.  The coding of the
subsequent called party address is protocol and provider-specific.
.TP
.I cc_subn_offset
Is the offset of the subsequent called party address from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.TP
.I cc_opt_length
Specifies the length of the optional parameters associated with the alerting
indication.
.TP
.I cc_opt_offset
Specifies the offset of the optional parameters from the start of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SS Rules
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.BR CCS_WIND_MORE " and " CCS_WREQ_INFO .
The new state is
.B CCS_WIND_MORE
if the subsequent number still does not contain complete address information or
.B CCS_WIND_PROCEED
if it does.
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid in UNI (both User and Network) and NNI.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENT
.PP
The CCS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgments upon receipt of this primitive:
.HP
.IR Successful :
Successful completion is indicated via the
.BR CC_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.
.HP
.IR "Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors)" :
Errors are indicated via the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.RB [ CCNOADDR ]
The user did not provide a subsequent called party address field and one was
required by the call type.  The CCS provider could not select a called party
address.
.TP
.RB [ CCSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the UNIX system eror is indicated in the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ CCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADCLR ]
The specified call reference was invalid.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADADDR ]
The subsequent called party address was in the incorrect format, or contained
illegal information.  This is used only to handle coding errors of the address
and is not intended to provide for protocol errors.  Protocol errors should be
conveyed in the
.BR CC_CALL_FAILURE_IND " or " CC_RELEASE_IND
primitives.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADOPT ]
The optional parameters were in an incorrect format, or contained illegal
information.
.TP
.RB [ CCACCESS ]
The user did not have proper permissions for the use of the requested address
or options.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADPRIM ]
The primitive is of an incorrect format or an offset exceeds the size of the
.B M_PROTO
block.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
