'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_OPTMGMT_REQ.7,v 0.9 2004/01/17 08:01:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_OPTMGMT_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:15 $" "$Name:  $" "Call Control Interface"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_OPTMGMT_REQ
\- options management request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of the message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block, and its structure is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_optmgmt_req {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_OPTMGMT_REQ */
    ulong cc_call_ref;          /* call reference */
    ulong cc_opt_length;        /* length of option values */
    ulong cc_opt_offset;        /* offset of option values */
    ulong cc_opt_flags;         /* option flags */
} CC_optmgmt_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive allows the CCS user to manage the call processing parameter
values associated with the stream.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_OPTMGMT_REQ .
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Specifies the call reference for which to manage options.
.TP
.I cc_opt_length
Specifies the length of the default values of the options parameters as
selected by the CCS user.  These values will be used in subsequent
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitives on the stream that do not specify values for these options.  If the
CCS user cannot determine the value of an option, it value should be set to
.BR CC_UNKNOWN .
If the CCS user does not specify any option paramter values, the length of
this field should be set to zero.
.TP
.I cc_opt_offset
Specifies the offset of the options parameters from the beginning of the M_PROTO message block.
.TP
.I cc_opt_flags
See
.IR \*(lqFlags\*(rq ,
below.
.\"
.\"
.SS Flags
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in the
.B CCS_IDLE
state.  The new state is
.BR CCS_WACK_OPTREQ .
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid in all modes.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
.PP
The CC_OPTMGMT_REQ primitive requires the CCS provider to generate one of the following acknowledgments upon receipt
of the primitive:
.HP
.IR "Successful" :
Acknowledgment is via the
.BR CC_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.  At successful completions, the resulting state is
.BR CCS_IDLE .
.HP
.IR "Non-fatal errors" :
These errors are indicated in the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.  The resulting state remains unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.RB [ CCSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the UNIX system error is indicated in the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ CCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADOPT ]
The option parameter values specified are outside the range supported by the
CCS provider.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADCLR ]
The call reference specified in the primitive was incorrect or illegal.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADFLAG ]
The flags were invalid or unsupported, or the combination of flags was invalid.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADPRIM ]
The primitive format was incorrect (i.e. too short).
.TP
.RB [ CCACCESS ]
The user did not have proper permissions.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
