'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_RESET_CON.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:24 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:24 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_RESET_CON 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_RESET_CON
\- circuit reset confirmation
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive confirms to the requesting CCS user that the specified call
control address(es) (signalling interface and circuit identifiers) have been
successfully confirmed reset to the peer CCS user.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_RESET_CON .
.TP
.I cc_flags
Specifies options flags for the operation.  (See
.IR \*(lqFlags\*(rq ,
below.)
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the call control address(es) (signalling interface and
circuit identifiers) upon which the CCS provider has confirmed a reset.
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the call control address(es) (signalling interface and
circuit identifiers) from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SS Flags
The options flags are protocol and provider-specific.  For additional
information, see the specific Addendum.
.\"
.\"
.SS State
This primitive is valid in state
.B CCS_WCON_RESREQ
for the specified addresses.  The new state is
.B CCS_IDLE
for the specified addresses.
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
This primitive will only be issued by the CCS provider for call control
addresses in the NNI mode.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
This primitive is issued by the CC Provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
