'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_RESET_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:24 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:24 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_RESET_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_RESET_REQ
\- circuit reset request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_reset_req {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_RESET_REQ */
    ulong cc_flags;             /* reset flags */
    ulong cc_addr_length;       /* address length */
    ulong cc_addr_offset;       /* address offset */
} CC_reset_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the CCS provider reset the specified call control
address(es) (signalling interface and circuit identifiers) with the CCS user
peer.  For the NNI this primitive supports both the Circuit Reset Service as
well as the Circuit Group Reset Service.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_RESET_REQ .
.TP
.I cc_flags
Specifies options flags for the operation.  (See
.IR \*(lqFlags\*(rq ,
below.)
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the call control address (signalling interface and
circuit identifiers) upon which a reset is requested.  The semantics of the
values in the
.BR CC_RESET_REQ (7)
is identical to the values in the
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7).
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the reporting address from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SS Flags
.PP
The options flags are protocol and provider-specific.  For additional
information, see the specific Addendum.
.\"
.\"
.SS Rules
.PP
The following rules apply to the reset of call control addresses (signalling
interface and circuit identifiers):
.IP \(em 4
The call control address must contain a signalling interface identifier and
one or more circuit identifiers.
.IP \(em
The signalling interface identifier must identify an NNI signalling interface.
.IP \(em
When the call control address contains one circuit identifier, a non-group
reset will be performed.
.IP \(em
When the call control address contains more than one circuit identifier, the
CCS provider may either issue individual circuit resets, or may issue one or
more group circuit resets.
.\"
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.B CCS_IDLE
for the requested address(es).  The
new state is
.B CCS_WCON_RESREQ
for the specified address(es).
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is only valid for call control address(es) in the NNI mode.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENT
.PP
The CCS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgments upon
receipt of this primitive:
.HP
.IR "Successful" :
Successful completion is indicated via the
.BR CC_RESET_CON (7)
primitive.
.HP
.IR "Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors)" :
Errors are indicated via the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.RB [ CCACCESS ]
The user did not have sufficient permission to perform the operation on the
specified call control addresses.
.TP
.RB [ CCNOADDR ]
The call control address was not provided (cc_addr_length coded zero).
.TP
.RB [ CCBADADDR ]
The call control address(es) contained in the primitive were poorly formatted
or contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ CCNOTSUPP ]
The primitive is not supported for the UNI interface and a UNI signalling
interface identifier was provided in the call control address.
.TP
.RB [ CCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state for the requested address(es).
.TP
.RB [ CCSYSERR ]
A system error occurred and the UNIX system error is indicated in the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
