'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_RESUME_REQ.7,v 0.9 2004/01/17 08:01:16 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:16 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_RESUME_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:16 $" "$Name:  $" "Call Control Interface"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_RESUME_REQ
\- call resume request
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_resume_req {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_RESUME_REQ */
    ulong cc_call_ref;          /* call reference */
    ulong cc_flags;             /* suspend flags */
    ulong cc_opt_length;        /* optional parameter length */
    ulong cc_opt_offset;        /* optional parameter offset */
} CC_resume_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This message requests that the CCS provider resume a previously suspended call.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_RESUME_REQ .
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Specifies the call reference.  The call reference is used by the CCS user to
identify the call to the CCS provider.  The value should be the same as the
value indicated by the CCS provider in a previous
.BR CC_SETUP_IND "(7) or " CC_SETUP_CON (7)
primitive.
.TP
.I cc_flags
Specifies the options associated with the resume.  Resume flags are provider
and protocol dependent (see Addendum).
.TP
.I cc_opt_length
Specifies the length of the optional parameters associated with the resume
request.  If no optional parameters are associated with the resume request,
then this parameter must be coded zero.
.TP
.I cc_opt_offset
Specifies the offset of the optional parameters from the start of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.  If no optional parameter are associated with the resume
request, then this parameter must be coded zero.
.\"
.\"
.\" .SS Rules
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.BR CCS_SUSPENDED .
The new state is
.B CCS_CONNECTED
if the call is not still suspended in the opposite direction or another sense
(network or user), otherwise the new state remains
.BR CCS_SUSPENDED .
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid in mode UNI (User) and NNI.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
.PP
The CCS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgments upon
receipt of this primitive:
.HP
.IR "Successful" :
Successful completion is indicated via the
.BR CC_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.
.HP
.IR "Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors)" :
Errors are indicated via the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.RB [ CCSYSERR ]
A system error occurred and the UNIX system error is indicated in the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADPRIM ]
The primitive was of an incorrect format (i.e. too small, or an offset is out
of range).
.TP
.RB [ CCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADCLR ]
The call reference specified in the primitive was incorrect or illegal.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADOPT ]
The options values as specified in the primitive were in an incorrect format,
or they contained illegal information.
.TP
.RB [ CCACCESS ]
The user did not have proper permissions to request the operation or to use
the options specified.
.TP
.RB [ CCNOTSUPP ]
The specified primitive type is not known to or not supported by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
