'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_SETUP_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CC_SETUP_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:12  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_SETUP_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_SETUP_IND
\- call setup indication
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of the message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_setup_ind {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_SETUP_IND */
    ulong cc_call_ref;          /* call reference */
    ulong cc_call_type;         /* call type */
    ulong cc_call_flags;        /* call flags */
    ulong cc_cdpn_length;       /* called party number length */
    ulong cc_cdpn_offset;       /* called party number offset */
    ulong cc_opt_length;        /* optional parameters length */
    ulong cc_opt_offset;        /* optional parameters offset */
    ulong cc_addr_length;       /* connecting address length */
    ulong cc_addr_offset;       /* connecting address offset */
} CC_setup_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the destination CCS user that a call setup request
has been made by the user at the specified source address.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_SETUP_IND .
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Identifies the call reference that can be used by the CCS user to associate
this message with the
.BR CC_SETUP_RES "(7) or " CC_RELEASE_REQ (7)
primitive that is to follow.  This value must be unique among the outstanding
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
messages.
.TP
.I cc_call_type
Indicates the type of call to be set up.  Call types supported are dependent
upon the CCS provider and protocol, see the addendum for call types for
specific protocols.
.TP
.I cc_call_flags
Indicates a bit field of call options.  Call flags supported are dependent
upon the CCS provider and protocol, see the addendum for call flags for
specific protocols.
.TP
.I cc_cdpn_length
Indicates the length of the called party number address parameter that conveys
an address identifying the CCS user to which the call is to be established.
This field will accommodate variable length addresses within a range supported
by the CCS provider.
.TP
.I cc_cdpn_offset
Is the offset of the called party number address from the beginning of the
M_PROTO message block.
.TP
.I cc_opt_length
Indicates the length of the optional parameters that were used in the call
setup.
.TP
.I cc_opt_offset
Indicates the offset of the optional parameters from the beginning of the
M_PROTO message block.
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the connecting address parameter that conveys the call
control address the CCS user entity (circuit) on which the call is being
established.  The semantics of the values in the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
is identical to
the values in the
.BR CC_BIND_ACK (7).
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the connecting address from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SS Rules
The rules for issuing the
.B CC_SETUP_IND
primitive are as follows:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
This primitive will only be issued to streams that have been bound with a
non-zero negotiated maximum number of setup indications (i.e. on a listening
stream), and where the number of outstanding setup indications (call
references) for the stream is less than the negotiated maximum number of setup
indications.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the call setup indicated is for a normal call, the stream upon which it is
indicated was not bound with the
.BR CC_TEST ", " CC_MANAGEMENT " or " CC_MAINTENANCE
flags set.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the call setup indicated is for an ISUP test call, the stream upon which it
is indicated was bound with the
.B CC_TEST
flag set and a non-zero number of negotiated maximum setup indications.
.\"
.\"
.SS State
This primitive is valid in state
.B CCS_IDLE
for the indicated call reference.
The new state depends upon the information provided in the
.B CC_SETUP_IND
message as follows:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
If the setup indication indicates that a continuity check was performed on a
previous circuit, the new state is
.B CCS_WIND_CCREP
(awaiting the report of continuity test results).
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the setup indication indicates that a continuity check is required on the
circuit, the new state is
.B CCS_WREQ_CTEST
(awaiting confirmation of installation of loop back device on the circuit).
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the setup indication indicates that no continuity tests are required on
this or a previous circuit and that the called party number contains partial
information, the new state is
.B CCS_WREQ_MORE
(awaiting the request for more information to confirm the partial address).
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the setup indication indicates that no continuity tests are required on
this or a previous circuit and that the called party number contains complete
information, the new state is
.B CCS_WRES_SIND
(awaiting response to the setup indication).
.\"
.\"
.PP
In any event, the number of outstanding setup indications waiting for user
response is incremented by one.
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
This primitive is valid in all modes.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
