'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_SETUP_CON.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:24 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:24 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_SETUP_CON 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_SETUP_CON
\- call setup confirmation
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_setup_con {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_SETUP_CON */
    ulong cc_user_ref;          /* user call reference */
    ulong cc_call_ref;          /* call reference */
    ulong cc_addr_length;       /* connecting address length */
    ulong cc_addr_offset;       /* connecting address offset */
} CC_setup_con_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the calling CCS user that the call control setup
request has been sent on the specified call control address (circuit, circuit
group).  For calls that were requested setup with the
.B ISUP_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED
flag set in the
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7),
or for which the CCS provider has otherwise decide to perform continuity
check, this also confirms that the continuity check was successful.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7).
.TP
.I cc_user_ref
Indicates the CCS user call attempt reference value which was provided by the
CCS user in the
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
message.  This permits the CCS user to associate this
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
primitive with the previous
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitive and permits multiple outstanding
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitives.
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Indicates the CCS provider assigned call reference.  If the CCS user wishes to
establish more than one simultaneous call on a given stream, the CCS user must
use this CCS provider indicated call reference in subsequent call control
primitives sent to the CCS provider.  This permits the CCS provider to
associate a CCS user primitive with one of multiple simultaneous calls
associated with a given stream.
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the connecting address parameter that conveys the call
control address of the CCS user entity (circuit) on which the call is being
established.  The semantics of the values in the
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
is identical to the values in the
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7).
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the connecting address from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.\" .SS Rules
.\"
.\"
.SS State
This primitive is valid in state
.B CCS_WCON_SREQ
and state
.BR CCS_WREQ_CCREP .
The new state depends on whether an end-of-pulsing signal was present in the
called party number in the associated
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitive.  If an ST signal was present, the new state is
.BR CCS_WREQ_PROCEED ,
otherwise the new state is
.BR CCS_WREQ_MORE .
In either case, the call enters the Call Establishment Phase.
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
This primitive is issued by the CC Provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
