'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_SETUP_RES.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:57:56 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:56 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_SETUP_RES 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:56 $" "$Name:  $" "Call Control Interface"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_SETUP_RES
\- call setup response
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_setup_res {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_SETUP_RES */
    ulong cc_call_ref;          /* call reference */
    ulong cc_token_value;       /* call response token value */
} CC_setup_res_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive allows the destination CCS user to request that the call
control provider accept a previous setup indication.  This primitive also
indicates that overlap receiving is complete.  The CCS use is still expected
to complete the setup process by issuing the
.BR CC_PROCEEDING_REQ (7),
.BR CC_ALERTING_REQ (7),
.BR CC_PROGRESS_REQ (7),
.BR CC_IBI_REQ (7),
.BR CC_CONNECT_REQ "(7) or "
.BR CC_DISCONNECT_REQ (7)
messages.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_SETUP_RES .
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Indicates the call reference of the
.B CC_SETUP_RES
message.  It is used by the
CCS provider to associated the
.B CC_SETUP_RES
message with an outstanding
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
message.  An invalid call reference should result in error with the error type
.RB [ CCBADCLR ].
.TP
.I cc_token_value
Is used to identify the stream that the CCS user wants to establish the call
on.  (Its value is determined by the CCS user by issuing a
.BR CC_BIND_REQ  (7)
primitive with the
.B CC_TOKEN_REQUEST
flag set.  The token value is returned in the
.BR CC_BIND_ACK (7).)
The value of this field should be non-zero when the CCS user wants to
establish the call on a stream other than the stream on which the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
arrived.  If the CCS user wants to establish a call on the same stream that
the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
arrived on, then the value of this field should be zero.
.\"
.\"
.\" .SS Rules
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.BR CCS_WRES_SIND .
The new state is
.BR CCS_WREQ_PROCEED .
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is issued by the CC Provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
.PP
The CCS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgments upon
receipt of this primitive:
.HP
.IR "Successful" :
Successful completion is indicated via the
.BR CC_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.
.HP
.IR "Unsuccesful (Non-fatal errors)" :
Errors are indicated via the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are defined as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.RB [ CCSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the UNIX system error is indicated in the
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ CCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADCLR ]
The call reference specified in the primitive was incorrect or illegal.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADTOK ]
The token specified is not associated with an open stream.
.TP
.RB [ CCBADPRIM ]
The primitive format was incorrect (i.e. too short).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
.PP
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
