'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CC_UNBLOCKING_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:57:56 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:56 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CC_UNBLOCKING_IND 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:56 $" "$Name:  $" "Call Control Interface"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CC_UNBLOCKING_IND
\- circuit unblocking indication
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of this message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CC_unblocking_ind {
    ulong cc_primitive;         /* always CC_UNBLOCKING_IND */
    ulong cc_flags;             /* unblocking flags */
    ulong cc_addr_length;       /* address length */
    ulong cc_addr_offset;       /* address offset */
} CC_unblocking_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates that the peer CCS user has requested that the
specified call control address(es) (signalling interface and circuit
identifiers) be remotely unblocked.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP 16
.I cc_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR CC_UNBLOCKING_IND .
.TP
.I cc_flags
Specifies the options flags.  See
.IR \*(lqFlags\*(rq ,
below.
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
\Indicates the length of the call control address(es) (signalling interface
and circuit identifiers) that the peer CCS user has requested to be remotely
unblocked.
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Specifies the offset of the call control address(es) from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SS Flags
The options flags are protocol and provider-specific.  For additional
information, see the specific Addendum.
.\"
.\"
.\" .SS Rules
.\"
.\"
.SS State
This primitive will only be issued by the CCS provider if the remote blocking
state of the specified address(es) is
.BR CCS_UNBLOCKED " or " CCS_BLOCKED .
The new remote blocking state will be
.B CCS_WRES_UBIND
for the specified call control addresses.
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
This primitive will only be issued by the CCS provider for signalling
interfaces in the NNI mode.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
This primitive is originated by the CC User.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.sp
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.764 and ANSI T1.113 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to Q.764 or ANS T1.113 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isup (7)
for address format and
.BR isup (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for Q.931/932 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to Q.931/932 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_isdn (7)
for address format and
.BR isdn (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for H.225.0 conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to H.225.0 adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_h225 (7)
for address format and
.BR h225 (4))
.\"
.\"
.SS "Considerations for BSSAP conformance:"
CCS providers conforming to BSSAP adhere to the following
additional rules:
(See also
.BR cci_bssap (7)
for address format and
.BR bssap (4))
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.BR <ss7/cci.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cci (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
The Call Control Interface (CCI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.br
This is Version 0.8.4 of the CCI interface.
.XX
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
