'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: cci_bicc.7.man,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-29 07:10:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: cci_bicc.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-04-29 07:10:30  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/12/27 16:36:00  brian
.\" - added slpmod module and fixups for make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:19  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH CCI-BICC 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B cci_bicc, bicci
\- Call Control Interface \- Corrigendum for Q.765 Conformance
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/cci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/cci_bicc.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bicc_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " bicc_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/bicc\fI ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This Corrigendum describes the formats and rules that are specific to
BICC.
.[
t1.bicc.1-2000 to t1.bicc.7-2000
.]
The Corrigendum must be used along with the generic CCI as defined in
.BR cci (7)
when implementing a CCS provider that will be configured with the
BICC
call processing layer.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Primitives and Rules for Q.1920 Conformance"
.PP
The following are the rules that apply to the CCI primitives for Q.1920
compatibility.
.\"
.\"
.SS CALL CONTROL ADDRESSES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Format
.\"
.\"
.PP
The format of call control addresses is as follows:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Parameters
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Specifies or indicates the length of the call control address.  If a call
control address is not included in the primitive, this parameter must be coded
zero (0).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Specifies or indicates the offset of the address from the begining of the
primitive.  If a call control address is not included with the primitive, this
parameter must be coded zero (0).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Address Format
.\"
.\"
.PP
The format of the call control addresses for Q.1920 conforming CCS providers is
as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
typedef struct bicc_addr {
    ulong scope;  /* the scope of the identifier */
    ulong id;     /* the identifier within the scope */
    ulong cic;    /* circuit id code within the scope */
} bicc_addr_t;
\s+2\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Address Fields
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I scope
Specifies or indicates the scope of the call control address.  See
.RI \(lq Scope ,\(rq
below.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I id
Specifies or indicates the identifier within the
.IR scope .
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cic
Specifies or indicates the Circuit Identification Code significant with the
.IR scope .
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Scope
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.I scope
of the address is one of the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B BICC_SCOPE_CT
Specifies or indicates that the scope of the call control address is a BICC
circuit.  The identifier within the scope is an identifier which uniquely
identifies a circuit to the CCS provider.  Circuit scope addresses may also be
used to specify or indicate circuit groups, trunk groups, signalling relations
and signalling points.  When used in an indication or confirmation primitive,
the CCS provider includes the Circuit Identification Code associated with
the circuit in the address.
.sp
For multi-rate calls where multiple circuits are involved, the circuit scoped
address specifies the lowest numerical Circuit Identification Code in the
group of circuits.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B BICC_SCOPE_CG
Specifies or indicates that the scope of the call control address is a BICC
circuit group.  The identifier within the scope is an identifier which
uniquely identifies a circuit group to the CCS provider.  Circuit group scope
addresses may also be used to specify or indicate signalling relations and
signalling points.  When used in an indication or confirmation primitive, the
CCS provider includes the Circuit Identification Code associated with the
circuit group (lowest numerical value CIC in the circuit group range).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B BICC_SCOPE_TG
Specifies or indicates that the scope of the call control address is a BICC
trunk group.  The identifier within the scope is an identifier which uniquely
identifies a trunk group to the CCS provider.  Trunk group scope addresses may
also be used to specify or indicate circuits, signalling relations and
signalling points.  The Circuit Identification Code must be used to specify a
circuit within the trunk group.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B BICC_SCOPE_SR
Specifies or indicates that the scope of the call control address is a BICC
signalling relation.  The identifier within the scope is an identifier which
uniquely identifies a signalling relation to the CCS provider.  Signalling
relation scope addresses may also be used to specify or indicate circuits and
signalling points.  The Circuit Identification Code must be used to sepcify a
circuit (equipped or unequipped) within the signalling relation.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B BICC_SCOPE_SP
Specifies or indicates that the scope of the call control address is a BICC
signalling point.  The identifier within the scope is an identifier which
uniquely identifies a local signalling point to the CCS provider.  Signalling
point scope addresses may only indicate local signalling points.  The Circuit
Identification Code is unused and should be ignored by the CCS user and will
be coded zero (0) by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B BICC_SCOPE_DF
Specifies or indicates that the scope of the call control address is the
default scope.  The identifier within the scope and Circuit Identification
Code are unused and should be ignored by the CCS user and will be coded zero
(0) by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Rules
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for scope:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
In primitives in which the address parameter occurs, the scope field setting
indicates the scope of the address parameter.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
Only one call control address can be specified with a single scope.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
Not all scopes are necessarily supported by all primitives.  See the
particular primitive in this Corrigendum.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for addresses:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The address contained in the primitive contains the following:
.RS
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
A scope.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu
An identifier within the scope or zero (0).
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu
A circuit identification code within the scope or zero (0).
.RE
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
If the scope of the address is BICC_SCOPE_DF, then both the identifier and
circuit identification code fields should be coded zero (0) and will be
ignored by the CCS user or provider.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the scope of the address is BICC_SCOPE_SP, then the circuit identification
code field should be coded zero (0) and will be ignored by the CCS user or
provider.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
In all other scopes, the circuit identification code is optional and is coded
zero (0) if unused.
.\"
.\"
.SS OPTIONAL PARAMETERS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Format
.\"
.\"
.PP
The format of the optional parameters for Q.1920 conforming CCS providers is as
follows:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Parameters
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_opt_length
Specifies or indicates the length of the optional parameters associated with
the primitive.  For Q.1920 conforming CCS providers, the format of the optional
parameters is the format of the Optional Parameters list (without the pointer
or End of Optional Parameters octets) as specified in Q.1920.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_opt_offset
Specifies the offset of the optional parameters from the beginning of the
block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Rules
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for optional parameters:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The optional parameters provided by the CCS user may be checked for syntax by
the CCS provider.  If the CCS provider discovers a syntax error in the format
of the optional parameters, the CCS provider should respond with a
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with error
.RB [ CCBADOPT ].
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
For some primitives, specific optional parameters might be interpreted by the
CCS provider and alter the function of some primitives.  See the specific
primitive descriptions later in this Corrigendum.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
Except for optional parameters interpreted by the CCS provider as specified
later in this Corrigendum, the optional parameters are treated as opaque and
the optional parameter list is only checked for syntax.  Opaque parameters
will be passed to the BICC message without examination by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
To perform specific functions, additional optional parameters may be added to
BICC messages by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
To perform specific functions, optional parameters may be modified by the CCS
provider before being added to BICC messages.
.\"
.\"
.SH Local Management Primitives
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_INFO_ACK
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_INFO_ACK (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Parameters
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Flags
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Rule"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_BIND_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Parameters
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address to bind.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address to bind from the beginning of the block.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_setup_ind
Indicates the maximum number of setup (or continuity check) indications that
will be outstanding for the listening stream.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_bind_flags
Indicates the options assocated with the bind.
See
.IR \*(lqFlags\*(rq ,
below.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Flags
.\"
.\"
.PP
The bind flags can be as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B CC_DEFAULT_LISTENER
When set, this flag specifies that this stream is the \(lqdefault listener
stream.\(rq  This stream is used to pass setup indications (or continuity check
requests) for all incoming calls that contain protocol identifiers that are
not bound to any other listener, or when a listener stream with cc_setup_ind
value of greater than zero is not found.  Also, the default listener will
receive all incoming call indications that contain no user data (i.e., test
calls) and all maintenance indications (i.e.,
.BR CC_MAINT_IND (7)).
Only one default listener stream is allowed per occurrence of CCI.  An attempt
to bind a default listener stream when one is already bound should result in
an error (of type
.RB [ CCADDRBUSY ]).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B CC_TOKEN_REQUEST
When set, this flag specifies to the CCS provider that the CCS user has
requested that a \(lqtoken\(rq be assigned to the stream (to be used in the call
response message), and the token value be returned to the CCS user via the
.BR CC_BIND_ACK (7)
primitive.  The token assigned by the CCS provider can then be used by the CCS
user in a subsequent
.BR CC_SETUP_RES (7)
primitive to identify the stream on which the call is to be established.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B CC_MANAGEMENT
When set, this flag specifies to the CCS provider that this stream is to be
used for circuit management indications for the specified addresses.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B CC_TEST
When set, this flag specifies to the CCS provider that this stream is to be
used for continuity and test call indications for the specified addresses.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B CC_MAINTENANCE
When set, this flag specifies to the CCS provider that this stream is to be
used for maintenance indications for the specified addresses.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Rules
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for address specification:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The address contained in the primitive as indicated by
.I cc_addr_length
and
.I cc_addr_offset
parameters.  The address can be of any BICC scope.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
If the
.B CC_DEFAULT_LISTENER
flag is set, the parameters
.I cc_addr_length
and
.I cc_addr_offset
should be coded zero, and will be ignored by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for setup indications:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
If the number of setup indications is non-zero, the stream is bound as a
listening stream.  Listening streams will receive all calls, test calls, and
continuity tests that are incoming on the address bound.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu 3
If the address bound is of scope
.BR BICC_SCOPE_CT ,
only incoming calls on the bound circuit will be delivered to the listening
stream.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu 3
If the address bound is of scope
.BR BICC_SCOPE_CG ,
only incoming calls on the bound circuit group will be delivered to
the listening stream.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu 3
If the address bound is of scope
.BR BICC_SCOPE_TG ,
only incoming calls on the bound trunk group will be delivered to
the listening stream (this is the normal case).
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu 3
If the address bound is of scope
.BR BICC_SCOPE_SR ,
only incoming calls on the bound signalling relation (from the
associated remote point code) will be delivered to the listening stream.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu 3
If the address bound is of scope
.BR BICC_SCOPE_SP ,
only incoming calls on the bound local signalling point will be
delivered to the listening stream.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu 3
If the address bound is of scope
.BR BICC_SCOPE_DF ,
all incoming calls will be delivered to the listening stream.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu 3
Streams bound at one scope takes precedence over a stream bound at another
scope in the order: circuit, circuit group, trunk group, signalling relation,
signalling point and default scope.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Once a stream has successfully bound as a listening stream, it should be
prepared to receive incoming calls, test calls and continuity tests.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for bind flags:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
For Q.1920 conformance, the
.B CC_DEFAULT_LISTENER
will receive all incoming calls, test calls, continuity tests, circuit
management indications and maintenance indications that have no other
listening stream.  There can only be one stream bound with the
.B CC_DEFAULT_LISTENER
flag set.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Only one of
.BR CC_DEFAULT_LISTENER ,
.BR CC_MANAGEMENT ,
.B CC_TEST
and
.B CC_MAINTENANCE
may be set.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Streams bound with the
.B CC_MANAGEMENT
flag set will receive only circuit management indications and will not receive
any calls.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Streams bound with the
.B CC_TEST
flag set will receive only continuity test and test call indications and will
not receive normal calls, circuit management or maintenance indications.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Streams bound with the
.B CC_MAINTENANCE
flag set will receive only maintenance indications and will not receive any
circuit management indications or calls.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_BIND_ACK
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_BIND_ACK (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Parameters
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address to bind.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address to bind from the beginning of the block.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_setup_ind
Indicates the maximum number of setup (or continuity check) indications that
will be outstanding for the listening stream.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Flags
.\"
.\"
.PP
See
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
in this Corrigendum.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Rules
.\"
.\"
.PP
See
.BR CC_BIND_REQ (7)
in this Corrigendum.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_OPTMGMT_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Parameters
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Flags
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Rules
.\"
.\"
.SH Call Setup Primitives
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_SETUP_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Parameters
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_call_type
Specifies the type of call to be set up.  See
.IR "\*(lqCall Types\*(rq" ,
below.
.TP
.I cc_user_ref
Specifies the CCS user call reference to be associated with the call setup
request.  The CCS provider will use this user call reference in any
indications given before the
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
primitive is issued.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_call_flags
Specifies the options associated with the call.
See
.IR \*(lqFlags\*(rq ,
below.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_cdpn_length
Specifies the length of the called party number.  For Q.1920 conforming CCS
providers, the format of the called party number is the format of the Called
Party Number parameter (without the parameter type or length octets) as
specified in Q.1920
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_cdpn_offset
Specifies the offset of the called party number from the beginning of the
block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Call Types
.PP
Q.1920 conforming CCS providers must support the following call types:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B CC_CALL_TYPE_SPEECH
The call type is speech.  This call type corresponds to a Q.1920 transmission
medium requirement of \fISpeech\fR.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B CC_CALL_TYPE_64KBS_UNRESTRICTED
The call type is 64 kbit/s unrestricted digital information.  This call type
corresponds to a Q.1920 transmission medium requirement of \fI64 kbit/s
Unrestricted Digital Information\fR.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B CC_CALL_TYPE_3_1kHZ_AUDIO
The call type is 3.1 kHz audio.  This call type corresponds to a Q.1920
transmission medium requirement of \fI3.1 kHz Audio\fR.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B CC_CALL_TYPE_64KBS_PREFERRED
The call type is 64 kbit/s preferred.  This call type corresponds to a Q.1920
transmission medium requirement of \fI64 kbit/s Preferred\fR.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B CC_CALL_TYPE_2x64KBS_UNRESTRICTED
The call type is 2 x 64 kbit/s unrestricted digital information.  This call
type corresponds to a Q.1920 transmission medium requirement of \fI2 x 64
kbit/s Unrestricted Digital Information\fR.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B CC_CALL_TYPE_384KBS_UNRESTRICTED
The call type is 384 kbit/s unrestricted digital information.  This call type
corresponds to a Q.1920 transmission medium requirement of \fI384 kbit/s
Unrestricted Digital Information\fR.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B CC_CALL_TYPE_1536KBS_UNRESTRICTED
The call type is 1536 kbit/s unrestricted digital information.  This call type
corresponds to a Q.1920 transmission medium requirement of \fI1536 kbit/s
Unrestricted Digital Information\fR.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B CC_CALL_TYPE_1920KBS_UNRESTRICTED
The call type is 1920 kbit/s unrestricted digital information.  This call type
corresponds to a Q.1920 transmission medium requirement of \fI1920 kbit/s
Unrestricted Digital Information\fR.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Flags
.PP
Q.1920 conforming CCS providers must support the following flags:
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following flags correspond to bits in the \fINature of Connection
Indicators\fR parameter of Q.1920:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_NCI_ONE_SATELLITE_CCT ", " BICC_NCI_TWO_SATELLITE_CCT
When one of these flags is set it indicates that either one or two satellite
circuits are present in the connection.  Otherwise, it indicates that no
satellite circuits are present in the connection.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED ", " BICC_NCI_CONT_CHECK_PREVIOUS
When one of these flags is set it indicates that either a continuity check is
required on the connection, or that a continuity check was performed on a
previous connection.  Otherwise, it indicates that a continuity check is not
required on the connection.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_NCI_OG_ECHO_CONTROL_DEVICE"
When set it indicates that an outgoing half echo control device is included on
the connection.  Otherwise, it indicates that no outgoing half echo control
device is included on the connection.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following flags correspond to bits in the \fIForward Call Indicators\fR
parameter of Q.1920:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_FCI_INTERNATIONAL_CALL"
When this flag is set, the call is to be treated as an international call.
Otherwise, the call is to be treated as a national call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_FCI_PASS_ALONG_E2E_METHOD_AVAILABLE ", " BICC_FCI_SCCP_E2E_METHOD_AVAILABLE
When one of these flags is set, either the pass along end-to-end method is
available or the SCCP end-to-end method is available.  Otherwise, no
end-to-end method is available and only link-by-link method is available.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_FCI_INTERWORKING_ENCOUNTERED"
When this flag is set, interworking has been encountered on the call.
Otherwise, no interworking has been encountered on the call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_FCI_E2E_INFORMATION_AVAILABLE"
When this flag is set, end-to-end information is now available.  Otherwise, no
end-to-end information is available.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_FCI_ISDN_USER_PART_ALL_THE_WAY"
When this flag is set, ISDN User Part has been used all the way on the call.
Otherwise, ISDN User Part has not been used all the way.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_FCI_ORIGINATING_ACCESS_ISDN"
When this flag is set, the originating access is ISDN.  Otherwise, the
originating access is non-ISDN.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_FCI_SCCP_CLNS_METHOD_AVAILABLE ", " BICC_FCI_SCCP_CONS_METHOD_AVAILABLE ", " BICC_FCI_SCCP_ALL_METHODS_AVAILABLE
When one of these flags is set, either the connectionless SCCP method is
available, the connection oriented SCCP method is available, or both methods
are available.  Otherwise, no SCCP method is indicated as available.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for call reference:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
If the BICC user wishes to setup multiple outgoing calls on the same stream,
the BICC user associates a user call reference with each of the setup requests
so that the indication, confirmation and acknowledgment primitives can be
associated with the specific call setup request.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
User call references are only necessary if multiple outgoing calls are to
setup at the same time.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
User call references only need by valid until a setup confirmation, call
reattempt indication, release indication or call failure indication has been
received in response to the setup request.  A setup confirmation will contain
a CCS provider call reference which can be used to distinguish the call from
other calls to the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for call type:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
All Q.1920 conforming CCS provider must support the following call types:
.sp
.BR CC_CALL_TYPE_SPEECH ,
.br
.BR CC_CALL_TYPE_64KBS_UNRESTRICTED ,
.br
.BR CC_CALL_TYPE_3_1kHZ_AUDIO " and "
.br
.BR CC_CALL_TYPE_64KBS_PREFERRED .
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Support for other call types is optional and implementation-specific.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for flags:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Q.1920 conforming CCS providers must support all of the flags listed above.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Only one of the following flags may be set:
.sp
.BR BICC_NCI_ONE_SATELLITE " and "
.br
.BR BICC_NCI_TWO_SATELLITE .
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Only one of the following flags may be set:
.sp
.BR BICC_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED " and "
.br
.BR BICC_NCI_CONT_CHECK_PREVIOUS .
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Only one of the following flags may be set:
.sp
.BR BICC_FCI_PASS_ALONG_E2E_METHOD_AVAILABLE " and "
.br
.BR BICC_FCI_SCCP_E2E_METHOD_AVAILABLE .
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Only one of the following flags may be set, and only if
.B BICC_FCI_SCCP_E2E_METHOD_AVAILABLE
is also set:
.sp
.BR BICC_FCI_SCCP_CLNS_METHOD_AVAILABLE ,
.br
.BR BICC_FCI_SCCP_CONS_METHOD_AVAILABLE " and "
.br
.BR BICC_FCI_SCCP_ALL_METHODS_AVAILABLE .
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_SETUP_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Indicates the CCS provider-assigned call reference associated with the call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_call_type
Indicates the type of call to be set up.  For Q.1920 conforming CCS providers,
the call type can be one of the call types listed in this Corrigendum under
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_call_flags
Indicates the options associated with the call.  Q.1920 conforming CCS
providers indicate the flags listed in this Corrigendum under
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the call control address (circuit(s)) upon which the
call setup is indicated.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the call control address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_cdpn_length
Indicates the length of the called party number.  For Q.1920 conforming CCS
providers, the format of the called party number is the format of the Called
Party Number parameter (without the parameter type or length octets) as
specified in Q.1920
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_cdpn_offset
Indicates the offset of the called party number from the beginning of the
block.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_opt_length
Indicates the length of the optional parameters associated with the IAM,
excluding the end of optional parameters tag.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_opt_offset
Indicates the offset of the options from the beginning of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for call reference:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The BICC provider will indicate a unique call reference to the CCS user which
is used to associate response and request primitives with the call setup
indication.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Provider call references will always be indicated.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Provider call references are only valid until a call failure or release
indication has been issued by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Provider call references are only valid for streams upon which the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
is issued, or for streams upon which the call was accepted by the CCS user
with a
.BR CC_SETUP_RES (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Provider call references are unique across the provider.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for call type:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The rules for call type in section
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
in this Corrigendum also apply to the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7).
All Q.1920 conforming CCS providers must support the following call types:
.sp
.BR CC_CALL_TYPE_SPEECH ,
.br
.BR CC_CALL_TYPE_64KBS_UNRESTRICTED ,
.br
.BR CC_CALL_TYPE_3_1kHZ_AUDIO " and "
.br
.BR CC_CALL_TYPE_64KBS_PREFERRED .
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Support for additional call types is optional and implementation-specific.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for setup flags:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The rules for setup flags in section
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
in this Corrigendum also apply to the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for addresses:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Call control addresses in the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
are of scope
.B BICC_SCOPE_CT
and identify the circuit(s) upon which the call setup is indicated.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
For multi-rate calls, the call control address indicates the base circuit
(numerically lowest Circuit Identification Code) of the multi-rate call.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_SETUP_RES
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_SETUP_RES (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Specifies the call reference of the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
to which the CCS user is responding.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_token_value
Specifies the token of a stream upon which to accept the call setup.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for call reference:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The call reference specified by the CCS User must be a call reference which
was previously indicated by the CCS provider in an outstanding
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7).
Otherwise the CCS provider will respond with a
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with error
.RB [ CCBADCLR ].
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for token value:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
If the token is the token value of the stream upon which the corresponding
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
was received, or zero (0), then the call setup will be accepted on the stream
upon which the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
was received.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
If the token is non-zero and different from the listening stream, the call
setup will be accepted on the specified stream.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_SETUP_CON
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_user_ref
Indicates the CCS user call reference that was specified in the
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7).
This call reference is used by the CCS user to associated the
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
with an outstanding
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Indicates the CCS provider call reference that is to be associated with the
call.  This call reference is used by the CCS provider to identify the call
and is to be used by the CCS user in all subsequent primitives referencing the
call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the identifier of the circuit upon which the call
setup is confirmed.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the identifier from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for call reference:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The CCS user call reference will be the same as the call reference provided by
the user in the
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The CCS provider call reference will follow the rules of the
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
in this Corrigendum.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for addresses:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The call control address indicated in the
.BR CC_SETUP_CON (7)
is a
.B BICC_SCOPE_CT
(circuit scoped) call control address which identifies the circuit(s) upon
which the outgoing call will be connected.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
For multi-rate calls, the call control address specifies the base circuit
(lowest numerical Circuit Identification Code) for the multi-rate call.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_CALL_REATTEMPT_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_CALL_REATTEMPT_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_user_ref
Indicates the CCS user call reference for the call.  This reference identifies
the corresponding
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitives to the CCS user for which the call reattempt need be performed.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_reason
Indicates the reason for the reattempt.
See
.IR \*(lqReasons\*(rq ,
below.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Reasons
.\"
.\"
.PP
The reason,
indicated by
.IR cc_reason ,
can be one of the following values:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_REATTEMPT_DUAL_SEIZURE"
Indicates that the circuit was seized by a controlling exchange during the
initial setup of the call (i.e, before any backward message was received).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_REATTEMPT_RESET"
Indicates that the circuit was reset during the initial setup of the call
(i.e, before any backward message was received).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_REATTEMPT_BLOCKING"
Indicates that the circuit was blocked during the initial setup of the call
(i.e, before any backward message was received).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_REATTEMPT_T24_TIMEOUT"
Indicates that COT failure occurred on the circuit (due to T24 timeout).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_REATTEMPT_UNEXPECTED"
Indicates that an unexpected message was received for the call during the
initial setup of the call (i.e, before any backward message was received).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_REATTEMPT_COT_FAILURE"
Indicates that COT failed on the circuit (due to transmission of COT message
indicating failure).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_REATTEMPT_CIRCUIT_BUSY"
Indicates that the specified circuit was busy.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for call reference:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The CCS user call reference is a call reference associated with an outstanding
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitive to which the CCS provider is responding.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for reason:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The Q.1920 conforming CCS provider will provide one of the reasons listed above.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The
.B BICC_REATTEMPT_DUAL_SEIZURE
reason will only be indicated if the CCS user represents a non-controlling
exchange for the associated trunk group.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The
.B BICC_REATTEMPT_T24_TIMEOUT
reason will only be indicated if the outgoing call includes a continuity test
and a positive
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ (7)
was not issued to the CCS provider by a test stream within T24.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The
.B BICC_REATTEMPT_COT_FAILURE
reason will only be indicated if the outgoing call includes a continuity test
and a negative
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ (7)
was issued to the CCS provider by a test stream within T24.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The
.B BICC_REATTEMPT_CIRCUIT_BUSY
reason will only be indicated if the stream issuing the
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
primitive is bound to a circuit
.RB ( BICC_SCOPE_CT )
and the circuit is busy with another call.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_SETUP_COMPLETE_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_SETUP_COMPLETE_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
For compatibility between CCS providers conforming to Q.931 and CCS providers
conforming to Q.1920, if a CCS provider conforming to Q.1920 receives a
.BR CC_SETUP_COMPLETE_REQ (7)
for a call reference in the
.B CCS_ANSWERED
state
.RB ( CCS_ICC_ANSWERED ),
the CCS provider will ignore the primitive.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_SETUP_COMPLETE_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_SETUP_COMPLETE_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
For compatibility between CCS providers conforming to Q.931 and CCS providers
conforming to Q.1920, if a CCS provider conforming to Q.1920 issues a
.BR CC_SETUP_COMPLETE_IND (7)
for a call reference in the
.B CCS_ANSWERED
state, the CCS user may ignore the primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SH "Continuity Check Phase"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_CONT_CHECK_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_CONT_CHECK_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Specifies the length of the circuit test address (circuit) upon which the
continuity check is to be performed.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Specifies the offset of the circuit test address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for addresses:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The parameter
.I cc_addr_length
cannot be zero: i.e, an address must be provided or the CCS provider should
respond with
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
with an error of
.RB [ CCNOADDR ].
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The address provided must be of scope
.B BICC_SCOPE_CT
and must provide the identifier of the circuit upon which the CCS user is
requesting a continuity check.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The specified circuit identifier must be equipped else the CCS provider should
response with
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
and an error of
.RB [ CCBADADDR ].
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_CONT_CHECK_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_CONT_CHECK_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Indicates the CCS provider call reference.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the identifier of the circuit upon which the
continuity check is to be performed.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for call reference:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for addresses:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The parameter
.I cc_addr_length
cannot be zero: i.e, an address must be provided or the CCS provider should
respond with
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
with an error of
.RB [ CCNOADDR ].
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The address provided must be of scope
.B BICC_SCOPE_CT
and must provide the identifier of the circuit upon which the CCS user is
requesting a continuity check.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The specified circuit test address (circuit identifier) must be equipped else
the CCS provider should response with
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
and an error of
.RB [ CCBADADDR ].
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_CONT_TEST_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
This primitive is only supported when the Loop Back Acknowledgment is used as
a national option under Q.1920  For compatibility with CCS providers not
supporting the national option, if such a CCS provider receives a
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_REQ (7)
while waiting for a
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_IND (7),
the CCS provider
should silently discard the primitive.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Specifies the CCS provider call reference.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the call control address
.RB ( BICC_SCOPE_CT
circuit identifier) upon which the continuity check is to be performed.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the call control address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for addresses:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The parameter
.I cc_addr_length
cannot be zero: i.e, an address must be provided or the CCS provider should
respond with
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
with an error of
.RB [ CCNOADDR ].
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The address provided must be the identifier of the circuit upon which the CCS
user is requesting a continuity check.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The specified circuit identifier must be equipped else the CCS provider should
response with
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
and an error of
.RB [ CCBADADDR ].
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_CONT_TEST_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
This primitive is only supported when the Loop Back Acknowledgment is used as
a national option under Q.1920  For compatibility with CCS providers not
supporting the national option, such a CCS provider will issue a
.BR CC_CONT_TEST_IND (7)
in response to a
.BR CC_CONT_CHECK_REQ (7)
following the
.BR CC_OK_ACK (7).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Specifies the CCS provider call reference.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Specifies the length of the identifier of the circuit upon which the
continuity check is to be performed.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Specifies the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for call reference:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The CCS provider assigned call reference is used to associate an outstanding
continuity test indication
.RB ( CC_CONT_CHECK_IND (7)
or call setup indication
.BR CC_SETUP_IND (7)
including a continuity test
.RB ( BICC_NCI_CONT_CHECK_REQUIRED ).
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for addresses:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The parameter
.I cc_addr_length
cannot be zero: i.e, an address must be provided or the CCS provider should
respond with
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
with an error of
.RB [ CCNOADDR ].
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The address provided must be the identifier of the circuit upon which the CCS
user is requesting a continuity check.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The specified circuit identifier must be equipped else the CCS provider should
response with
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
and an error of
.RB [ CCBADADDR ].
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_user_ref
Specifies the CCS User assigned call reference.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Specifies the CCS Provider assigned call reference.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_result
Specifies the result of the continuity test, whether success or failure.  For
Q.1920 conforming CCS provider, the result parameter can be one of the
following values:
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_COT_SUCCESS"
Indicates that the continuity check test was successful.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_COT_FAILURE"
Indicates that the continuity check test failed.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Specifies the length of the identifier of the circuit upon which the
continuity check is to be performed.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Specifies the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for addresses:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The parameter
.I cc_addr_length
cannot be zero: i.e, an address must be provided or the CCS provider should
respond with
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
with an error of
.RB [ CCNOADDR ].
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The address provided must be the identifier of the circuit upon which the CCS
user is requesting a continuity check.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The specified circuit identifier must be equipped else the CCS provider should
response with
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
and an error of
.RB [ CCBADADDR ].
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_CONT_REPORT_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_CONT_REPORT_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Indicates the CCS provider assigned call reference.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_result
Indicates the result of the continuity test, whether success or failure.  For
Q.1920 conforming CCS provider, the result parameter can be one of the
following values:
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_COT_SUCCESS"
Indicates that the continuity check test was successful.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_COT_FAILURE"
Indicates that the continuity check test failed.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for call reference:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
.\"
.\"
.SH "Call Establishment Primitives"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_MORE_INFO_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_MORE_INFO_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
This primitive is not directly supported by Q.1920 conforming CCS providers.
For compatibility with Q.931 conforming CCS providers, if the Q.1920 conforming
CCS provider receives a
.BR CC_MORE_INFO_REQ (7)
in state
.BR CCS_WRES_SIND ,
it should invoke any interworking procedures and silently discard the
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_MORE_INFO_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_MORE_INFO_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
This primitive may optionally be issued by a Q.1920 conforming CCS provider in
the \fIoverlap\fR signalling mode, if the appropriate timer has expired and
the CCS provider has not received an indication that the provided address
is complete.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_INFORMATION_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_INFORMATION_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Specifies the CCS provider assigned call reference for the call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_subn_length
Specifies the length of the subsequent number.  For Q.1920 conforming CCS
providers, the format of the called party address is the format of the
Subsequent Number parameter (without the parameter type or length octets) as
specified in Q.1920
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_subn_offset
Specifies the offset of the subsequent number from the beginning of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
This primitive will only be issued before any
.BR CC_PROCEEDING_IND (7),
.BR CC_ALERTING_IND (7),
.BR CC_PROGRESS_IND (7)
or
.BR CC_IBI_IND (7)
has occurred on the stream
while in the
.B CCS_WCON_SREQ
state.  If not, the CCS provider should respond with a
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with error
.RB [ CCOUTSTATE ].
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
This primitive must not be issued if the preceding
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
contained a called party address which was complete (i.e, contains a ST code
following the digits).  If it is, the CCS provider should respond with a
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
with error
.RB [ CCBADADDR ].
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
This primitive must not be issued  if the trunk group or circuit to which the
stream is bound is configured for \fIen bloc\fR operation.  If it is, the
CCS provider should respond with a
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
with error
.RB [ CCNOTSUPP ].
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_INFORMATION_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_INFORMATION_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_call_ref
Indicates the CCS provider assigned call reference.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_subn_length
Indicates the length of the subsequent number.  For Q.1920 conforming CCS
providers, the format of the subsequent number is the format of the Subsequent
Number parameter (without the parameter type or length octets) as specified in
Q.1920
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_subn_offset
Indicates the offset of the subsequent number from the beginning of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
This primitive will only be issued by the CCS provider before any
.BR CC_PROCEEDING_REQ (7),
.BR CC_ALERTING_REQ (7),
.BR CC_PROGRESS_REQ "(7) or "
.BR CC_IBI_REQ (7)
has been received in state
.BR CCS_WCON_SREQ .
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
This primitive will not be issued by the CCS provider if the preceding
.BR CC_SETUP_REQ (7)
contained a complete called party address (i.e, contains an ST code following
the digits), or if the trunk group or circuit is configured for \fIen
bloc\fR operation.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_INFO_TIMEOUT_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_INFO_TIMEOUT_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
If the Q.1920 conforming CCS provider encounters interworking on a call and is
not expecting an address complete message, and timer T11 expires, the CCS
provider will issue this primitive to the CCS user.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Upon receipt of this primitive, it is the CCS user's responsibility to
determine whether the address digits are sufficient and to issue a
.BR CC_SETUP_RES "(7) or " CC_REJECT_REQ (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.PP
For compatibility between CCS providers conforming to Q.931 and CCS providers
conforming to Q.1920, if the CCS user receives a
.BR CC_INFO_TIMEOUT_IND (7)
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_PROCEEDING_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_PROCEEDING_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Specifies the options associated with the call.  Indicates the flags
associated with the primitive.  See
.IR \*(lqFlags\*(rq ,
below.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Flags
.\"
.\"
.PP
For Q.1920 conforming CCS providers, call flags can be an of the following:
Q.1920 conforming CCS provider must support the following flags:
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following flags correspond to bits in the Backward Call Indicators
parameter of Q.1920:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_BCI_NO_CHARGE ", " BICC_BCI_CHARGE
When one of these flags is set, it indicates that the call is not to be
charged, or the call is to be charged.  Otherwise, it indicates that there is
no indication with regard to charging.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_BCI_SUBSCRIBER_FREE ", " BICC_BCI_CONNECT_FREE
When one of these flags is set, it indicates that the terminating subscriber
is free, or that the connection is free.  Otherwise, no indication is given.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_BCI_ORDINARY_SUBSCRIBER ", " BICC_BCI_PAYPHONE
When one of these flags is set, it indicates that the call has terminated to
an ordinary subscriber, or that the call has terminated to a pay phone.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_BCI_PASS_ALONG_E2E_METHOD_AVAILABLE ", " BICC_BCI_SCCP_E2E_METHOD_AVAILABLE
When one of these flags is set, either the pass along end-to-end method is
available, or the SCCP end-to-end method is available.  Otherwise, no
end-to-end method is available and only link-by-link method is available.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_BCI_INTERWORKING_ENCOUNTERED"
When this flag is set, interworking has been encountered on the call.
Otherwise, to interworking has been encountered on the call.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_BCI_E2E_INFORMATION_AVAILABLE"
When this flag is set, end-to-end information is now available.  Otherwise, no
end-to-end information is available.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_BCI_ISDN_USER_PART_ALL_THE_WAY"
When this flag is set, ISDN User Part has been used all the way on the call,
Otherwise, ISDN User Part has not be used all the way.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_BCI_HOLDING_REQUESTED"
When this flag is set, holding is requested.  Otherwise, holding is not
requested.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_BCI_TERMINATING_ACCESS_ISDN"
When this flag is set, the terminating access is ISDN.  Otherwise, the
terminating access is non-ISDN.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_BCI_IC_ECHO_CONTROL_DEVICE"
When set, this flag indicates that an incoming half echo control device is
included on the connection.  Otherwise, it indicates that no incoming half
echo control device is included in the connection.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_BCI_SCCP_CLNS_METHOD_AVAILABLE ", " BICC_BCI_SCCP_CONS_METHOD_AVAILABLE ", " BICC_BCI_SCCP_ALL_METHODS_AVAILABLE
When one of these flags is set, either the connectionless SCCP method is
available, the connection oriented SCCP method is available, or both methods
are available.  Otherwise, no SCCP method is indicated as available.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
This primitive can only be issued by the CCS user before any
.BR CC_ALERTING_REQ (7),
.BR CC_PROGRESS_REQ "(7) or "
.BR CC_IBI_REQ (7)
has been issued while in state
.BR CCS_WRES_SIND .
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_PROCEEDING_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_PROCEEDING_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
This primitive will only be issued by the CCS provider before any
.BR CC_ALERTING_IND (7),
.BR CC_PROGRESS_IND "(7) or "
.BR CC_IBI_IND (7)
has been issued while in state
.BR CCS_WCON_SREQ .
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_ALERTING_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_ALERTING_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
This primitive can only be issued by the CCS user before any
.BR CC_PROGRESS_REQ "(7) or " CC_IBI_REQ (7)
has been issued while in state
.BR CCS_WRES_SIND .
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_ALERTING_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_ALERTING_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
This primitive will only be issued by the CCS provider before any
.BR CC_PROGRESS_IND "(7) or " CC_IBI_IND (7)
has been issued while in state
.BR CCS_WCON_SREQ .
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_PROGRESS_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_PROGRESS_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_event
Indicates the progress event.
See
.IR \*(lqEvents\*(rq ,
below.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
See
.IR \*(lqFlags\*(rq ,
below.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Events
.\"
.\"
.PP
For Q.1920 conforming CCS providers, this can be one of the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_EVNT_ALERTING"
Indicates that the called party is being alerted.  This event is indicated
only if a
.BR CC_PROCEEDING_IND (7)
primitive has already been received.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_EVNT_PROGRESS"
Indicates that the call is progressing with the specified optional parameters.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_EVNT_IBI"
This event is indicated only by the
.BR CC_IBI_IND (7)
primitive and will not appear here.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_EVNT_CALL_FORWARDED_ON_BUSY"
This event indicates that the call has been forwarded on busy and the optional
parameters (if any) contain the attributes of the forwarding (e.g.,
redirecting number, etc.).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_EVNT_CALL_FORWARDED_ON_NO_ANSWER"
This event indicates that the call has been forwarded on no answer and the
optional parameters (if any) contain the attributes of the forwarding (e.g.,
redirecting number, etc.).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_EVNT_CALL_FORWARDED_UNCONDITIONAL"
This event indicates that the call has been forwarded unconditionally and the
optional parameters (if any) contain the attributes of the forwarding (e.g.,
redirecting number, etc.).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Flags
.\"
.\"
.PP
Options flags can be one of the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_EVNT_PRESENTATION_RESTRICTED"
When set, this flag indicates that the event indication is not to be presented
to the caller.  Otherwise, the event may be presented to the caller.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
This primitive can only be issued by the CCS user before any
.BR CC_IBI_REQ (7)
has been issued while in state
.BR CCS_WRES_SIND .
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for progress event:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Q.1920 conforming CCS providers must support the complete list of progress
events listed above.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
When this primitive is issued with the event BICC_EVNT_ALERTING, it must
follow the rules for the primitive
.BR CC_ALERTING_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
When this primitive is issued with the event BICC_EVNT_IBI, it must follow the
rules for the primitive
.BR CC_IBI_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for progress flags:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The flag
.B BICC_EVNT_PRESENTATION_RESTRICTED
cannot be set when the event is
.BR BICC_EVNT_ALERTING ", " BICC_EVNT_PROGRESS " or " BICC_EVNT_IBI .
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_PROGRESS_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_PROGRESS_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_event
Indicates the progress event.  The event can be any of the events listed in
this Corrigendum under
.BR CC_PROGRESS_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_EVNT_PRESENTATION_RESTRICTED"
When set, this flag indicates that the event indication is not to be presented
to the caller.  Otherwise, the event may be presented to the caller.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
This primitive will only be issued by the CCS provider before any
.BR CC_IBI_IND (7)
has been issued while in state
.BR CCS_WCON_SREQ .
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for progress event:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Q.1920 conforming CCS providers must support the complete list of progress
events listed above.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
This primitive will not be issued by the CCS provider with event
.B BICC_EVNT_ALERTING
or event
.BR BICC_EVNT_IBI :
instead, a
.BR CC_ALERTING_IND (7)
or
.BR CC_IBI_IND (7)
event will be issued.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for progress flags:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The flag
.B BICC_EVNT_PRESENTATION_RESTRICTED
cannot be set when the event is
.BR BICC_EVNT_PROGRESS .
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_IBI_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_IBI_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_IBI_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_IBI_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.SH "Call Established Primitives"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_SUSPEND_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_SUSPEND_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Specifies options associated with the suspend.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "CC_SUSRES_NETWORK_INITIATED"
When this flag is set, it indicates that the suspend was network originated.
When this flag is not set, it indicates that the suspend was ISDN subscriber
initiated.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
For Q.1920 conforming CCS providers, suspend can be requested by independently
either via local provider or the remote provider.  A call can be:
.RS
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu 3
Not Suspended
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu 3
Locally Suspended
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu 3
Remotely Suspended
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu 3
Locally and Remotely Suspended
.RE
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Requests to locally suspend a call which is already locally suspended should
be ignored by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_SUSPEND_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_SUSPEND_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Specifies options associated with the suspend.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "CC_SUSRES_NETWORK_INITIATED"
When this flag is set, it indicates that the suspend was network originated.
When this flag is not set, it indicates that the suspend was ISDN subscriber
initiated.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
For Q.1920 conforming CCS providers, suspend can be requested by independently
either via local provider or the remote provider.  A call can be:
.RS
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu 3
Not Suspended
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu 3
Locally Suspended
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu 3
Remotely Suspended
.\"
.\"
.IP \(bu 3
Locally and Remotely Suspended
.RE
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Indications of remote suspension of a call which is already remotely suspended
will not be issued by the CCS provider.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_SUSPEND_RES
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_SUSPEND_RES (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.PP
For compatibility between CCS providers conforming to Q.931 and CCS providers
conforming to Q.1920, if the CCS provider receives a
.BR CC_SUSPEND_RES (7)
in the
.BR CCS_WRES_SUSIND " or " CCS_SUSPENDED
states, the CCS provider should ignore the
.BR CC_SUSPEND_RES (7)
primitive and move directly to the
.B CCS_SUSPENDED
state if it has not already done so.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_SUSPEND_REJECT_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_SUSPEND_REJECT_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.PP
For compatibility between CCS providers conforming to Q.931 and CCS providers
conforming to Q.1920, if the CCS provider receives a
.BR CC_SUSPEND_REJECT_REQ (7)
in the
.BR CCS_WRES_SUSIND " or " CCS_SUSPENDED
states, the CCS provider should reply with a
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with error
.RB [ CCNOTSUPP ].
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_RESUME_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_RESUME_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Specifies options associated with the resume.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "CC_SUSRES_NETWORK_INITIATED"
When this flag is set, it indicates that the resume was network originated.
When this flag is not set, it indicates that the resume was ISDN subscriber
initiated.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_RESUME_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_RESUME_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Specifies options associated with the resume.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "CC_SUSRES_NETWORK_INITIATED"
When this flag is set, it indicates that the resume was network originated.
When this flag is not set, it indicates that the resume was ISDN subscriber
initiated.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_RESUME_RES
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_RESUME_RES (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.PP
For compatibility between CCS providers conforming to Q.931 and CCS providers
conforming to Q.1920, if the CCS provider receives a
.BR CC_RESUME_RES (7)
in the
.BR CCS_WRES_SUSIND " or " CCS_ANSWERED
states, the CCS provider should ignore the
.BR CC_RESUME_RES
primitive and move directly to the
.B CCS_RESUMEED
state if it has not already done so.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_RESUME_REJECT_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_RESUME_REJECT_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.PP
For compatibility between CCS providers conforming to Q.931 and CCS providers
conforming to Q.1920, if the CCS provider receives a
.BR CC_RESUME_REJECT_REQ (7)
in the
.BR CCS_WRES_SUSIND " or " CCS_ANSWERED
states, the CCS provider should reply with a
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with error
.RB [ CCNOTSUPP ].
.\"
.\"
.SH "Call Termination Primitives"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_REJECT_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_REJECT_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Rules for issuing primitive:
.\"
.\"
.PP
For compatibility between CCS providers conforming to Q.931 and CCS providers
conforming to Q.1920, if the CCS provider receives a
.BR CC_REJECT_REQ (7)
in the
.BR CCS_WRES_SIND ( CCS_ICC_WAIT_COT " or " CCS_ICC_WAIT_ACM )
states, the provider should perform an automatic release procedure and move to
the
.B CCS_WAIT_RLC
state.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_CALL_FAILURE_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_CALL_FAILURE_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_cause
Indicates the cause of the failure.
See
.IR \*(lqCauses\*(rq ,
below.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Causes
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.I cc_cause
can have one of the following values:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_CALL_FAILURE_COT_FAILURE"
Indicates that the continuity check on the circuit failed.  This applies to
incoming calls only.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_CALL_FAILURE_RESET ", " BICC_CALL_FAILURE_RECV_RLC
Indicates that the circuit was not completely released by the distant end.
This applies to incoming calls only.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_CALL_FAILURE_BLOCKING"
Indicates that the circuit was blocked during call setup.  This applies to
incoming calls only.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_CALL_FAILURE_T2_TIMEOUT ", " BICC_CALL_FAILURE_T3_TIMEOUT ", " BICC_CALL_FAILURE_T6_TIMEOUT
Indicates that the call was suspended beyond the allowable period.  This
applies to all established calls.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_CALL_FAILURE_T7_TIMEOUT"
Indicates that there was no response to the call setup request.  This applies
to outgoing calls only.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_CALL_FAILURE_T8_TIMEOUT"
Indicates that the call failed waiting for a continuity check report from the
distant end.  This applies to incoming calls only.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_CALL_FAILURE_T9_TIMEOUT"
Indicates that the call failed while waiting for the distant end to answer.
This applies to outgoing calls only.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_CALL_FAILURE_T35_TIMEOUT"
Indicates that additional information (digits) were not received from the
caller within a sufficient period.  This applies to incoming calls only.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_CALL_FAILURE_T38_TIMEOUT"
Indicates that the call was suspended beyond the allowable period.  This
applies to all established calls.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_CALL_FAILURE_CIRCUIT_BUSY"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_DISCONNECT_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_DISCONNECT_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
For compatibility between CCS providers conforming to Q.931 and CCS providers
conforming to Q.1920, if the CCS provider receives a
.BR CC_DISCONNECT_REQ (7),
the provider should respond with
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
with the error
.RB [ CCNOTSUPP ].
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_RELEASE_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_RELEASE_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_cause
Indicates the cause of the release.
See
.IR \*(lqCauses\*(rq ,
below.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Causes
.\"
.\"
.PP
Cause can be one of the following values:
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_UNALLOCATED_NUMBER
Unallocated (unassigned) number
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_NO_ROUTE_TO_TRANSIT_NETWORK
No route to specified transit network.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_NO_ROUTE_TO_DESTINATION
No route to destination.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_SEND_SPECIAL_INFO_TONE
Send special information tone.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_MISDIALLED_TRUNK_PREFIX
Misdialled trunk prefix.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_PREEMPTION
Preemption.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_PREEMPTION_CCT_RESERVED
Preemption \(em circuit reserved for reuse.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_NORMAL_CALL_CLEARING
Normal call clearing.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_USER_BUSY
User busy.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_NO_USER_RESPONDING
No user responding.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_NO_ANSWER
No answer from user (user alerted).
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_SUBSCRIBER_ABSENT
Subscribed absent.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_CALL_REJECTED
Call rejected.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_NUMBER_CHANGED
Number changed.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_REDIRECT
Redirect to new destination.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_OUT_OF_ORDER
Destination out of order.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_ADDRESS_INCOMPLETE
Invalid number format (address incomplete).
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_FACILITY_REJECTED
Facility rejected.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_NORMAL_UNSPECIFIED
Normal unspecified.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_NO_CCT_AVAILABLE
No circuit/channel available.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_NETWORK_OUT_OF_ORDER
Network out of order.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_TEMPORARY_FAILURE
Temporary failure.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_SWITCHING_EQUIP_CONGESTION
Switching equipment congestion.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_ACCESS_INFO_DISCARDED
Access information discarded.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_REQUESTED_CCT_UNAVAILABLE
Requested circuit/channel not available.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_PRECEDENCE_CALL_BLOCKED
Precedence call blocked.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_RESOURCE_UNAVAILABLE
Resource unavailable, unspecified.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_NOT_SUBSCRIBED
Requested facility not subscribed.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_OGC_BARRED_WITHIN_CUG
Outgoing calls barred within closed user group.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_ICC_BARRED WITHIN_CUG
Incoming calls barred within closed user group.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_BC_NOT_AUTHORIZED
Bearer capability not authorized.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_BC_NOT_AVAILABLE
Bearer capability not presently available.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_INCONSISTENCY
Inconsistency in designated outgoing caccess information and subscriber class.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_SERVICE_OPTION_NOT_AVAILABLE
Service or option not available, unspecified.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_BC_NOT_IMPLEMENTED
Bearer capability not implemented.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_FACILITY_NOT_IMPLEMENTED
Requested facility not implemented.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_RESTRICTED_BC_ONLY
Only restricted digital information bearer capability is available.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_SERIVCE_OPTION_NOT_IMPLEMENTED
Service or option not implemented, unspecified.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_USER_NOT_MEMBER_OF_CUG
User not member of closed user group.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_INCOMPATIBLE_DESTINATION
Incompatible destination.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_NON_EXISTENT_CUG
Non-existent closed user group.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_INVALID_TRANSIT_NTWK_SELECTION
Invalid transit network selection.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_INVALID_MESSAGE
Invalid message, unspecified.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_MESSAGE_TYPE_NOT_IMPLEMENTED
Message type non-existent or not implemented.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_PARAMETER_NOT_IMPLEMENTED
Information element/parameter non-existent or not implemented.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_RECOVERY_ON_TIMER_EXPIRY
Recovery on timer expiry.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_PARAMETER_PASSED_ON
Parameter non-existent or not implemented \(em passed on.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_MESSAGE_DISCARDED
Message with unrecognized parameter discarded.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_PROTOCOL_ERROR
Protocol error, unspecified.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_INTERWORKING
Interworking, unspecified.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_UNALLOCATED_DEST_NUMBER
Unallocated destination number.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_UNKNOWN_BUSINESS_GROUP
Unknown business group.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_EXCHANGE_ROUTING_ERROR
Exchange routing error.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_MISROUTED_CALL_TO_PORTED_NUMBER
Misrouted call to a ported number.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_LNP_QOR_NUMBER_NOT_FOUND
Numnber portability query on release (QoR) number not found.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_PREEMPTION
Preemption.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_PRECEDENCE_CALL_BLOCKED
Precedence call blocked.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_CALL_TYPE_INCOMPATIBLE
Call type incompatible with service request.
.TP
.B CC_CAUS_GROUP_RESTRICTIONS
Call blocked due to group restrictions.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_RELEASE_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_RELEASE_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_cause
Indicates the cause of the release.  Cause can be one of the cause value
listed in this Corrigendum under
.BR CC_RELEASE_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.SH "Management Primitives"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_RESTART_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_RESTART_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
For compatibility between CCS providers conforming to Q.931 and CCS provider
conforming to Q.1920, if the CCS provider conforming to Q.1920 receives a
.BR CC_RESTART_REQ (7),
the provider should respond with
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
with the error
.RB [ CCNOTSUPP ].
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_RESET_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_RESET_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_GROUP"
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a group
of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the specified
call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a circuit
group identifier.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address which consists of a circuit identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_RESET_IND 
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_RESET_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_GROUP"
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a group
of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the specified
call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a circuit
group identifier.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address which consists of a circuit identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_RESET_RES
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_RESET_RES (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_GROUP"
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a group
of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the specified
call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a circuit
group identifier.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address which consists of a circuit identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_RESET_CON
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_RESET_CON (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_GROUP"
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a group
of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the specified
call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a circuit
group identifier.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address which consists of a circuit identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_BLOCKING_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_BLOCKING_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_GROUP"
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a group
of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the specified
call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a circuit
group identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_MAINTENANCE_ORIENTED ", " BICC_HARDWARE_FAILURE_ORIENTED
When one of these flags is set it indicates that either maintenance oriented
or hardware failure oriented blocking is to be performed.  If both or neither
of these flags are set, the primitive will fail with error
.RB [ CCBADFLAG ].
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address which consists of a circuit identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_BLOCKING_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_BLOCKING_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_GROUP"
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a group
of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the specified
call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a circuit
group identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_MAINTENANCE_ORIENTED ", " BICC_HARDWARE_FAILURE_ORIENTED
When one of these flags is set it indicates that either maintenance oriented
or hardware failure oriented blocking is to be performed.  If both or neither
of these flags are set, the primitive will fail with error
.RB [ CCBADFLAG ].
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address which consists of a circuit identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_BLOCKING_RES
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_BLOCKING_RES (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_GROUP"
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a group
of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the specified
call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a circuit
group identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_MAINTENANCE_ORIENTED ", " BICC_HARDWARE_FAILURE_ORIENTED
When one of these flags is set it indicates that either maintenance oriented
or hardware failure oriented blocking is to be performed.  If both or neither
of these flags are set, the primitive will fail with error
.RB [ CCBADFLAG ].
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address which consists of a circuit identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_BLOCKING_CON
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_BLOCKING_CON (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_GROUP"
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a group
of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the specified
call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a circuit
group identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_MAINTENANCE_ORIENTED ", " BICC_HARDWARE_FAILURE_ORIENTED
When one of these flags is set it indicates that either maintenance oriented
or hardware failure oriented blocking is to be performed.  If both or neither
of these flags are set, the primitive will fail with error
.RB [ CCBADFLAG ].
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address which consists of a circuit identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_UNBLOCKING_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_UNBLOCKING_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_GROUP"
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a group
of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the specified
call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a circuit
group identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_MAINTENANCE_ORIENTED ", " BICC_HARDWARE_FAILURE_ORIENTED
When one of these flags is set it indicates that either maintenance oriented
or hardware failure oriented blocking is to be performed.  If both or neither
of these flags are set, the primitive will fail with error
.RB [ CCBADFLAG ].
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address which consists of a circuit identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_UNBLOCKING_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_UNBLOCKING_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_GROUP"
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a group
of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the specified
call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a circuit
group identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_MAINTENANCE_ORIENTED ", " BICC_HARDWARE_FAILURE_ORIENTED
When one of these flags is set it indicates that either maintenance oriented
or hardware failure oriented blocking is to be performed.  If both or neither
of these flags are set, the primitive will fail with error
.RB [ CCBADFLAG ].
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address which consists of a circuit identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_UNBLOCKING_RES
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_UNBLOCKING_RES (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_GROUP"
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a group
of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the specified
call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a circuit
group identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_MAINTENANCE_ORIENTED ", " BICC_HARDWARE_FAILURE_ORIENTED
When one of these flags is set it indicates that either maintenance oriented
or hardware failure oriented blocking is to be performed.  If both or neither
of these flags are set, the primitive will fail with error
.RB [ CCBADFLAG ].
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address which consists of a circuit identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_UNBLOCKING_CON
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_UNBLOCKING_CON (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_GROUP"
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a group
of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the specified
call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a circuit
group identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR BICC_MAINTENANCE_ORIENTED ", " BICC_HARDWARE_FAILURE_ORIENTED
When one of these flags is set it indicates that either maintenance oriented
or hardware failure oriented blocking is to be performed.  If both or neither
of these flags are set, the primitive will fail with error
.RB [ CCBADFLAG ].
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address which consists of a circuit identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_QUERY_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_QUERY_REQ (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_GROUP"
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a group
of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the specified
call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a circuit
group identifier.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address which consists of a circuit identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_QUERY_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_QUERY_IND (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_GROUP"
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a group
of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the specified
call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a circuit
group identifier.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address which consists of a circuit identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_QUERY_RES
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_QUERY_RES (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_GROUP"
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a group
of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the specified
call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a circuit
group identifier.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address which consists of a circuit identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS CC_QUERY_CON
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR CC_QUERY_CON (7)
with the following protocol-specific considerations:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Parameters"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_flags
Indicates the options flags.
.RS
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B "BICC_GROUP"
When set, this flag indicates that the operation is to be performed on a group
of call control addresses and that any circuit identifier in the specified
call control address is to be interpreted by the CCS provider as a circuit
group identifier.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_length
Indicates the length of the address which consists of a circuit identifier.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I cc_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the address from the start of the block.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B "Rules"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/cci_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
t1.bicc.1-2000 to t1.bicc.7-2000
.]
.[
cci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
