'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: cci_bssap.7.man,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-29 07:10:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: cci_bssap.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-04-29 07:10:30  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/12/27 16:36:00  brian
.\" - added slpmod module and fixups for make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:19  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH CCI-BSSAP 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B CCI-BSSAP
\- Call Control Interface \- Corregendum for GSM 09.12 Conformance
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/cci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bssapi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bssapi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " bssap_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/bssap\fI ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This Corrigendum describes the formats and rules that are specific to GSM
09.12.  The Corrigendum must be used along with the generic CCI as defined in
.BR cci (7)
when implementing a CCS provider that will be configured with the GSM 09.12
call processing layer.
.SS "Call Control Addresses"
.PP
The format of the call control address for GSM 09.12 conforming CCS providers
is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct gsma_addr {
    ulong scope;   /* the scope of the identifier */
    ulong id;      /* the identifier within the scope */
    ulong cid;     /* channel id */
} gsma_addr_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.TP
.I scope
conveys the scope of the call control address.
See
.IR \*(lqScope\*(rq ,
below.
.TP
.I id
conveys the identifier within the
.IR scope .
.TP
.I cid
.PP
.B Scope
.PP
The
.I scope
of the call control address is one of the following:
.TP
.B GSMA_SCOPE_CT
Conveys that the
.I scope
of the call control address is a GSM-A circuit.  The
.I id
within this
.I scope
is an circuit identifier that uniquely identifies a circuit to the CCS
provider.
.TP
.B GSMA_SCOPE_BSS
Conveys that
.I scope
of the call control address is a GSM-A Base Station (BSS).  The
.I id
within this
.I scope
is an identifier that uniquely identifies a base station to the CCS provider.
.TP
.B GSMA_SCOPE_MSC
Conveys that
.I scope
of the call control address is a Mobile Switching Center (MSC).  The
.I id
within this
.I scope
is an identifier that uniquely identifies a mobile switching center to the CCS
provider.
.TP
.B GSMA_SCOPE_DF
Conveys that the
.I scope
of the call control address is the default scope.
The
.I id
within the
.I scope
is unused and should be ignored by the CCS user and will be coded zero (0) by
the CCS provider.
.PP
.B Rules
.PP
Rules for
.IR scope :
.IP \(em 4
In primitives in which the address parameter occurs, the
.I scope
field setting indicates the scope of the address parameter.
.IP \(em
Only one call control address can be specified within a single
.IR scope .
.IP \(em
Not all scopes are necessarily supported by all primitives.  See the
particular primitive, below.
.PP
Rules for call control addresses:
.IP \(em 4
The address contained in a primitive must contain a
.I scope
and an
.I id
within the
.I scope
(zero (0) is a valid
.IR id ).
.IP \(em
If the
.I scope of the address is
.BR GSMA_SCOPE_DF ,
then the
.I id
and
.I port
fields should be coded zero (0) and will be ignored by the CCS user or
provider.
.IP \(em
In all scopes other than
.BR GSMA_SCOPE_DF ,
the
.I cid
field is optional and coded zero (0) if unused.
.SS "Optional Parameters"
.PP
The format of the optional parameters for BSSAP conforming CCS providers are
formatted as optional Information Elements as defined in GSM 09.12.
.PP
Rules for optional parameters:
.IP \(em 4
The optional parameters provider by the CCS user may be checked for format by
the CCS provider.  If the CCS provider discovers formatting errors in the
optional parameters, the CCS provider should respond with a
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with error
.RB [ CCBADOPT ].
.IP \(em
For some primitive, specific optional parameters might be interpreted by the
CCS provider and alter the function of some primitives.  See the specific
primitive description for more details.
.IP \(em
Except for optional parameters interpreted by the CCS provider as specified
along with the primitives, the optional parameters are treated as opaque and
the optional parameter list is only check for format.  Opaque parameters will
be passed to the BSSAP message without examination by the CCS provider.
.IP \(em
To perform specific functions, additional mandatory or optional parameters may
be added to the BSSAP message by the CCS provider.
.IP \(em
To perform specific functions, optional parameters may be interpreted and
modified by the CCS provider before being added to the BSSAP message.
.SS "Service Primitives"
.PP
.PP
.B "Local Management Primitives"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_INFO_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_INFO_ACK\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_BIND_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_BIND_ACK\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_OPTMGMT_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_OPTMGMT_ACK\fR(7):T{
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Call Setup Primitives"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_SETUP_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_SETUP_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_SETUP_RES\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_SETUP_CON\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_CALL_REATTEMPT_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_SETUP_COMPLETE_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_SETUP_COMPLETE_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Continuity Check Primitives"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_CONT_CHECK_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_CONT_CHECK_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_CONT_TEST_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_CONT_TEST_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_CONT_REPORT_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_CONT_REPORT_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Call Establishment Primitives"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_MORE_INFO_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_MORE_INFO_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_INFORMATION_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_INFORMATION_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_INFO_TIMEOUT_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_PROCEEDING_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_PROCEEDING_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_ALERTING_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_ALERTING_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_PROGRESS_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_PROGRESS_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Call Established Primitives"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_SUSPEND_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_SUSPEND_IND\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_SUSPEND_RES\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_SUSPEND_CON\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_SUSPEND_REJECT_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_SUSPEND_REJECT_IND\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_IND\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_RES\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_CON\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_REJECT_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_REJECT_IND\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Supplementary Services Primitives
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_FACILITY_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_FACILITY_IND\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_HOLD_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_HOLD_IND\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_HOLD_RES\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_HOLD_CON\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RETRIEVE_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RETRIEVE_IND\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RETRIEVE_RES\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RETRIEVE_CON\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_REGISTER_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_REGISTER_IND\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Call Termination Primitives"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_REJECT_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_CALL_FAILURE_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_DISCONNECT_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_DISCONNECT_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_RELEASE_REQ\fR(7):T{
T}
\fBCC_RELEASE_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Management Primitives"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_RESTART_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RESET_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RESET_IND\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RESET_RES\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_RESET_CON\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_BLOCKING_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_BLOCKING_IND\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_BLOCKING_RES\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_BLOCKING_CON\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_UNBLOCKING_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_UNBLOCKING_IND\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_UNBLOCKING_RES\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_UNBLOCKING_CON\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_QUERY_REQ\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_QUERY_IND\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_QUERY_RES\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
\fBCC_QUERY_CON\fR(7):T{
.I (not used)
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Maintenance Primitives"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)ls.
\fBCC_MAINT_IND\fR(7):T{
T}
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
Following is a mapping of GSM 04.07 call control primitives onto CCI
primitives:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lblblb.
GSM 04.07 Primitive:Section:CCI Primitive
.T&
lllb.
_
MNCC_SETUP_REQ:6.2.2.1:\fBCC_SETUP_REQ\fR(7)
MNCC_SETUP_IND:6.2.2.2:\fBCC_SETUP_IND\fR(7)
MNCC_SETUP_RES:6.2.2.3:\fBCC_SETUP_RES\fR(7)
MNCC_SETUP_CNF:6.2.2.4:\fBCC_SETUP_CON\fR(7)
MNCC_SETUP_COMPL_REQ:6.2.2.5:\fBCC_SETUP_COMPLETE_REQ\fR(7)
MNCC_SETUP_COMPL_IND:6.2.2.6:\fBCC_SETUP_COMPLETE_IND\fR(7)
MNCC_REJ_REQ:6.2.2.7:\fBCC_REJECT_REQ\fR(7)
MNCC_REJ_IND:6.2.2.8:\fBCC_REJECT_IND\fR(7)
MNCC_CALL_CONF_REQ:6.2.2.9:\fBCC_SETUP_RES\fR(7)
MNCC_CALL_PROC_IND:6.2.2.10:\fBCC_PROCEEDING_IND\fR(7)
MNCC_PROGRESS_IND:6.2.2.11:\fBCC_PROGRESS_IND\fR(7)
MNCC_ALERT_REQ:6.2.2.12:\fBCC_ALERTING_REQ\fR(7)
MNCC_ALERT_IND:6.2.2.13:\fBCC_ALERTING_IND\fR(7)
MNCC_NOTIFY_REQ:6.2.2.14:\fBCC_NOTIFY_REQ\fR(7)
MNCC_NOTIFY_IND:6.2.2.15:\fBCC_NOTIFY_IND\fR(7)
MNCC_DISC_REQ:6.2.2.16:\fBCC_DISCONNECT_REQ\fR(7)
MNCC_DISC_IND:6.2.2.17:\fBCC_DISCONNECT_IND\fR(7)
MNCC_REL_REQ:6.2.2.18:\fBCC_RELEASE_REQ\fR(7)
MNCC_REL_IND:6.2.2.19:\fBCC_RELEASE_IND\fR(7)
MNCC_REL_CNF:6.2.2.20:\fBCC_RELEASE_IND\fR(7)
MNCC_FACILITY_REQ:6.2.2.21:\fBCC_FACILITY_REQ\fR(7)
MNCC_FACILITY_IND:6.2.2.22:\fBCC_FACILITY_IND\fR(7)
MNCC_START_DTMF_REQ:6.2.2.23:\(em
MNCC_START_DTMF_CNF:6.2.2.24:\(em
MNCC_STOP_DTMF_REQ:6.2.2.25:\(em
MNCC_STOP_DTMF_CNF:6.2.2.26:\(em
MNCC_MODIFY_REQ:6.2.2.27:\(em
MNCC_MODIFY_IND:6.2.2.28:\(em
MNCC_MODIFY_RES:6.2.2.29:\(em
MNCC_MODIFY_CNF:6.2.2.30:\(em
MNCC_SYNC_IND:6.2.2.31:\(em
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7),
.BR bssap (4),
.BR gsma (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bssapi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bssapi_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/bssap .
.\"
.\"
.\".SH VERSIONS
.\".PP
.\"
.XX
.[
ETSI TS 100 939-V7.3.0 (1999-12)
.]
.[
ETSI ETS 300 557-1999
.]
.[
ETSI TS 100 940-V7.10.0 (2000-12)
.]
.[
ETSI TS 100 940-V7.8.0 (2000-10)
.]
.[
ETSI TS 101 642-V8.0.0 (2000-06)
.]
.[
gsm0806
.]
.[
3gppts0806
.]
.[
ETSI ETS 300 590-1998
.]
.[
ETSI TS 100 590-V8.5.0 (2000-08)
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
