'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: cci_isdn.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:19 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:19 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: cci_isdn.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:19  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CCI-ISDN 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Call Control Interface (CCI)"
.SH NAME
.B CCI-ISDN
\- Call Control Interface \- Corrigendum for Q.931/932 Conformance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/cci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/isdni.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/isdni_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " isdn_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/isdn\fR ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This Corrigendum describes the formats and rules that are specific to ISDN
Q.931/932.
.[
q931
.]
.[
q932
.]
The Corrigendum must be used along with the generic CCI as defined
in
.BR cci (7)
when implementing a CCS provider that will be configured with the
ISDN Q.931/932
.[
q931
.]
.[
q932
.]
The Corrigendum must be used along with the generic CCI as defined
call processing layer.
.SS "Address Format"
.PP
The format of the call control address for ISDN Q.931/932
.[
q931
.]
.[
q932
.]
The Corrigendum must be used along with the generic CCI as defined
conforming CCS
providers is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct isdn_addr {
        ulong scope;        /* the scope of the identifier */
        ulong id;           /* the identifier within the scope */
        ulong chan;         /* B-channel identifier */
} isdn_addr_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.TP
.I scope
.TP
.I id
.TP
.I chan
.PP
.B Scope
.PP
The
.I scope
of the call control address is one of the following:
.TP
.B ISDN_SCOPE_CH
Conveys that the
.I scope
of the call control address is a channel.  The
.I id
within the
.I scope
is a channel that uniquely identifies a YYY to the CCS provider
.TP
.B ISDN_SCOPE_FG
Conveys that the
.I scope
of the call control address is a facility group.  The
.I id
within the
.I scope
is a facility group that uniquely identifies a YYY to the CCS provider
.TP
.B ISDN_SCOPE_TG
Conveys that the
.I scope
of the call control address is a transmission group.  The
.I id
within the
.I scope
is a transmission group that uniquely identifies a YYY to the CCS provider
.TP
.B ISDN_SCOPE_EG
Conveys that the
.I scope
of the call control address is a equipment group.  The
.I id
within the
.I scope
is a equipment group that uniquely identifies a YYY to the CCS provider
.TP
.B ISDN_SCOPE_XG
Conveys that the
.I scope
of the call control address is a exchange group.  The
.I id
within the
.I scope
is a exchange group that uniquely identifies a YYY to the CCS provider
.TP
.B ISDN_SCOPE_DF
Conveys that the
.I scope
of the call control address is a default.  The
.I id
within the
.I scope
is a default that uniquely identifies a YYY to the CCS provider
.PP
.B Rules
.PP
Rules for call conrol addresses:
.IP \(em 4
In primitives in which the address parameter occurs, the
.I scope
field setting indicates the scope of the address parameter.
.IP \(em
Only one call control address can be specified within a single
.IR scope.
.IP \(em
Not all scopes are necessarily supported by all primitives.  See the
particular primitive definition, below.
.IP \(em 4
The address contained in a primitive must contain a
.I scope
and an
.I id
within the
.I socpe
(zero (0) is a valid
.I id
indicating that the
.I id
is unspecified).
.IP \(em
If the
.I scope
of the address is
.BR ISDN_SCOPE_DF ,
the
.I id
and
.I chan
fields should be coded zero (0) and will be ignored by the CCS user or
provider.
.IP \(em
In all scopes other than
.BR ISDN_SCOPE_DF ,
the
.I chan
field is optional and coded zero (0) if unused.
.IP \(em
.SS "Options"
.PP
The format of the options for ISDN conforming CCS providers are formatted as
optional Information Elements as defined in ISDN Q.931/932.
.[
q931
.]
.[
q932
.]
The Corrigendum must be used along with the generic CCI as defined
.PP
Rules for optional parameters:
.IP \(em 4
Th optional information elements provided by the CCS user may be checked for
format by the CCS provider.  If the CCS provider discovers formatting errors
in the optional information elements, the CCS provider should respond with a
.BR CC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with error
.RB [ CCBADOPT ].
.IP \(em
For some primitives, specific optional information elements might be
interpreted by the CCS provider and alter the function of some primitives.
See the specific primitive description for more details.
.IP \(em
Except for optional information elements interpreted by the CCS provider as
specified along with the primitives, the optional information elements are
treated as opaque and the optional information element list is only checked
for format.  Opaque parameters will be passed to the ISDN message without
examination by the CCS provider.
.IP \(em
To perform specific functions, additional mandatory or optional information
elements may be added to the ISDN message by the CCS provider.
.IP \(em
To perform specific functions, optional information elements may be
interpreted and modified by the CCS provider being added to the ISDN message.
.IP \(em
.SS "Primitives"
.PP
.PP
.B "Local Management Primitives"
.PP
.ad l
.hy 0
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)clss.
Primitive:Mode:Description
_
\fBCC_INFO_REQ\fR(7):Local:T{
Information request.
T}
\fBCC_INFO_ACK\fR(7):Local:T{
Information acknowledgement.
T}
\fBCC_ADDR_REQ\fR(7):Local:T{
Address request.
T}
\fBCC_ADDR_ACK\fR(7):Local:T{
Address acknowledgement.
T}
\fBCC_BIND_REQ\fR(7):Local:T{
Bind protocol address request.
T}
\fBCC_BIND_ACK\fR(7):Local:T{
Bind protocol address acknowledgement.
T}
\fBCC_UNBIND_REQ\fR(7):Local:T{
Unbind protocol address request.
T}
\fBCC_OK_ACK\fR(7):Local:T{
Successful receipt acknowledgement.
T}
\fBCC_ERROR_ACK\fR(7):Local:T{
Error acknowledgement.
T}
\fBCC_OPTMGMT_REQ\fR(7):Local:T{
Options management request.
T}
\fBCC_OPTMGMT_ACK\fR(7):Local:T{
Options management acknowledgement.
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Call Setup Primitives"
.PP
.ad l
.hy 0
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)clss.
Primitive:Mode:Description
_
\fBCC_SETUP_REQ\fR(7):All:T{
Outgoing call setup request.
T}
\fBCC_SETUP_CON\fR(7):All:T{
Outgoing call setup confirmation.
T}
\fBCC_SETUP_IND\fR(7):All:T{
Incoming call setup indication.
T}
\fBCC_SETUP_RES\fR(7):All:T{
Incoming call setup response.
T}
\fBCC_CALL_REATTEMPT_IND\fR(7):NNI Local:T{
Call reattempt indication.
T}
\fBCC_SETUP_COMPLETE_REQ\fR(7):N->U:T{
Incoming call setup complete request.
T}
\fBCC_SETUP_COMPLETE_IND\fR(7):N->U:T{
Outgoing call setup complete indication.
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Continuity Check Primitives"
.PP
.ad l
.hy 0
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)clss.
Primitive:Mode:Description
_
\fBCC_CONT_CHECK_REQ\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Continuity check request.
T}
\fBCC_CONT_CHECK_IND\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Continuity check indication.
T}
\fBCC_CONT_TEST_REQ\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Continuity test request.
T}
\fBCC_CONT_TEST_IND\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Continuity test indication.
T}
\fBCC_CONT_REPORT_REQ\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Continuity report result request.
T}
\fBCC_CONT_REPORT_IND\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Continuity report result indication.
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Call Establishment Primitives"
.PP
.ad l
.hy 0
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)clss.
Primitive:Mode:Description
_
\fBCC_MORE_INFO_REQ\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
More information request.
T}
\fBCC_MORE_INFO_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
More information indication.
T}
\fBCC_INFORMATION_REQ\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Information request.
T}
\fBCC_INFORMATION_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Information indication.
T}
\fBCC_PROCEEDING_REQ\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call setup proceeding request.
T}
\fBCC_PROCEEDING_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call setup proceeding indication.
T}
\fBCC_ALERTING_REQ\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call setup alerting request.
T}
\fBCC_ALERTING_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call setup alerting indication.
T}
\fBCC_PROGRESS_REQ\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call setup progress request.
T}
\fBCC_PROGRESS_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call setup progress indication.
T}
\fBCC_FORWXFER_REQ\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Call forward transfer request.
T}
\fBCC_FORWXFER_IND\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Call forward transfer indication.
T}
\fBCC_CONNECT_REQ\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call connect request.
T}
\fBCC_CONNECT_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call connect indication.
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Call Established Primitives"
.PP
.ad l
.hy 0
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)clss.
Primitive:Mode:Description
_
\fBCC_SUSPEND_REQ\fR(7):U->N:T{
Call suspend request.
T}
\fBCC_SUSPEND_IND\fR(7):U->N:T{
Call suspend indication.
T}
\fBCC_SUSPEND_RES\fR(7):N->U:T{
Call suspend response.
T}
\fBCC_SUSPEND_CON\fR(7):N->U:T{
Call suspend confirmation.
T}
\fBCC_SUSPEND_REJECT_REQ\fR(7):N->U:T{
Call suspend reject request.
T}
\fBCC_SUSPEND_REJECT_IND\fR(7):N->U:T{
Call suspend reject indication.
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_REQ\fR(7):U->N:T{
Call resume request.
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_IND\fR(7):U->N:T{
Call resume indicaiton.
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_RES\fR(7):N->U:T{
Call resume response.
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_CON\fR(7):N->U:T{
Call resume confirmation.
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_REJECT_REQ\fR(7):N->U:T{
Call resume reject request.
T}
\fBCC_RESUME_REJECT_IND\fR(7):N->U:T{
Call resume reject indication.
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Supplementary Services Primitives
.PP
.ad l
.hy 0
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)clss.
Primitive:Mode:Description
_
\fBCC_FACILITY_REQ\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Facility request.
T}
\fBCC_FACILITY_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Facility indication.
T}
\fBCC_HOLD_REQ\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call hold request.
T}
\fBCC_HOLD_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call hold indication.
T}
\fBCC_HOLD_RES\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call hold response.
T}
\fBCC_HOLD_CON\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call hold confirmation.
T}
\fBCC_RETRIEVE_REQ\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call retrieve request.
T}
\fBCC_RETRIEVE_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call retrieve indication.
T}
\fBCC_RETRIEVE_RES\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call retrieve response.
T}
\fBCC_RETRIEVE_CON\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call retrieve confirmation.
T}
\fBCC_REGISTER_REQ\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Service register request.
T}
\fBCC_REGISTER_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Service register indication.
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Call Termination Primitives"
.PP
.ad l
.hy 0
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)clss.
Primitive:Mode:Description
_
\fBCC_INFO_TIMEOUT_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Information timeout indication.
T}
\fBCC_REJECT_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call reject indication.
T}
\fBCC_CALL_FAILURE_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call failure indication.
T}
\fBCC_IBI_REQ\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Call disconnect request.
T}
\fBCC_IBI_IND\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Call disconnect indication.
T}
\fBCC_DISCONNECT_REQ\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call disconnect request.
T}
\fBCC_DISCONNECT_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call disconnect indication.
T}
\fBCC_RELEASE_REQ\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call release request.
T}
\fBCC_RELEASE_CON\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call release confirmation.
T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Management Primitives"
.PP
.ad l
.hy 0
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)clss.
Primitive:Mode:Description
_
\fBCC_RESTART_REQ\fR(7):Local:T{
Interface restart request.
T}
\fBCC_RESTART_CON\fR(7):Local:T{
Interface restart confirmation.
T}
\fBCC_NOTIFY_REQ\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call notification request.
T}
\fBCC_NOTIFY_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call notification indication.
T}
\fBCC_STATUS_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call status indication.
T}
\fBCC_ERROR_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call error indication.
T}
\fBCC_DATALINK_FAILURE_IND\fR(7):U->N, N->U:T{
Call datalink failure indication.
T}
\fBCC_STOP_REQ\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Interface stop request.
T}
\fBCC_STOP_IND\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Interface stop indication.
T}
\fBCC_START_RESET_IND\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Interface start reset indication.
T}
\fBCC_RESET_REQ\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Circuit (group) reset request.
T}
\fBCC_RESET_IND\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Circuit (group) reset indicaiton.
T}
\fBCC_RESET_RES\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Circuit (group) reset response.
T}
\fBCC_RESET_CON\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Circuit (group) reset confirmation.
T}
\fBCC_BLOCKING_REQ\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Circuit (group) blocking request.
T}
\fBCC_BLOCKING_IND\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Circuit (group) blocking indication.
T}
\fBCC_BLOCKING_RES\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Circuit (group) blocking response.
T}
\fBCC_BLOCKING_CON\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Circuit (group) blocking confirmation.
T}
\fBCC_UNBLOCKING_REQ\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Circuit (group) unblocking request.
T}
\fBCC_UNBLOCKING_IND\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Circuit (group) unblocking indication.
T}
\fBCC_UNBLOCKING_RES\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Circuit (group) unblocking response.
T}
\fBCC_UNBLOCKING_CON\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Circuit (group) unblocking confirmation.
T}
\fBCC_QUERY_REQ\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Circuit (group) query request.
T}
\fBCC_QUERY_IND\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Circuit (group) query indication.
T}
\fBCC_QUERY_RES\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Circuit (group) query response.
T}
\fBCC_QUERY_CON\fR(7):N->N:T{
.I (not used)
Circuit (group) query confirmation.
T}
.\"\fBCC_DISCOVER_REQ\fR(7):U->U:T{
.\".I (not used)
.\"Gatekeeper discover request.
.\"T}
.\"\fBCC_DISCOVER_IND\fR(7):U->U:T{
.\".I (not used)
.\"Gatekeeper discover indication.
.\"T}
.\"\fBCC_DISCOVER_RES\fR(7):U->U:T{
.\".I (not used)
.\"Gatekeeper discover response.
.\"T}
.\"\fBCC_DISCOVER_CON\fR(7):U->U:T{
.\".I (not used)
.\"Gatekeeper discover confirmation.
.\"T}
.\"\fBCC_ADMISSION_REQ\fR(7):U->U:T{
.\".I (not used)
.\"Gatekeeper admission request.
.\"T}
.\"\fBCC_ADMISSION_IND\fR(7):U->U:T{
.\".I (not used)
.\"Gatekeeper admission indication.
.\"T}
.\"\fBCC_ADMISSION_RES\fR(7):U->U:T{
.\".I (not used)
.\"Gatekeeper admission response.
.\"T}
.\"\fBCC_ADMISSION_CON\fR(7):U->U:T{
.\".I (not used)
.\"Gatekeeper admission confirmation.
.\"T}
.TE
.PP
.B "Maintenance Primitives"
.PP
.ad l
.hy 0
.TS
tab(:);
lw(2.5i)clss.
Primitive:Mode:Description
_
\fBCC_MAINT_IND\fR(7):Local:T{
T}
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cci (7),
.BR bssap (4),
.BR gsma (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bssapi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bssapi_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/bssap .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q930
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
