'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CD_BAD_FRAME_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/05/12 10:14:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/05/12 10:14:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CD_BAD_FRAME_IND 7 "$Date: 2004/05/12 10:14:55 $" "$Name:  $" "Communications Device Interface (CDI)"
.SH NAME
.B CD_BAD_FRAME_IND
\- frame with error
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by zero or more
.B M_DATA
blocks.
The
.B M_PROTO
block is structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_state;
    cd_ulong cd_error;          /* what is wrong with the frame 
                                 */
} cd_bad_frame_ind_t;

/* Error types for CD_BAD_FRAME_IND */
#define CD_FRMTOOLONG   0xFFFF  /* frame overflowed rcv bfr */
#define CD_FRMNONOCTET  0xFFFE  /* frame not octet-aligned */
#define CD_EMPTY_BFR    0xFFFD  /* empty rcv buffer (not used) */
#define CD_BAD_CRC      0xFFFC  /* CRC error */
#define CD_FRM_ABORTED  0xFFFB  /* frame aborted */
#define CD_RCV_OVERRUN  0xFFFA  /* receive overrun */
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This provider originated primitives indicates that a frame was received in
error.  The error is indicated along with any data that is retrievable from
frame received in error.
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I cd_primitive
Indicates the primitives type.
.TP
.I cd_state
.RS
.TP
.B CD_UNATTACHED
No PPA attached.
.TP
.B CD_UNUSABLE
PPA cannot be used.
.TP
.B CD_DISABLED
PPA attached.
.TP
.B CD_ENABLE_PENDING
Waiting ack of enable req.
.TP
.B CD_ENABLED
Awaiting use.
.TP
.B CD_READ_ACTIVE
Input section enabled; disabled after data arrives.
.TP
.B CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
Input section permanently enabled.
.TP
.B CD_DISABLE_PENDING
Waiting ack of disable req.
.TP
.B CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
Output section active only.
.TP
.B CD_XRAY
Xray-ing another ppa.
.RE
.TP
.I cd_error
Indicates the error encountered on the frame.  Amoung other values defined for
a particular device, this error can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B CD_FRMTOOLONG
The frame was too long; it overflowed the receive buffer.  The data that was
successfully received is in the
.B M_DATA
message blocks associated with the primitive.
.TP
.B CD_FRMNONOCTET
The frame was not octet-align.  This is a residue error.
The data that was successfully received (not including the residue error bits)
is in the
.B M_DATA
message blocks associated with the primitive.
.TP
.B CD_EMPTY_BFR
The receive buffer is empty.  This error is not normally used.
No
.B M_DATA
blocks are included with this error.
.TP
.B CD_BAD_CRC
There was a CRC error in an otherwise correctly received frame.
The data that was successfully received, but which failed CRC calculation,
is in the
.B M_DATA
message blocks associated with the primitive.
.TP
.B CD_FRM_ABORTED
The frame was aborted.
Any successfully received octets at the time of the abort are included in the
.B M_DATA
message blocks associated with the primitive.
.TP
.B CD_RCV_OVERRUN
There was a receiver overrun in during the reception of the frame.
Any successfully received octets up to the point of the receiver overrun are
included in the
.B M_DATA
message blocks associated with the primitive.
.RE
.SS State
After issuing this primitive, the state remains unchanged.
.SH FILES
<sys/cdi.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CD_UNITDATA_ACK (7),
.BR CD_UNITDATA_REQ (7),
.BR CD_WRITE_READ_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Communications Device Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to CDI with Gcom extensions.
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
