'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CD_MODEM_SIG_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-29 07:10:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CD_MODEM_SIG_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-29 07:10:22  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:13  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CD_MODEM_SIG_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Communications Device Interface (CDI)"
.SH NAME
.B CD_MODEM_SIG_IND
\- report modem signals
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
.\"/*
.\" * CD_MODEM_SIG_IND, M_PROTO type
.\" *
.\" * The cd_sigs field reports the current state of the modem signals.
.\" * This message is sent when modem signals change at the hardware
.\" * interface.  Only changes in signals selected by the cd_modem_sig_enb_req_t
.\" * cd_sigs mask will be evaluated for purposes of change detection.
.\" */
typedef struct {
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_sigs;
} cd_modem_sig_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This provider originated primitives indicates the status of a number of modem
lines and signals.  This primitive is issued in response to a change in modem
signals or in response to a
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL (7)
primitive.
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I cd_primitive
Indicates the primitives type.
.TP
.I cd_sigs
Indicates the state of specific modem lines and signals as a bitwise OR of any
of the following flags (when the flag is set, the signal is asserted):
.RS
.TP
.B CD_DTR
Data terminal ready.
.TP
.B CD_RTS
Request to send.
.TP
.B CD_DSR
Data set ready.
.TP
.B CD_DCD
Data carrier detect.
.TP
.B CD_CTS
Clear to send.
.TP
.B CD_RI
Ring indicator.
.RE
.SS State
This primitive can be issued by the CD provider in any state.
.SH FILES
<sys/cdi.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL (7),
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Communications Device Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to CDI with Gcom extensions.
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
