'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/05/12 10:14:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/05/12 10:14:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL 7 "$Date: 2004/05/12 10:14:55 $" "$Name:  $" "Communications Device Interface (CDI)"
.SH NAME
.B CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL
\- request a
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_IND (7)
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
} cd_modem_sig_poll_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This user originated primitives requests that the CD provider respond with a
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_IND (7)
indicating the current state of modem lines and signals.
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I cd_primitive
Specifies the primitives type.
.SS State
This primitive is valid in any state other than
.B CD_UNUSABLED
or
.BR CD_UNATTACHED ,
and where a local acknowledgment is not pending.
.SH RESPONSE
This primitive requires the CD provider to respond with an acknowledgement
message as follows:
.PP
.B Successful:
When successful, the CD provider responds with a
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_IND (7)
indicating the state of modem leads and signals.
.PP
.B Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):
When unsuccessful, the CD provider responds with a
.BR CD_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive indicating the reason for failure.
.SH ERRORS
.B Non-fatal errors:
applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADADDRESS ]
.\"Address was invalid.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADADDRTYPE ]
.\"Invalid address type.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDIAL ]
.\"Dial information was invalid.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDIALTYPE ]
.\"Invalid dial information type.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDISPOSAL ]
.\"Invalid disposal parameter.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADFRAME ]
.\"Defective SDU received.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADPPA ]
.\"Invalid PPA identifier.
.TP
.RB [ CD_BADPRIM ]
Unrecognized primitive.
.TP
.RB [ CD_DISC ]
Disconnected.
.TP
.RB [ CD_EVENT ]
Protocol-specific event occurred.
.TP
.RB [ CD_FATALERR ]
Device has become unusable.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_INITFAILED ]
.\"Line initialization failed.
.TP
.RB [ CD_NOTSUPP ]
Primitive not supported by this device.
.TP
.RB [ CD_OUTSTATE ]
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CD_PROTOSHORT ]
M_PROTO block too short.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_READTIMEOUT ]
.\"Read request timed out before data arrived.
.TP
.RB [ CD_SYSERR ]
UNIX system error.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_WRITEFAIL ]
.\"Unitdata request failed.
.SH FILES
<sys/cdi.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_IND (7),
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Communications Device Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to CDI with Gcom extensions.
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
