'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: cdi.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2005/01/26 07:58:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corp. <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CDI 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:13 $" "$Name:  $" "Communications Device Interface (CDI)"
.SH NAME
.B CDI
\- Communications Device Interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Communications Device Interface (CDI) is a low-level device interface that
is defined between a
.I user
and a
.I provider
using
.IR STREAMS (4)
and the
.BR putmsg (2)
and
.BR getmsg (2)
system calls.
.SS "Local Manaement Primitives"
The following management primitives are common to all styles of communication
providers and devices.
.TP
.BR CD_INFO_REQ (7)
Requests information concerning the communications device, provider limits, styles and features.
.TP
.BR CD_INFO_ACK (7)
Provides information concerning the communications device, provider limits, styles and features.
.TP
.BR CD_ATTACH_REQ (7)
Requests that a Style 2 communications device provider be attached to the
speciifed physical point of appearance (PPA).
.TP
.BR CD_DETACH_REQ (7)
Requests that a Style 2 communications device provider be detached from the
attached physical point of appearance (PPA).
.TP
.BR CD_OK_ACK (7)
Provides positive acknowledgment of request primitives that require
acknowledgment.
.TP
.BR CD_ERROR_ACK (7).
Provides negative acknowledgment of request primitives that require
acknowledgment.
.SS "Device Connection Primitives"
The following primitves enable and disable the communications device for
transmission.
.TP
.BR CD_ENABLE_REQ (7)
Requests that the communications device be enabled on the attached physical
point of appearance and with an optional dial string.
.TP
.BR CD_ENABLE_CON (7)
Provides confirmation of the
.BR CD_ENABLE_REQ (7)
primitive.
.TP
.BR CD_DISABLE_REQ (7)
Requests that the communications device be disabled on the attached physical
point of appearance.
.TP
.BR CD_DISABLE_CON (7).
Provides confirmation of the
.BR CD_DISABLE_REQ (7)
primitive.
.SS "Device Data Transfer Primitives"
.PP
The following primitives provide for the indication of errors associated with
received or transmitted data.
.TP
.BR CD_ERROR_IND (7)
Provides indication of an error in the input or output section.
.TP
.BR CD_BAD_FRAME_IND (7)
Provides indication of a frame received in error.
.PP
The following primitives provide for the reception of data.
.TP
.BR CD_READ_REQ (7)
Requests that the communications device read received data within the timeout
specified, and then convert the input section to output.
.TP
.BR CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ (7)
Requests that the input section be enabled until the next
.BR CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ (7).
.TP
.BR CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ (7)
Requests that the input section be disabled until the next
.BR CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ (7).
.TP
.BR CD_UNITDATA_IND (7)
Provides indication of received data.
.PP
The following primitives provide for the transmission of data.
.TP
.BR CD_UNITDATA_REQ (7)
Requests the transmission of data.
.TP
.BR CD_UNITDATA_ACK (7)
Acknowledges the transmission of data or provides timing clues for paced
output.
.TP
.BR CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ (7)
Aborts the output of data.
.PP
The following primitives provide for the synchronized transmission and
reception of data on half-duplex communications devices.
.TP
.BR CD_WRITE_READ_REQ (7).
Requests that a combination of write and read be performed.
.SS "Leads and Signals"
The following primitives provide the CD user with the ability to manage modem
leads and signals.
.TP
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_IND (7)
Provides an indication of the current state of leads and signals.
.TP
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL (7)
Requests that the communications device provider reply with a
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_IND (7)
indicating the current state of modem leads and signals.
.TP
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ (7)
Requests that the specified leads and signals be asserted or deasserted.
.SS "Miscellaneous"
.BR CD_MUX_NAME_REQ (7)
Not documented.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CD_ABORT_OUTPUT_REQ (7),
.BR CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ (7),
.BR CD_ATTACH_REQ (7),
.BR CD_BAD_FRAME_IND (7),
.BR CD_DETACH_REQ (7),
.BR CD_DISABLE_CON (7),
.BR CD_DISABLE_REQ (7),
.BR CD_ENABLE_CON (7),
.BR CD_ENABLE_REQ (7),
.BR CD_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR CD_ERROR_IND (7),
.BR CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ (7),
.BR CD_INFO_ACK (7),
.BR CD_INFO_REQ (7),
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_IND (7),
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_POLL (7),
.BR CD_MODEM_SIG_REQ (7),
.BR CD_MUX_NAME_REQ (7),
.BR CD_OK_ACK (7),
.BR CD_READ_REQ (7),
.BR CD_UNITDATA_ACK (7),
.BR CD_UNITDATA_IND (7),
.BR CD_UNITDATA_REQ (7),
.BR CD_WRITE_READ_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Communications Device Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to CDI with Gcom extensions.
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
