'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CH_DISCONNECT_CON.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/04/17 23:05:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CH_DISCONNECT_CON 7 "$Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:11 $" "$Name:  $" "Channel Interface"
.SH NAME
.B CH_DISCONNECT_CON, CH_disconnect_con, CH_disconnect_con_t
\- confirm channel disconnect
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CH_disconnect_con {
    ch_ulong ch_primitive;      /* always CH_DISCONNECT_CON */
    ch_ulong ch_conn_flags;     /* direction disconnected */
    ch_ulong ch_slot;           /* slot within channel */
} CH_disconnect_con_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Confirms that a previously issued
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_REQ (7)
primitive is confirmed complete for the directions and slots indicated.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I ch_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_CON .
.TP
.I ch_conn_flags
indicates the disconnection flags.  See
.IR \*(lqFLAGS\*(rq ,
below.
.TP
.I ch_slot
indicates the slot within a multiple slot channel (e.g, stereo or quadraphonic
channel) that has been confirmed disconnected.  If the channel is not a
multiple slot channel, then this field is coded zero (0) by the channel
service provider and can be ignored by the channel service user.
.SH FLAGS
The
.I ch_conn_flags
field is a bitwise OR of one or more of the following flags indicating the
direction in which the channel is confirmed disconnected:
.TP
.B CHF_RX_DIR
confirms that the channel was disconnected in the receive direction.
.TP
.B CHF_TX_DIR
confirms that the channel was disconnected in the transmit direction.
.TP
.B CHF_BOTH_DIR
confirms that the channel was disconnected in the both directions.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Channel Service Provider.
.SH STATE
This primitive is issued in state
.BR CHS_CONNECTED .
The resulting state is
.BR CHS_ENABLED .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for CHI Version 1.
.XX
.[
chi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
