'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CH_DISCONNECT_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:27 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:27 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CH_DISCONNECT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Channel Interface (CHI)"
.SH NAME
.B CH_DISCONNECT_REQ, CH_disconnect_req, CH_disconnect_req_t
\- channel disconnection request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CH_disconnect_req {
    ch_ulong ch_primitive;      /* always CH_DISCONNECT_REQ */
    ch_ulong ch_conn_flags;     /* direction to disconnect */
    ch_ulong ch_slot;           /* slot within channel */
} CH_disconnect_req_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Requests that the channel service provider disconnect the channel associated
with the stream upon which the primitive is issued, for the directions
specified and the multiple slot channel slot specified.
.PP
Disconnection may be peformed locally by the channel service provider, or may
require interaction with the transmission peer.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I ch_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_REQ .
.TP
.I ch_conn_flags
specifies the disconnection flags.  See
.IR \*(lqFLAGS\*(rq ,
below.
.TP
.I ch_slot
specifies the slot within a multiple slot channel to disconnect.  If the
channel is not a multiple slot channel (i.e, it is monophonic), then this
field is coded zero (0) by the channel service user and ignored by the
channels service provider.
.SH FLAGS
The
.I ch_conn_flags
field contains a bitwise OR of one or more of the following disconnection
direction flags:
.TP
.B CHF_RX_DIR
specifies that the disconnect is requested in the receive direction.
.TP
.B CHF_TX_DIR
specifies that the disconnect is requested in the transmit direction.
.TP
.B CHF_BOTH_DIR
specifies that the disconnect is requested in both directions.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Channel Service User.
.SH STATE
This primitive is valid in state
.B CHS_CONNECTED
for the directions specified.
The resulting state is
.B CHS_ENABLED
for the directions specified.
.SH RULES
These primitives require the channel service provider to generate one of the
following acknowledgments on receipt of the the primitive, and the channel
service user must wait for the acknowledgment before issuing any other
primitives:
.TP
.B Successful
Correct acknowledgment of the primitive is indicated with the
.BR CH_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.  In this case, the resulting state is
.B CHS_ENABLED
for the directions specified.
.TP
.B Non-fatal errors
These errors will be indicated with the
.BR CH_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.  In this case, the resulting state is unchanged and remains the
stame as the state in which the primitive was issued.
.SH ERRORS
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP
.RB [ CHSYSERR ]
UNIX system error.
A UNIX system error occured while executing the primitive and the UNIX error
number,
.IR errno (3),
is indicated in the
.I ch_unix_error
field of the
.BR CH_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CHBADADDR ]
.\"Bad address format or content.
.TP
.RB [ CHOUTSTATE ]
Interface out of state.
The primitive would place the interface out of state.  The
.B CH_DISCONNECT_REQ
primitive is only valid in state
.B CHS_CONNECTED
for the specified directions.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CHBADOPT ]
.\"Bad options format or content.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CHBADPARM ]
.\"Bad parameter format or content.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CHBADPARMTYPE ]
.\"Bad paramater structure type.
.TP
.RB [ CHBADFLAG ]
Bad flag.
The flags specified in
.I ch_conn_flags
are invalid or the direction specified does is not supported on the requesting
stream or by the channel service provider.
.TP
.RB [ CHBADPRIM ]
Bad primitive.
The primitive type is unrecognized, or the primitive contained in the
.B M_PROTO
message block is poorly formatted.
.TP
.RB [ CHNOTSUPP ]
Primitive not supported.
The primitive type is recognized, but is not supported on the requesting
stream or by the channel service provider.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CHNOADDR ]
.\"Address could not be assigned.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CHADDRBUSY ]
.\"Address is busy.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_CON (7),
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_IND (7),
.BR CH_OK_ACK (7),
.BR CH_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for CHI Version 1.
.XX
.[
chi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
