'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CH_DISCONNECT_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/04/17 23:05:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CH_DISCONNECT_IND 7 "$Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:11 $" "$Name:  $" "Channel Interface"
.SH NAME
.B CH_DISCONNECT_IND, CH_disconnect_ind, CH_disconnect_ind_t
\- channel disconnect indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CH_disconnect_ind {
    ch_ulong ch_primitive;      /* always CH_DISCONNECT_IND */
    ch_ulong ch_conn_flags;     /* direction disconnected */
    ch_ulong ch_cause;          /* cause for disconnection */
    ch_ulong ch_slot;           /* slot within channel */
} CH_disconnect_ind_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Indicates that an authonomous disconnection of the channel associated with the
stream upon which the primitive is issued.
.PP
This primitive indicates that an error or other asynchronous event has occured
that has resulted in the autonomous disconnection of the channel associated
wtih the stream upon which the primitive is issued.
.PP
Not all service providers will necessarily issue this primitive.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I ch_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_IND .
.TP
.I ch_conn_flags
indicates the disconnection flags.  See
.IR \*(lqFLAGS\*(rq ,
below.
.TP
.I ch_cause
indicates the cause of the disconnection.  See
.IR \*(lqFLAGS\*(rq ,
below.
.TP
.I ch_slot
indicates the slot within the channel that was disconnected.
.SH FLAGS
The
.I ch_conn_flags
field can contain a bitwise OR of one ore more of the following disconnection
flags that indicates the direction(s) that hav been disconnected:
.TP
.B CHF_RX_DIR
indicates that the channel has been autonomously disconnected in the receive
direction.
.TP
.B CHF_TX_DIR
indicates that the channel has been autonomously disconnected in the transmit
direction.
.TP
.B CHF_BOTH_DIR
indicates that the channel has been autonomously disconnected in both directions.
.PP
The
.I ch_cause
field can contain one of the following cause values:
.SH ORIGINATOR
Channel Service Provider.
.SH STATE
This primtiive is issued in state
.BR CHS_CONNECTED .
The resulting state is
.BR CHS_ENABLED .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_REQ (7),
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_CON (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for CHI Version 1.
.XX
.[
chi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
