'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CH_DISABLE_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: CH_DISABLE_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:13  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CH_DISABLE_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Channel Interface (CHI)"
.SH NAME
.B CH_DISABLE_REQ, CH_disable_req, CH_disable_req_t
\- disable the channel
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CH_disable_req {
    ch_ulong ch_primitive;      /* always CH_DISABLE_REQ */
} CH_disable_req_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Requests that the channel service provider disable the channel associated with
the requesting stream.
.PP
Some channels provided by some channel service providers might require
interactions with the peer to disable the channel.  An example of such channel
types are
.BR rt (4)
channels and compressed channels.
.PP
This primitive is used to inform the underlying transmission device that the
requesting channel can be disabled.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I ch_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CH_DISABLE_REQ .
.SH ORIGINATOR
Channel Service User.
.SH STATE
This primitive is issued in state
.BR CHS_ENABLED .
The resulting state is
.BR CHS_ATTACHED .
.SH RULES
These primitives require the channel service provider to generate one of the
following acknowledgments on receipt of the primitive, and the channel service
user must wait for the acknowledgment before issuing any other primitives:
.TP
.B Successful
Correct acknowledgment of the primitive is indicated with the
.BR CH_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.  In this case, the resulting state is
.BR CHS_ATTACHED .
.TP
.B Non-fatal errors
These errors will be indicated with the
.BR CH_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.  In this case, the resultings tate is unchanged and remains the
same as the state in which the primitive was issued.
.SH ERRORS
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP
.RB [ CHSYSERR ]
UNIX system error.
A UNIX system error occured during the execution of the primitive and the UNIX
error number,
.IR errno (3),
is indicated in the
.I ch_unix_error
field of the
.BR CH_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CHBADADDR ]
.\"Bad address format or content.
.TP
.RB [ CHOUTSTATE ]
Interface out of state.
The primitive would place the interfce out of state.  The
.B CH_DISABLE_REQ
primitive is only valid in state
.BR CHS_ENABLED .
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CHBADOPT ]
.\"Bad options format or content.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CHBADPARM ]
.\"Bad parameter format or content.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CHBADPARMTYPE ]
.\"Bad paramater structure type.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CHBADFLAG ]
.\"Bad flag.
.TP
.RB [ CHBADPRIM ]
Bad primitive.
The primitive type is unrecognized or the
.B M_PROTO
message block is poorly formatted.
.TP
.RB [ CHNOTSUPP ]
Primitive not supported.
This primitive type is recognized, but is not supported by the channel service
provider on the stream upon which it was issued.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CHNOADDR ]
.\"Address could not be assigned.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CHADDRBUSY ]
.\"Address is busy.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CH_DISABLE_CON (7),
.BR CH_DISABLE_IND (7),
.BR CH_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR CH_OK_ACK (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for CHI Version 1.
.XX
.[
chi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
