'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CH_OPTMGMT_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:57:58 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:58 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CH_OPTMGMT_REQ 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:58 $" "$Name:  $" "Channel Interface"
.SH NAME
.B CH_OPTMGMT_REQ, ch_optmgmt_req, ch_optmgmt_req_t
\- options management request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive is one
.B M_PROTO
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CH_optmgmt_req {
    ch_ulong ch_primitive;      /* always CH_OPTMGMT_REQ */
    ch_ulong ch_opt_length;     /* length of options */
    ch_ulong ch_opt_offset;     /* offset of options */
    ch_ulong ch_mgmt_flags;     /* option flags */
} CH_optmgmt_req_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Requests that the specified options be managed according to the specified
management flag setting.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive has the following parameters:
.TP
.I ch_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR CH_OPTMGMT_REQ .
.TP
.I ch_opt_length
specifies the length of the options.
.TP
.I ch_opt_offset
specifies the offset, from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block, of the options.
.TP
.I ch_mgmt_flags
specifies the management flags.  See
.IR \*(lqFLAGS\*(rq ,
below.
.SH FLAGS
These mangement flags,
.IR ch_mgmt_flags ,
specified can be a bitwise OR of one of the following values:
.TP
.B CH_SUCCESS
indicates successful operation
.TP
.B CH_FAILURE
indicates unsuccessful operation
.TP
.B CH_SET_OPT
set options
.TP
.B CH_GET_OPT
get options
.TP
.B CH_NEGOTIATE
negotiate options
.TP
.B CH_DEFAULT
default options
.SH ORIGINATOR
Channel Service User.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CH_OPTMGMT_ACK (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for CHI Version 1.
.XX
.[
chi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
