'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CH_OK_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CH_OK_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Channel Interface (CHI)"
.SH NAME
.B CH_OK_ACK, CH_ok_ack, CH_ok_ack_t
\- success acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct CH_ok_ack {
    ch_ulong ch_primitive;      /* always CH_OK_ACK */
    ch_ulong ch_correct_prim;   /* correct primitive */
    ch_ulong ch_state;          /* resulting state */
} CH_ok_ack_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Provides local acknowlegment of receipt and processing of a primitive that
requires local acknowledgment and has no other means of acknowledgment.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I ch_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR CH_OK_ACK .
.TP
.I ch_correct_prim
indicates the primitive that was received and processed correctly.  This field
can be one of the following values:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
ll.
\fBCH_INFO_REQ\fR(7):information request
\fBCH_OPTMGMT_REQ\fR(7):options management request
\fBCH_ATTACH_REQ\fR(7):attach channel request
\fBCH_DETACH_REQ\fR(7):detach channel request
\fBCH_ENABLE_REQ\fR(7):enable channel request
\fBCH_DISABLE_REQ\fR(7):disable channel request
\fBCH_CONNECT_REQ\fR(7):channel connection request
\fBCH_DISCONNECT_REQ\fR(7):channel disconnection request
.TE
.TP
.I ch_state
indicates the resulting state of the channel service provider.  This is the
state to which the correct primitive moves the state machine.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Channel Service Provider.
.SH STATE
This primitive is issued in any state when a local acknowledgment is
outstanding.  The resulting state is the state to which the state machine
moves for the correct primitive as indicated in field
.IR ch_state .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CH_INFO_REQ (7),
.BR CH_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
.BR CH_ATTACH_REQ (7),
.BR CH_DETACH_REQ (7),
.BR CH_ENABLE_REQ (7),
.BR CH_DISABLE_REQ (7),
.BR CH_CONNECT_REQ (7),
.BR CH_DISCONNECT_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for CHI Version 1.
.XX
.[
chi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
