'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: devi.7,v 0.9 2004/01/17 08:01:26 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1997-2001  Brian Bidulock.
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:26 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" $Log: devi.7,v $
.\" Revision 0.9  2004/01/17 08:01:26  brian
.\" - Added files for 0.9 baseline autoconf release.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.8.2.2  2003/07/18 22:35:28  brian
.\" Some reformatting.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.8.2.1  2003/07/18 20:38:43  brian
.\" A lot of minor embellishments.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.8  2002/04/02 08:22:36  brian
.\" Started Linux 2.4 development branch.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7.8.1  2001/12/11 13:16:08  brian
.\" Branched for new development.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7.6.1  2001/02/18 12:11:14  brian
.\" New working branch for next release.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7.4.1  2001/02/18 09:44:48  brian
.\" Added new working branch.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7.2.3  2001/01/15 00:35:28  brian
.\" Updated DEVI man pages.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7.2.2  2001/01/14 23:29:12  brian
.\" Changed copyright notice.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7.2.1  2001/01/14 11:07:53  brian
.\" Changed headers back to GPL.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7  2001/01/09 06:17:46  brian
.\" Added device interface man page.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7.2.1  2001/01/08 09:17:23  brian
.\" Updated man pages somewhat.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7  2000/11/29 02:09:56  brian
.\" Added man pages for interfaces.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DEVI 7 "$Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:26 $" "SS7 Man Page" "Linux STREAMS Programmer's Manual" 
.SH "NAME"
devi \- Signalling System No. 7 Device (DEV) Interface
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <ss7/devi.h>
.B #include <ss7/devi_ioctl.h>
.sp
\fIfd\fB = open("\fI/dev/sdl\fB", \fIflags\fB);
\fIret\fB = ioctl(\fIfd\fB, \fIcmd\fB, ... /* \fIarg\fB */ );
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
This man page describes the STREAMS interface which is used to configure and
exchanged data with an SS7 Device (DEVI) for all SS7 devices conforming to the
\fIOpenSS7\fR Device Interface (DEVI) specification.
.PP
DEVI drivers implement this interface in addition to the \fBsdli\fR(7) or
\fBsdti\fR(7) interface at the driver level.  These are driver specific ioctls
which are used to configure a wide ranges of devices.
.PP
The DEVI interface consists of only a control interface which is utilizes
\fBioctl\fR(2) tranparent calls or an \fBI_STR\fR ioctl from \fBstreamio\fR(2)
from a stream head to the driver.  Devices may also be controlled from the
stream head of a \fBslsi\fR(7) or \fBmtpi\fR(7) stream head using
\fBioctl\fR(2) or \fBI_STR\fR ioctl from \fBstreamio\fR(2).  This later method
uses a pass-along ioctl which passes the device control through the
multiplexor to a specified device. (See \fBslsi\fR(7) and \fBmtpi\fR(7).)

The control interface controls specific
aspects of the device driver which are outside the scope of the SS7 protocol.
These controls are normally used by the SS7 Configuration Daemon \fBss7d\fR(8)
on the driver interface or multiplexor control channel before or after the
protocol stack has been assembled.  This control interface is described below.

IOCTLs are used to affect the operation of the SS7 device.  A common set of
IOCTLs are available for all SS7 devices as follows:
.TP
.B DEV_IOCGIFTYPE, DEV_IOCSIFTYPE
Gets or sets the value of the interface type.  The interface type is the type
of interface to which the stream device is connected (attached).

\fIarg\fR is
a pointer to a \fBdev_ulong\fR which contains one of the following values:
.RS
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
l l s s.
.TH
\fBDEV_TYPE_NONE\fR:T{
There is no device type (default) or the device type is not meaningful.
T}
\fBDEV_TYPE_V35\fR:T{
A V.35 interface.
T}
\fBDEV_TYPE_DS0\fR:T{
A DS0 interface.
T}
\fBDEV_TYPE_DS0A\fR:T{
A DS0A interface.
T}
\fBDEV_TYPE_E1\fR:T{
A (full) E1 interface.
T}
\fBDEV_TYPE_T1\fR:T{
A (full) T1 interface.
T}
\fBDEV_TYPE_J1\fR:T{
A (full) J1 interface.
T}
\fBDEV_TYPE_ATM\fR:T{
An ATM interface.
T}
\fBDEV_TYPE_PACKET\fR:T{
A generic packet interface.
T}
.TE
.RE
.TP
.B DEV_IOCGGRPTYPE, DEV_IOCSGRPTYPE
Gets or sets the value of the interface group type.  The interface group type
is the type of the group of communications channels, to a channel of which the
stream is attached.  Interface groups are only meaningful (or required) for
\fIStyle 2\fR drivers which must be explicitly attached to a channel within
the group.  \fIStyle 1\fR drivers (with implicit attachment at open) should be
specified as \fBDEV_GTYPE_NONE\fR.

\fIarg\fR is a pointer to a \fBdev_ulong\fR which
contains one of the following values:
.RS
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
l l s s.
.TH
\fBDEV_GTYPE_NONE\fR:T{
There is no group type (default) or the group type is not meaningful (i.e.,
there is no group but a single channel).
T}
\fBDEV_GTYPE_T1\fR:T{
A channel of a T1 interface.
T}
\fBDEV_GTYPE_E1\fR:T{
A channel of a E1 interface.
T}
\fBDEV_GTYPE_J1\fR:T{
A channel of a J1 interface.
T}
\fBDEV_GTYPE_ATM\fR:T{
A channel of an ATM interface.
T}
\fBDEV_GTYPE_ETH\fR:T{
A subset of an Ethernet interface.
T}
\fBDEV_GTYPE_IP\fR:T{
A subset of an IP interface.
T}
\fBDEV_GTYPE_UDP\fR:T{
A port of a UDP interface.
T}
\fBDEV_GTYPE_TCP\fR:T{
A port of a TCP interface.
T}
\fBDEV_GTYPE_RTP\fR:T{
A port of an RTP interface.
T}
\fBDEV_GTYPE_SCTP\fR:T{
A port of an SCTP interface.
T}
.TE
.RE
.TP
.B DEV_IOCGIFMODE, DEV_IOCSIFMODE
Gets or sets the interface mode.  Most interfaces can be in one of two modes
depending on the side of the interface to which the device is attached.
Setting this value may have an impact on the valid ranges of other interface
values (such as clocking mode).

\fIarg\fR is a pointer to a \fBdev_ulong\fR which contains one of the
following values:
.RS
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
l l s s.
.TH
\fBDEV_MODE_NONE\fR:T{
The interface is modeless or the mode is unspecified.
T}
\fBDEV_MODE_DSU\fR:T{
Data Service Unit mode.
T}
\fBDEV_MODE_CSU\fR:T{
Control Service Unit mode.
T}
\fBDEV_MODE_DTE\fR:T{
Data Terminal Equipment mode.
T}
\fBDEV_MODE_DCE\fR:T{
Control Terminal Equipment mode.
T}
\fBDEV_MODE_CLIENT\fR:T{
Client mode.
T}
\fBDEV_MODE_SERVER\fR:T{
Server mode.
T}
\fBDEV_MODE_PEER\fR:T{
Peer to peer mode.
T}
\fBDEV_MODE_ECHO\fR:T{
Local echo mode.
T}
\fBDEV_MODE_REM_LB\fR:T{
Remote loopback mode.
T}
\fBDEV_MODE_LOC_LB\fR:T{
Local loopback mode.
T}
\fBDEV_MODE_LB_ECHO\fR:T{
Loopback and echo mode.
T}
\fBDEV_MODE_TEST\fR:T{
Test mode.
T}
.TE
.RE
.TP
.B DEV_IOCGIFCLOCK, DEV_IOCSIFCLOCK
Get or set the interface clocking.  Most interfaces can be in one of several
clocking modes.  Not all clocking modes apply to all interface types.
Different interface and interface group types may have different default
values regarding clock modes.

\fIarg\fR is a pointer to a \fBdev_ulong\fR which contains
one of the following values:
.RS
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
l l s s.
.TH
\fBDEV_CLOCK_NONE\fR:T{
No interface clock.
T}
\fBDEV_CLOCK_INT\fR:T{
Internal clocking.
T}
\fBDEV_CLOCK_EXT\fR:T{
External clocking.
T}
\fBDEV_CLOCK_LOOP\fR:T{
Loop clocking.
T}
\fBDEV_CLOCK_MASTER\fR:T{
Master clock.
T}
\fBDEV_CLOCK_SLAVE\fR:T{
Slave.
T}
\fBDEV_CLOCK_DPLL\fR:T{
Digital Phase Locked Loop.
T}
\fBDEV_CLOCK_ABR\fR:T{
Average Bit Rate.
T}
\fBDEV_CLOCK_SHAPER\fR:T{
Traffic shaped to an effective clock rate.
T}
.TE
.RE
.TP
.B DEV_IOCGIFCODING, DEV_IOCSIFCODING
Gets or sets the interface bit coding.  Most interfaces can apply one of
several bit line coding.  Some interface and interface group types do not
permit bit codings to be changed.  Not all bit codings are permitted on all
interface types.  Interface types which have implicit bit codings should be
set to either the appropriate coding or to \fBDEV_CODING_NONE\fR.

\fIarg\fR is a pointer to a \fBdev_uong\fR which
contains one of the following values:
.RS
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
l l s s.
.TH
\fBDEV_CODING_NONE\fR:T{
No coding.  Coding unspecified.
T}
\fBDEV_CODING_NRZ\fR:T{
Non-Return to Zero
T}
\fBDEV_CODING_NRZI\fR:T{
Non-Return to Zero Inverted
T}
\fBDEV_CODING_AMI\fR:T{
AMI coding (especially applicable to T1/E1/J1)
T}
\fBDEV_CODING_B6ZS\fR:T{
B6ZS coding (especially applicable to T1/E1/J1)
T}
\fBDEV_CODING_B8ZS\fR:T{
B8ZS coding (especially applicable to T1/E1/J1)
T}
\fBDEV_CODING_ESF\fR:T{
Extended Super Frame coding (especially applicable to T1/E1/J1)
T}
\fBDEV_CODING_AAL1\fR:T{
ATM Adaptation Layer 1 coding
T}
\fBDEV_CODING_AAL2\fR:T{
ATM Adaptation Layer 2 coding
T}
\fBDEV_CODING_AAL5\fR:T{
ATM Adaptation Layer 5 coding
T}
.TE
.RE
.TP
.B DEV_IOCGIFLEADS, DEV_IOCSIFLEADS, DEV_IOCCIFLEADS
Gets or sets one or more leads according to a bitmask.  The interface lead is
only applicable to interface types which support these leads.  This control
permits the configuration manager or user to control interface leads which are
outside the scope of the SS7 protocol.

\fIarg\fR is a
point to a bit mask of leads to set or clear and is a bitwise OR of one of the
following bitmasks:
.RS
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
l l s s.
.TH
\fBDEV_LEAD_DTR\fR:T{
Data-Terminal-Ready
T}
\fBDEV_LEAD_RTS\fR:T{
Request-To-Send
T}
\fBDEV_LEAD_DCD\fR:T{
Data-Carrier-Detect
T}
\fBDEV_LEAD_CTS\fR:T{
Clear-To-Send
T}
\fBDEV_LEAD_DSR\fR:T{
Data-Set-Ready
T}
.TE
.RE
.TP
.B DEV_IOCCDISCTX, DEV_IOCCCONNTX
Diconnects or connects the transmit path.  This is specifically to assist with
Q.781 conformance testing of Level 2 implementations.  One of the conformance
tests in the suite requires that the Tx path be disconnected and reconnected
at several points in the test.  This control is provided to peform that
function in an automated fashion rather than having to physically disconnect
the link.
.TP
.B Private IOCTLs
Specific device driver implementations may require additional IOCTLs which are
used to configure that particular device.  For more information on a
particular device IOCTLs, see the appropriate man page for the device.

.SH "ERROR HANDLING"
.PP
When an IOCTL is successful, it returns 0.  When it is unsuccessful, it
returns -1 and \fIerrno\fR is appropriately set.  When unsuccessful, no
changes will have been made to device parameters or variables.
.SS "Errors"
.PP
Any of the errors which are returned by \fBioctl\fR(2) or \fBstreamio\fR(2)
\fBI_STR\fR can be returned.  In addition, the following errors may be
returned as a result of the failure of the control operation:
.TP 12
.RB [ EOPNOTSUPP ]
The operation is not supported.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The value which \fIarg\fR points to is not within the valid range.
.TP
.RB [ EFAULT ]
The point \fIarg\fR points outside of the valid address space of the calling
user.
.TP
.RB [ EPERM ]
The calling process does not have the permission or the capabilities to
perform the requested operation.

\".SH "IMPLEMENTATIONS"

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBlmi\fR(7),
\fBsdli\fR(7),
\fBsdti\fR(7),
\fBioctl\fR(2),
\fBstreamio\fR(2),
\fBss7d\fR(8)

.SH "CAVEATS"
.PP
Not all IOCTLs presented here are supported by all DEVI device drivers.  Some
values of some members are not applicable to all device drivers.  Some device
drivers will return an error if an attempt is made to change a value.

\".SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
\".SH "BUGS"
\".SH "RESTRICTIONS"

.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
This STREAMS interface for SS7 is an original part of the \fIOpenSS7\fR
package.
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
