'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_CONNECT_RES.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_CONNECT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_CONNECT_RES (dl_connect_res_t)
\- directs the DLS provider to accept a connect request from a remote
(calling) DLS user on adesignated stream.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_CONNECT_RES
directs the DLS provider to accept a connect request from a remote (calling)
DLS user on adesignated stream.  The DLS user may accept the connection on the
same stream where the connect indication arrived, or on a different stream
that has been previously bound.  The response contains the correlation number
from the corresponding
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND ,
selected quality of service parameters, and an indication of the stream on
which to accept the connection.
.PP
After issuing this primitive, the DLS user may immediately begin
transferring data using the
.BR DL_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive.  If the DLS provider receives one or more
.BR DL_DATA_REQ (7)
primitives from the local DLS user before it has completed connection
establishment, however, it must queue the data transfer requests internally
until the connection is successfully established.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block containing the structure shown below.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_correlation;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_resp_token;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_qos_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_qos_offset;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_growth;
} dl_connect_res_t;
\fC\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_CONNECT_RES .
.TP
.I dl_correlation
conveys the correlation number that was received with the
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7)
associated with the connection request.  The DLS provider will use the
correlation number to identify the connect indication to which the DLS user
is responding.
.TP
.I dl_resp_token
if non-zero, conveys the token associated with the responding stream on
which the DLS provider is to establish the connection; this stream must
be in the state
.BR DL_IDLE .
The token value for a stream can be obtained by issuing a
.BR DL_TOKEN_REQ (7)
on that stream.  If the DLS user is accepting the connection on the stream
where the connect indication arrived, this value must be zero.  See
.I \*(lqConnection Establishment,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7),
for a description of the connection response
model.
.TP
.I dl_qos_length
conveys the length of the quality of service parameter values selected by
the called DLS user.  The selected QOS values are conveyed in the appropriate
structure as defined in
.I \*(lqQOS Data Structures,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7).
A full specification of these QOS parameters and rules for negotiating their
values is presented in
.I \*(lqQuality of Data Link Service,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7).
If the DLS user does not care which value is selected for a particular QOS
parameter, the value
.B DL_QOS_DONT_CARE
may be specified.  If the DLS user does not care which values are selected for
all QOS parameters, this field may be set to zero.
.TP
.I dl_qos_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block where the quality of service parameters begin.
.TP
.I dl_growth
defines a growth field for future enhancements to this primitive.  Its
value must be set to zero.
.SH STATE
The primitive is valid in state
.BR DL_INCON_PENDING .
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is
.BR DL_CONN_RES_PENDING .
.SH RESPONSE
If the connect response is successful,
.BR DL_OK_ACK (7)
is sent to the DLS user.  If no outstanding connect indications remain, the
resulting state for the current stream is
.BR DL_IDLE ;
otherwise it remains
.BR DL_INCON_PENDING .
For the responding stream (designated by the parameter
.IR dl_resp_token ),
the resulting state is
.BR DL_DATAXFER .
If the current stream and responding stream are the same, the resulting state
of that stream is
.BR DL_DATAXFER .
These streams may only be the same when the response corresponds to the only
outstanding connect indication.  If the request fails,
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned on the stream where the
.B DL_CONNECT_RES
primitive was received, and the resulting state of that stream and the
responding stream is unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B DL_ACCESS
The DLS user did not have proper permission to use the responding
stream.
.TP
.B DL_BADCORR
The correlation number specified in this primitive did not correspond to
apending connect indication.
.TP
.B DL_BADTOKEN
The token for the responding stream was not associated with a currently open
stream.
.TP
.B DL_BADQOSPARAM
The quality of service parameters contained invalid values.
.TP
.B DL_BADQOSTYPE
The quality of service structure type was not supported by the DLS provider.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state, or the responding
stream was not in a valid state for establishing aconnection.
.TP
.B DL_PENDING
Current stream and responding stream is the same and there is more than one
outstanding connect indication.
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in
the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
