'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_DISCONNECT_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/04/17 23:05:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_DISCONNECT_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:13 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS"
.SH NAME
.B DL_DISCONNECT_REQ (dl_disconnect_req_t)
\- requests the DLS provider to disconnect an active data link connection or
one that was in the process of activation, either outgoing or incoming, as a
result of an earlier
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7)
or
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ (7).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_DISCONNECT_REQ
requests the DLS provider to disconnect an active data link connection or one
that was in the process of activation, either outgoing or incoming, as a
result of an earlier
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7)
or
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ (7).
If an incoming
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7)
is being refused, the correlation number associated with that connect
indication must be supplied.  The message indicates the reason for the
disconnect.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block containing the structure shown below.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_reason;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_correlation;
} dl_disconnect_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_DISCONNECT_REQ .
.TP
.I dl_reason
conveys the reason for the disconnect:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_DISC_NORMAL_CONDITION
normal release of a data link connection
.TP
.B DL_DISC_ABNORMAL_CONDITION
abnormal release of a data link connection
.TP
.B DL_CONREJ_PERMANENT_COND
a permanent condition caused the rejection of a connect request
.TP
.B DL_CONREJ_TRANSIENT_COND
a transient condition caused the rejection of a connect request
.TP
.B DL_DISC_UNSPECIFIED
reason unspecified.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_correlation
if non-zero, conveys the correlation number that was contained in the
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7)
being rejected (see
.I \*(lqMulti-threaded Connection Establishment,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7)).
This value permits the DLS provider to associate the primitive with the proper
.BR DL_CONNECT_IND (7)
when rejecting an incoming connection.  If the disconnect request is releasing
a connection that is already established, or is aborting a previously sent
.BR DL_CONNECT_REQ (7),
the value of
.I dl_correlation
should be zero.
.SH STATE
The message is valid in any of the states
.BR DL_DATAXFER ,
.BR DL_INCON_PENDING ,
.BR DL_OUTCON_PENDING ,
.BR DL_PROV_RESET_PENDING ,
.BR DL_USER_RESET_PENDING .
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is one of the disconnect pending states, as defined in
.I \*(lqAllowable Sequence of DLPI Primitives,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7).
.SH RESPONSE
If the disconnect is successful,
.BR DL_OK_ACK (7)
is sent to the DLS user resulting in state
.BR DL_IDLE .
.PP
If the request fails, message
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned, and the resulting state is unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B DL_BADCORR
The correlation number specified in this primitive did not correspond to
apending connect indication.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in
the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR4.
.[
svr4
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
