'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_INFO_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_INFO_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_INFO_ACK (dl_info_ack_t)
\- this message is sent in response to
.BR DL_INFO_REQ (7);
it conveys information about the DLPI stream to the DLS user.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block, which contains the following structure.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t dl_max_sdu;
    t_uscalar_t dl_min_sdu;
    t_uscalar_t dl_addr_length;
    t_uscalar_t dl_mac_type;
    t_uscalar_t dl_reserved;
    t_uscalar_t dl_current_state;
    t_scalar_t  dl_sap_length;
    t_uscalar_t dl_service_mode;
    t_uscalar_t dl_qos_length;
    t_uscalar_t dl_qos_offset;
    t_uscalar_t dl_qos_range_length;
    t_uscalar_t dl_qos_range_offset;
    t_uscalar_t dl_provider_style;
    t_uscalar_t dl_addr_offset;
    t_uscalar_t dl_version;
    t_uscalar_t dl_brdcst_addr_length;
    t_uscalar_t dl_brdcst_addr_offset;
    t_uscalar_t dl_growth;
} dl_info_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_INFO_ACK .
.TP
.I dl_max_sdu
conveys the maximum number of bytes that may be transmitted in a DLSDU.  This
value must be a positive integer that is greater than or equal to the value of
.IR dl_min_sdu .
.TP
.I dl_min_sdu
conveys the minimum number of bytes that may be transmitted in a DLSDU.  The
value is never less than one.
.TP
.I dl_addr_length
conveys the length, in bytes, of the provider's DLSAP address.  In the case
of ahierarchical subsequent bind, the length returned is the total
length, that is, Physical address + SAP +subsequent address length.
.TP
.I dl_mac_type
conveys the type of medium supported by this DLPI stream.  Possible
values include:
.RS
.TP 12
.B DL_CSMACD
The medium is Carrier Sense Multiple Access with Collision Detection (ISO
8802/3).
.TP
.B DL_TPB
The medium is Token-Passing Bus (ISO 8802/4).
.TP
.B DL_TPR
The medium is Token-Passing Ring (ISO 8802/5).
.TP
.B DL_METRO
The medium is Metro Net (ISO 8802/6).
.TP
.B DL_ETHER
The medium is Ethernet Bus.
.TP
.B DL_HDLC
The medium is a bit synchronous communication line.
.TP
.B DL_CHAR
The medium is a character synchronous communication line (for example,
BISYNC).
.TP
.B DL_CTCA
The medium is a channel-to-channel adapter.
.TP
.B DL_FDDI
The medium is a Fiber Distributed Data Interface.
.TP
.B DL_FC
The medium is Fiber Channel.
.TP
.B DL_ATM
The medium is Asynchronous Transfer Mode.
.TP
.B DL_IPATM
The medium is Internet IP over Asynchronous Transfer Mode, RFC 1577.
.TP
.B DL_X25
The medium is X.25 LAPB.
.TP
.B DL_IPX25
The medium is Internet IP over X.25, RFC 1356.
.TP
.B DL_ISDN
The medium is ISDN.
.TP
.B DL_HIPPI
The medium is High Performance Parallel Interface.
.TP
.B DL_100VG
The medium is 100 Based VG Ethernet.
.TP
.B DL_100VGTPR
The medium is 100 Based VG Token Ring.
.TP
.B DL_ETH_CSMA
The medium is capable of both ISO 8802/3 and Ethernet.
.TP
.B DL_100BT
The medium is 100 Base T Ethernet.
.TP
.B DL_FRAME
The medium is Frame Relay LAPF.
.TP
.B DL_MPFRAME
The medium is Multi-Protocol over Frame Relay encapsulation, RFC
1490.
.TP
.B DL_ASYNC
The medium is a bit asynchronous communication line.
.TP
.B DL_LOOP
The medium is a software loopback.
.TP
.B DL_OTHER
Any other medium that is not listed above.
.I dl_mac_type
values above 0x80000000 are available for private or experimental use and will
not be defined by this Specification.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_reserved
is a reserved field whose value must be set to zero.
.TP
.I dl_current_state
conveys the state of the DLPI interface for the stream when the DLS provider
issued this acknowledgement.  See
.I \*(lqAllowable Sequence of DLPI Primitives,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7),
for a list of DLPI states and an explanation of each.
.TP
.I dl_sap_length
indicates the current length of the SAP component of the DLSAP address.  It
may have a negative, zero or positive value.  A positive value indicates
the ordering of the SAP and PHYSICAL component within the DLSAP address as SAP
component followed by PHYSICAL component.  A negative value indicates
PHYSICAL followed by the SAP.  A zero value indicates that no SAP has yet been
bound.  The absolute value of the
.I dl_sap_length
provides the length of the SAP component within the DLSAP address.
.TP
.I dl_service_mode
if returned before the
.BR DL_BIND_REQ (7)
is processed, this conveys which service modes (
connection-mode,connectionless-mode or acknowledged connectionless-mode, or
any comibination of these modes) the DLS provider can support.  It contains a
bit-mask specifying one or more than one of the following values:
.RS
.TP 12
.B DL_CODLS
connection-oriented data link service
.TP
.B DL_CLDLS
connectionless data link service
.TP
.B DL_ACLDLS
acknowledged connectionless data link service.
.PP
Once a specific service mode has been bound to the stream, this field returns
that specific service mode.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_qos_length
conveys the length, in bytes, of the negotiated/selected values of the
quality of service (QOS) parameters.  Section 5, Quality of Data Link
Service , describes quality of service and its associated parameters
completely.  For connection-mode service, the returned values are those
agreed during negotiation.  For connectionless-mode service, the values are
those currently selected by the DLS user.  If quality of service has not
yet been negotiated, default values will be returned; these values correspond
to those that will be applied by the DLS provider on a connect request in
connection-mode service, or those that will be applied to each data
unit transmission in connectionless-mode service.  If the DLS provider
supports both connection-mode and connectionless-mode services but the DLS
user has not yet bound a specific service mode, the DLS provider
may return either connection-mode or connectionless-mode QOS
parameter values.
.RS
.PP
The QOS values are conveyed in the structures defined in
.I \*(lqQOS Data Structures,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7).
For any parameter the DLS provider does not support or cannot
determine, the corresponding entry will be set to
.BR DL_UNKNOWN .
If the DLS provider does not support any QOS parameters, this length field
will be set to zero.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_qos_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PCPROTO
block where the current quality of service parameters begin.
.TP
.I dl_qos_range_length
conveys the length, in bytes, of the available range of QOS parameter
values supported by the DLS provider.  Forconnection-mode
service, this is the range available to the calling DLS user in a connect
request.  Forconnectionless-mode, this is the range available for each data
unit transmission.  If the DLS provider supports both
connection-mode and connectionless-mode services but the DLS user has not
yet bound a specific service mode, the DLS provider may return either
connection-mode or connectionless-mode QOS parameter values.
.RS
.PP
The range of available QOS values is conveyed in the structures defined in
.I \*(lqQOS Data Structures,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7).
For any parameter the DLS provider does not support or cannot determine, the
corresponding entry will be set
to
.BR DL_UNKNOWN .
If the DLS provider does not support any QOS parameters, this length field
will be set to zero.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_qos_range_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PCPROTO
block where the available range of quality of service parameters begins.
.TP
.I dl_provider_style
conveys the style of DLS provider associated with the DLPI stream (see
.I \*(lqPhysical Attachment Identification,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7)).
The following provider classes are defined:
.RS
.TP 12
.B DL_STYLE1
The PPA is implicitly attached to the DLPI stream by opening the
appropriate major/minor device number.
.TP
.B DL_STYLE2
The DLS user must explicitly attach a PPA to the DLPI stream using
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ (7).
.PP
DLS users implemented in a protocol-independent manner must access this
parameter to determine whether the DLS attach service must be invoked
explicitly.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_addr_offset
conveys the offset of the address that is bound to the associated
stream.  If the DLS user issues a
.BR DL_INFO_REQ (7)
prior to binding a DLSAP, the value of
.I dl_addr_len
will be 0 and consequently indicate that there has been no address bound.
.TP
.I dl_version
indicates the current version of the dlpi that is supported.
.TP
.I dl_brdcst_addr_length
indicates the length of the physical broadcast address.
.TP
.I dl_brdcst_addr_offset
indicates the offset of the physical broadcast address from the beginning of
the
.B M_PCPROTO
block.
.TP
.I dl_growth
conveys a growth field for future use.  The value of this field will be zero.
.SH STATE
The message is valid in any state in response to a
.BR DL_INFO_REQ .
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is unchanged.
.SH NOTES
Readers should note that the list of data links supported by the interface
may be augmented and is published on the World-Wide Web in U019 at
http://www.xopen.org (under Sales and Ordering).  This Corrigendum will
contain relevant additional information such as recognised
implementors' agreements/guidelines for common data link providers.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
