'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_INFO_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/05/12 10:14:57 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/05/12 10:14:57 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_INFO_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/05/12 10:14:57 $" "$Name:  $" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_INFO_REQ (dl_info_req_t)
\- request information of the DLS provider about the DLPI stream.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block, which contains the following structure:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
} dl_info_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_INFO_REQ
requests information of the DLS provider about the DLPI stream.  This
information includes a set of provider-specific parameters, as well as the
current state of the interface.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_INFO_REQ .
.SH STATE
The message is valid in any state in which a local acknowledgement is not
pending, as described in
.I \*(lqAllowable Sequence of DLPI Primitives,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7).
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is unchanged.
.SH RESPONSE
The DLS provider responds to the information request with a
.BR DL_INFO_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
