'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_REPLY_UPDATE_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:14 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:14 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DL_REPLY_UPDATE_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:14  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_REPLY_UPDATE_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_REPLY_UPDATE_REQ (dl_reply_update_req_t)
\- conveys a DLSDU to the DLS Provider from the DLS User to be held by the
DLS Provider and sent out at a later time when requested to do so by the
peer DLS Provider.
.SH SYNOPSIS
Consists of one 
.B M_PROTO
message block containing the structure shown below, followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
blocks.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_correlation;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_src_addr_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_src_addr_offset;
} dl_reply_update_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_REPLY_UPDATE_REQ .
.TP
.I dl_correlation
conveys context specific information to be returned in the
.BR DL_REPLY_UPDATE_STATUS_IND (7)
primitive to allow the DLS User correlate the status to the appropriate
previous request.
.TP
.I dl_src_addr_length
conveys the length of the DLSAP address of the source DLS User.
.TP
.I dl_src_addr_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block where the source DLSAP address begins.
.SH STATE
This primitive is valid in state
.BR DL_IDLE .
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is unchanged.
.SH RESPONSE
If the request is erroneous, a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned with the appropriate error code.  Otherwise, a
.BR DL_REPLY_UPDATE_STATUS_IND (7)
is returned, which indicates the success or failure of the
.BR DL_REPLY_UPDATE_REQ .
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B DL_BADDATA
The amount of data in the DLSDU exceeded the DLS Provider's DLSDU limit.
.TP
.B DL_NOTSUPPORTED
Primitive is known, but not supported.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
