'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_TEST_RES.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/05/12 10:14:58 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/05/12 10:14:58 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_TEST_RES 7 "$Date: 2004/05/12 10:14:58 $" "$Name:  $" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_TEST_RES (dl_test_res_t)
\- conveys the TEST response DLSDU from the DLS User to the DLS Provider in
response to a
.BR DL_TEST_IND .
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block, followed by zero or more
.B M_DATA
blocks containing zero or more bytes of data.  The message structure is
as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_flag;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_dest_addr_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_dest_addr_offset;
} dl_test_res_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_TEST_RES .
.TP
.I dl_flag
indicates the flag values for the response as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_POLL_FINAL
indicates if the poll/final bit is set.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_dest_addr_length
conveys the length of the DLSAP address of the destination DLS User.  If the
destination user is implemented using DLPI, this address is the full DLSAP
address returned on the
.BR DL_BIND_ACK (7).
.TP
.I dl_dest_addr_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block where the destination DLSAP address begins.
.SH STATE
The message is valid in states
.B DL_IDLE
and
.BR DL_DATAXFER .
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is unchanged.
.SH RESPONSE
On an invalid TEST response request, a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is issued to the usr.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B DL_BADADDR
The DLSAP address information was invalid or was in an incorrect
format.
.TP
.B DL_BADDATA
The amount of data exceeded the DLS provider's limit for TEST messages.
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A System error has occurred and the Linux System error is indicated in
the DL_ERR OR_ACK.
.TP
.B DL_NOTSUPPORTED
Primitive is known but not supported by the DLS Provider
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state
.TP
.B DL_TESTAUTO
Previous bind request specified automatic handling of TEST responses.
.TP
.B DL_UNSUPPORTED
Requested service not supplied by provider.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
