'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_TOKEN_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/05/12 10:14:58 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/05/12 10:14:58 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_TOKEN_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/05/12 10:14:58 $" "$Name:  $" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_TOKEN_REQ (dl_token_req_t)
\- requests that a connection response token  be assigned to the stream and
returned to the DLS user.  This token  can  be supplied in the
.BR DL_CONNECT_RES (7)
primitive to indicate the stream on which a connection will be established.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block, which contains the following structure.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
} dl_token_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_TOKEN_REQ .
.SH STATE
The  message is valid in any state in which a local acknowledgement is  not
pending,  as  described  in  [2]Allowable Sequence of DLPI Primitives.
.SH RESPONSE
The  DLS  provider  responds  to  the  information  request  with a
.BR DL_TOKEN_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
