'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_UNBIND_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:58:00 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:00 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_UNBIND_REQ 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:00 $" "$Name:  $" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_UNBIND_REQ (dl_unbind_req_t)
\- requests the DLS provider to unbind the DLSAP that had been bound by a
previous
.BR DL_BIND_REQ (7)
from this stream.  If one or more DLSAPs were bound to the
stream using a
.BR DL_SUBS_BIND_REQ (7),
and have not been unbound using
a
.BR DL_SUBS_UNBIND_REQ(7),
the
.BR DL_UNBIND_REQ (7)
will unbind all the subesquent DLSAPs for that stream along with the DLSAP
bound using the previous
.BR DL_BIND_REQ (7).
.PP
At the successful completion of the request, the DLS user may issue a new
.BR DL_BIND_REQ (7)
for a potentially new DLSAP.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block, which contains the following structure.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
} dl_unbind_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_UNBIND_REQ .
.SH STATE
The message is valid in state
.BR DL_IDLE .
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is
.BR DL_UNBIND_PENDING .
.SH RESPONSE
If the unbind request is successful,
.BR DL_OK_ACK (7)
is sent to the DLS user resulting in state
.BR DL_UNBOUND .
If the request fails, message
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned and the resulting state is unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in
the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
