'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_UNITDATA_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:32 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:32 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_UNITDATA_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_UNITDATA_IND (dl_unitdata_ind_t)
\- conveys one DLSDU from the DLS provider to the DLS user.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block containing the structure shown below, followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
blocks containing at least one byte of data.  The amount of user data that may
be transferred in a single DLSDU is limited.  This limit is conveyed by the
parameter
.I dl_max_sdu
in the
.BR DL_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_dest_addr_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_dest_addr_offset;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_src_addr_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_src_addr_offset;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_group_address;
} dl_unitdata_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_UNITDATA_IND .
.TP
.I dl_dest_addr_length
conveys the length of the address of the DLSAP where this
.B DL_UNITDATA_IND
is intended to be delivered.
.TP
.I dl_dest_addr_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block where the destination DLSAP address begins.
.TP
.I dl_src_addr_length
conveys the length of the DLSAP address of the sending DLS user.
.TP
.I dl_src_addr_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block where the source DLSAP address begins.
.TP
.I dl_group_address
is set by the DLS Provider upon receiving and passing upstream a data message
when the destination address of the data message is a multicast or broadcast
address.
.SH STATE
The message is valid in state
.BR DL_IDLE .
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is unchanged.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
