'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: LMI_OPTMGMT_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/07/21 20:15:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/07/21 20:15:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: LMI_OPTMGMT_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/07/21 20:15:12  brian
.\" - added documentation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH LMI_OPTMGMT_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Local Management Interface (LMI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B LMI_OPTMGMT_ACK, lmi_optmgmt_ack_t
\- options management acknowledgement primitive
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The option management acknowledgement service primitive consists of one
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    lmi_long lmi_primitive;
    lmi_ulong lmi_opt_length;
    lmi_ulong lmi_opt_offset;
    lmi_ulong lmi_mgmt_flags;
} lmi_optmgmt_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This LMS provider originated primitive is issued by the LMS provider upon
successful completion of the options management service.  It indicates the
outcome of the options management operation requested by the LMS user in a
.BR LMI_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
The option management acknowledgement service primitive contains the following
parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I lmi_primitive
Indicates the service primitive type.  Always
.BR LMI_OPTMGMT_ACK .
.TP
.I lmi_opt_length
Indicates the length of the returned options.
.TP
.I lmi_opt_offset
Indicates the offset of the returned options from the start of the
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block.
.TP
.I lmi_mgmt_flags
Indicates the returned management flags.  These flags indicate the overall
success of the options management service.  This field can assume one of
the following values:
.sp
.RS
.TP \w'\fBLMI_PARTSUCCESS\fR\(em'u
.B LMI_SUCCESS
The LMS provider succeeded in negotiating or returning all of the
options specified by the LMS user in the
.BR LMI_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive.
.TP
.B LMI_FAILURE
The LMS provider failed to negotiate one or more of the options
specified by the LMS user.
.TP
.B LMI_PARTSUCCESS
The LMS provider negotiated a value of lower quality for one or more
of the options specified by the LMS user.
.TP
.B LMI_READONLY
The LMS provider failed to negotiate one ore more of the options
specified by the LMS user because the option is treated as read-only
by the LMS provider.
.TP
.B LMI_NOTSUPPORT
The LMS provider failed to recognize one or more of the options
specified by the LMS user.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SS State
This primitive is issued by the LMS provider in direct response to an
.BR LMI_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SS "New State"
The new state remains unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
This primitive is issued by the LMS Provider.
.\"
.\"
.SS Rules
The LMS provider follows the following rules when processing option management
service requests:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
When the
.I lmi_mgmt_flags
field in the
.BR LMI_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive is set to
.BR LMI_NEGOTIATE ,
the LMS provider will attempt to negotiate a value for each of the options
specified in the request.
.IP \(em
When the flags are
.BR LMI_DEFAULT ,
the LMS provider will return the default values of the specified options, or
the default values of all options known to the LMS provider if no options were
specified.
.IP \(em
When the flags are
.BR LMI_CURRENT ,
the LMS provider will return the current values of the specified options, or
all options.
.IP \(em
When the flags are
.BR LMI_CHECK ,
the LMS provider will attempt to negotiate a value for each of the options
specified in the request and return the resulg of the negotiation, but will
not affect the current value of the option.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
The Local Management Interface
.[
lmi
.]
is not subject to conformance.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.BR <ss7/lmi.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR LMI_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
.BR lmi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERIONS
This manpage was written for
.BR @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ .
The Local Management Interface (LMI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared on
.BR strss7-0.8.2 .
This is Version 1 of the LMI interface.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
lmi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

