'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: LMI_ERROR_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-29 07:10:25 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:25 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: LMI_ERROR_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-29 07:10:25  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/07/21 20:15:11  brian
.\" - added documentation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH LMI_ERROR_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Local Management Interface (LMI)"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B LMI_ERROR_IND, lmi_error_ind_t
\- error indication primitive
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
The error indication service primitive consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block,
structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    lmi_long lmi_primitive;
    lmi_ulong lmi_errno;
    lmi_ulong lmi_reason;
    lmi_ulong lmi_state;
} lmi_error_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This LMS provider originated service primitive is issued by the LMS provider
when it detects and asynchronous error event.  The service primitive is
applicable to all styles of PPA.
.\"
.\"
.SS Parameters
The error indication service primitive contains the following parameters:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I lmi_primitive
Indicates the service primitive type.  Always
.BR LMI_ERROR_IND .
.TP
.I lmi_errno
Indicates the LMI error number describing the error.  This field can have one
of the following values:
.sp
.RS
.TP \w'\fBLMI_DISABLE_PENDING\fR\(em'u
.B LMI_UNSPEC
Unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B LMI_BADADDRESS
Address was invalid.
.TP
.B LMI_BADADDRTYPE
Invalid address type.
.TP
.B LMI_BADDIAL
(Not used.)
.TP
.B LMI_BADDIALTYPE
(Not used.)
.TP
.B LMI_BADDISPOSAL
Invalid disposal parameter.
.TP
.B LMI_BADFRAME
Defective SDU received.
.TP
.B LMI_BADPPA
Invalid PPA identifier.
.TP
.B LMI_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.
.TP
.B LMI_DISC
Disconnected.
.TP
.B LMI_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.
.TP
.B LMI_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.
.TP
.B LMI_INITFAILED
Link initialization failed.
.TP
.B LMI_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.
.TP
.B LMI_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from invalid state.
.TP
.B LMI_PROTOSHORT
.BR M_PROTO (9)
block too short.
.TP
.B LMI_SYSERR
UNIX system error.
.TP
.B LMI_WRITEFAIL
Unitdata request failed.
.TP
.B LMI_CRCERR
CRC or FCS error.
.TP
.B LMI_DLE_EOT
DLE EOT detected.
.TP
.B LMI_FORMAT
Format error detected.
.TP
.B LMI_HDLC_ABORT
Aborted frame detected.
.TP
.B LMI_OVERRUN
Input overrun.
.TP
.B LMI_TOOSHORT
Frame too short.
.TP
.B LMI_INCOMPLETE
Partial frame received.
.TP
.B LMI_BUSY
Telephone was busy.
.TP
.B LMI_NOANSWER
Connection went unanswered.
.TP
.B LMI_CALLREJECT
Connection rejected.
.TP
.B LMI_HDLC_IDLE
HDLC line went idle.
.TP
.B LMI_HDLC_NOTIDLE
HDLC link no longer idle.
.TP
.B LMI_QUIESCENT
Line being reassigned.
.TP
.B LMI_RESUMED
Line has been reassigned.
.TP
.B LMI_DSRTIMEOUT
Did not see DSR in time.
.TP
.B LMI_LAN_COLLISIONS
LAN excessive collisions.
.TP
.B LMI_LAN_REFUSED
LAN message refused.
.TP
.B LMI_LAN_NOSTATION
LAN no such station.
.TP
.B LMI_LOSTCTS
Lost Clear to Send signal.
.TP
.B LMI_DEVERR
Start of device-specific error codes.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I lmi_reason
Indicates the reason for failure.  This field is protocol-specific.  When
the
.I lmi_errno
field is
.BR LMI_SYSERR ,
the
.I lmi_reason
field is the UNIX
error number as described in
.BR errno (3).
.TP
.I lmi_state
Indicates the state of the LMS provider at the time that the primitive was
issued.  This field can have one of the following values:
.sp
.RS
.TP \w'\fBLMI_DISABLE_PENDING\fR\(em'u
.B LMI_UNATTACHED
No PPA attached, awaiting
.BR LMI_ATTACH_REQ (7).
.PD 0
.TP
.B LMI_ATTACH_PENDING
Waiting for attach.
.TP
.B LMI_UNUSABLE
Device cannot be used, STREAM in hung state.
.TP
.B LMI_DISABLED
PPA attached, awaiting
.BR LMI_ENABLE_REQ (7).
.TP
.B LMI_ENABLE_PENDING
Waiting to send
.BR LMI_ENABLE_CON (7).
.TP
.B LMI_ENABLED
Ready for use, awaiting primitive exchange.
.TP
.B LMI_DISABLE_PENDING
Waiting to send
.BR LMI_DISABLE_CON (7).
.TP
.B LMI_DETACH_PENDING
Waiting for detach.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SS State
This primitive can be issued in any state for which a local acknowledgement is
not pending.  The LMS provider state at the time that the primitive was issued
is indicated in the primitive.
.\"
.\"
.SS "New State"
The new state remains unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SS Modes
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.\"
.\"
.SS Originator
This primitive is issued by the LMS Provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
The Local Management Interface
.[
lmi
.]
is not subject to conformance.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.BR <ss7/lmi.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lmi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERIONS
This manpage was written for
.BR @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ .
The Local Management Interface (LMI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared on
.BR strss7-0.8.2 .
This is Version 1 of the LMI interface.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
lmi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

