'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MG_ACTION_CON.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:58:01 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:01 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MG_ACTION_CON 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:01 $" "$Name:  $" "Media Gateway Interface"
.SH NAME
.B MG_ACTION_CON, MG_action_con, MG_action_con_t
\- action confirmation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive is one
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by zero or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks.  The
.B M_PROTO
message block is structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MG_action_con {
    ulong mg_primitive;         /* always MG_ACTION_CON */
    ulong mg_action;            /* confirmed action */
    ulong mg_se_id;             /* session id */
    ulong mg_tp_id;             /* termination id for action confirmed */
    ulong mg_action_id;         /* action identifier */
} MG_action_con_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DECRIPTION
Confirms that the requested action has begun.
.BR MG_ACTION_REQ (7)
which have the
.B MG_MORE_DATA
flag set will not be confirmed until the last
.BR MG_ACTION_REQ (7)
has been issued by the MG user. The end of restricted duration actions will be
indicated with
.BR MG_ACTION_IND (7).
.PP
The optional
.B M_DATA
message blocks contain information returned as part of the invocation of the
action.  This may be structured data or media stream data depending on the
specific action.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive has the following parameters:
.TP
.I mg_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MG_ACTION_CON .
.TP
.I mg_action
The action number.
.TP
.I mg_se_id
The session id of the communications session within which the action is
confirmed.
.TP
.I mg_tp_id
The termination id for the termination point to which the action is confirmed.
.TP
.I mg_action_id
The unique action identifier, used to distinguish multiple parallel actions
with the same action number.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Media gateway.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MG_ACTION_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MGI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mgi
.]
.[
rfc3435
.]
.[
h248.1
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
