'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MG_DATA_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/04/17 23:05:16 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:16 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MG_DATA_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:16 $" "$Name:  $" "Media Gateway Interface"
.SH NAME
.B MG_DATA_REQ, MG_data_req, MG_data_req_t
\- send data request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive is one (optional)
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks.  The optional
.B M_PROTO
message block, when specified, is structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MG_data_req {
    ulong mg_primitive;         /* always MG_DATA_REQ */
    ulong mg_flags;             /* data flags */
    ulong mg_mx_slot;           /* multiplex slot number */
} MG_data_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sends channel data to the session from the requesting MG stream.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive has the following parameters:
.TP
.I mg_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR MG_DATA_REQ .
.TP
.I mg_flags
specifies the data flags.  Data flags can be a bitwise OR of any of the
following flags:
.RS
.TP
.B MG_DATA_MORE
specifies that the next
.B MG_DATA_REQ
primitive contains data belonging to the same media program.
.RE
.TP
.I mg_mx_slot
specifies the multiplex slot number on the requesting stream upon which the
data is being sent.
.SH ORIGINATION
Media gateway controller.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MG_DATA_IND (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MGI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mgi
.]
.[
rfc3435
.]
.[
h248.1
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
