'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MG_ERROR_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MG_ERROR_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MG_ERROR_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Media Gateway Interface (MGI)"
.SH NAME
.B MG_ERROR_ACK, MG_error_ack, MG_error_ack_t
\- error acknowledgement
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive is one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MG_error_ack {
    ulong mg_primitive;         /* always MG_INFO_REQ */
    ulong mg_error_primitive;   /* primitive in error */
    ulong mg_error_type;        /* MG interface error type */
    ulong mg_unix_error;        /* UNIX error */
} MG_error_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
For primitive that require a local acknowledgement,
.B MG_ERROR_ACK
provides negative acknolwedgement on the receipt of the primitive.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive has the following parameters:
.TP
.I mg_primitive
always MG_INFO_REQ */
.TP
.I mg_error_primitive
indicates the primitive that was received in error.  This field can be one of
the following values:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lbl.
MG_INFO_REQ\fR(7):information request
MG_OPTMGMT_REQ\fR(7):options management request
MG_ATTACH_REQ\fR(7):attach channel request
MG_DETACH_REQ\fR(7):detach channel request
MG_JOIN_REQ\fR(7):join communications session request
MG_ACTION_REQ\fR(7):action request
MG_ABORT_REQ\fR(7):abort action request
MG_CONN_REQ\fR(7):connect termination point request
.\"MG_DATA_REQ\fR(7):
MG_DISCON_REQ\fR(7):disconnect termination point request
MG_LEAVE_REQ\fR(7):leave communications session request
MG_NOTIFY_REQ\fR(7):notifications request
.TE
.TP
.I mg_error_type
indicates the MGI error number. See
.IR \*(lqERRORS\*(rq ,
below.
.TP
.I mg_unix_error
UNIX error */
indicates the
.BR UNIX \(rg
error number.  When
.I mg_error_type
is
.BR MGSYSERR ,
this field contians the
.BR Linux \(rg
.IR errno (3).
Otherwise, this field is ignored by the MGC and coded zero (0) by the MG.
.SH ERRORS
The error type,
.IR mg_error_type ,
can be one of the following values:
.TP 16
.B MGSYSERR
indicates that a
.BR Linux \(rg
system error occured and the
.BR Linux \(rg
system
.IR errno (3)
is in the primitive.
.TP
.B MGOUTSTATE
indicates that the primitive in error would have placed the interface out of
state.
.TP
.B MGBADPRIM
indicates that the primitive was misformattted or unrecognized.
.TP
.B MGNOTSUPP
indicates that the primitive was known, but not supported.
.TP
.B MGBADID
indicates that an identifier in the primitive was invalid.
.TP
.B MGBADOPTTYPE
indicates that the option type specified in the primitive was inivalid.
.TP
.B MGBADOPT
indicates that the options have a bad format or invalid options.
.TP
.B MGBADFLAG
indicates that a flag in the primitive was invalid.
.TP
.B MGIDBUSY
indicatest that the object specified in the primitive by identifier was
busy.
.TP
.B MGBADACT
indicates that the action number was in error.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Media gateway.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MG_OK_ACK (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MGI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mgi
.]
.[
rfc3435
.]
.[
h248.1
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
