'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MG_JOIN_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MG_JOIN_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MG_JOIN_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Media Gateway Interface (MGI)"
.SH NAME
.B MG_JOIN_REQ, MG_join_req, MG_join_req_t
\- join a communications session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This primitive is one
.B M_PROTO
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MG_join_req {
    ulong mg_primitive;         /* always MG_JOIN_REQ */
    ulong mg_se_id;             /* session to join (0 to create) */
    ulong mg_tp_id;             /* joined termination (0 for new) */
    ulong mg_channel_length;    /* channel ids that make up termination */
    ulong mg_channel_offset;    /* channel ids that make up termination */
} MG_join_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Requests that the specified channels be joined to the specified session with
newly created termination point with id specified by the caller
.RI ( mg_tp_id " non-zero)"
or assigned by the provider
.RI ( mg_tp_id " zero)."
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
This primitive has the following parameters:
.TP
.I mg_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR MG_JOIN_REQ .
.TP
.I mg_se_id
specifies the communications session to join or create.  When zero (0), it
specifies that the MG is to create a new communications session and return the
session id in the
.BR MG_JOIN_CON (7)
primitive.  When non-zero, and the communications session already exists, the
specified communications session will be joined.  When non-zero, and the
communications session does not exist, a communications session will be
created and assigned the specified id.
.TP
.I mg_tp_id
specifies the termination point within the communications session to join or
create.  WHen zero (0), it specifies that the MG is to pick an unused termination
point to the communications session and return the termination point id in the
.BR MG_JOIN_CON (7)
primitive.  When non-zero, and the termination point is not in use, the
sepcified termination point will be joined.
.TP
.I mg_channel_length
specifies the length of the channel identifiers that make up the termination
point.  This may be, for example, one channel identifier in a single channel
call, or multiple channel identifiers in a multi-rate call.
.TP
.I mg_channel_offset
specifies the offset, from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block, of the channel identifiers that make up the termination
point.
.SH RULES
.PP
.IP \(em 4
If the specified session id is zero then a new session will be created.
.IP \(em
If the specified session id exists, the existing session will be joined.
.IP \(em
If the specified session id is non-zero but does not exist, one will be
created with the specified id.
.IP \(em
If the specified termination point id is zero, then unused termination point
will be selected in the communications session.
.IP \(em
If the specified termination point id is non-zero, and unused in the
communications session, the session will be joined at the specified
termination point.
.IP \(em
All channels that make up the termination point must be successfully enabled
before this primitive will be confirmed.
.PP
Note that some termination points within some types of communications sessions
have special meaning.  For example, termination point (1) could be the
controllIng participant in a voice conference.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
.PP
.HP
.B Successful:
This primtive is confirmed with the
.BR MG_JOIN_CON (7)
primitive.
.HP
.B Unsuccessful:
It is refused with the
.BR MG_ERROR_ACK (7)
or
.BR MG_LEAVE_IND (7)
primitive.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
Media gateway controller.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MG_JOIN_CON (7).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for MGI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mgi
.]
.[
rfc3435
.]
.[
h248.1
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
