'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MG_JOIN_CON.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:33 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:33 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MG_JOIN_CON 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Media Gateway Interface (MGI)"
.SH NAME
.B MG_JOIN_CON, MG_join_con, MG_join_con_t
\- join confirmation
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive is one
.B M_PROTO
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MG_join_con {
    ulong mg_primitive;         /* always MG_JOIN_CON */
    ulong mg_se_id;             /* joined session */
    ulong mg_tp_id;             /* joined termination */
} MG_join_con_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Confirms that the previous join request was successful and the session id and
termination point id of the join.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive has the following paramters:
.TP
.I mg_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MG_JOIN_CON .
.TP
.I mg_se_id
indicates the session id of the communications session to which a join is
being confirmed.
.TP
.I mg_tp_id
indicates the termination point id of the termination point that has joined
the indicated communications session.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Media gateway.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MG_JOIN_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MGI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mgi
.]
.[
rfc3435
.]
.[
h248.1
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
