'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MG_LEAVE_IND.7,v 0.9 2004/01/17 08:01:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MG_LEAVE_IND 7 "$Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:22 $" "$Name:  $" "Media Gateway Interface"
.SH NAME
.B MG_LEAVE_IND, MG_leave_ind, MG_leave_ind_t
\- autonomous leave indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
This prmitive is one
.B M_PROTO
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MG_leave_ind {
    ulong mg_primitive;         /* always MG_LEAVE_IND */
    ulong mg_se_id;             /* session id */
    ulong mg_tp_id;             /* leaving termination id */
    ulong mg_cause;             /* reason for leaving */
} MG_leave_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Indicates that the termination point has autonomously left the communications
session.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive has the following parameters:
.TP
.I mg_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MG_LEAVE_IND.
.TP
.I mg_se_id
indicates the session identifier of the communications session from which the
termination point(s) have autonomouosly left.
.TP
.I mg_tp_id
indicates the termination point identifier (or zero (0) to indicate all
termination points) of the termination point(s) that are leaving the indicated
commmunications session.
.TP
.I mg_cause
indicates the cause for the autonomous leaving.  Cause values a
provider-specific.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Media gateway.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MG_LEAVE_REQ (7),
.BR MG_LEAVE_CON (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MGI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mgi
.]
.[
rfc3435
.]
.[
h248.1
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
