'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MG_OPTMGMT_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:33 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:33 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MG_OPTMGMT_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Media Gateway Interface (MGI)"
.SH NAME
.B MG_OPTMGMT_ACK, MG_optmgmt_ack, MG_optmgmt_ack_t
\- options management acknowledgement
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive is one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block, formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MG_optmgmt_ack {
    ulong mg_primitive;         /* always MG_OPTMGMT_ACK */
    ulong mg_opt_length;        /* length of options */
    ulong mg_opt_offset;        /* offset of options */
    ulong mg_mgmt_flags;        /* management flags */
} MG_optmgmt_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Indicates that options management request previously invoked with
.BR MG_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
has completed.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive has the following parameters:
.TP
.I mg_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MG_OPTMGMT_ACK .
.TP
.I mg_opt_length
indicates the length of the options.
.TP
.I mg_opt_offset
indicates the offset, from the beginning of the
.B M_PCPROTO
message block, of the options.
.TP
.I mg_mgmt_flags
indicates the management flags.  See
.IR \*(lqFLAGS\*(rq ,
below.
.SH FLAGS
The management flags,
.IR mg_mgmt_flags ,
indicated can be a bitwise OR of one of the following values:
.TP
.B MG_SUCCESS
indicates successful operation
.TP
.B MG_FAILURE
indicates unsuccessful operation
.TP
.B MG_SET_OPT
set options
.TP
.B MG_GET_OPT
get options
.TP
.B MG_NEGOTIATE
negotiate options
.TP
.B MG_DEFAULT
default options
.SH ORIGINATOR
Media gateway.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MG_OPTMGMT_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MGI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mgi
.]
.[
rfc3435
.]
.[
h248.1
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
