'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mgi.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:42 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:42 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MGI 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Media Gateway Interface (MGI)"
.SH NAME
.B mgi
\- Media Gateway Interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/mgi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mgi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " mg_stream " = open(" mg_device ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The Media Gateway Interface,
.BR MGI ,
specifies a
.IR STREAMS (4)-based
kernel-level instantiation of a Media Gateway Control interface definition
compatible with SGCP, MGCP, MEGACO H.248.1, ITU-T H.245, and other media
control and switching protocols.  The Media Gateway Interface (MGI) enables
the user of a media gateway service to access and use any variety of
conforming media gateway control service providers without specific knowledge
of the provider's protocol.  The service interface is designed to support any
media gateway control service providers, and does not address issues
concerning media gateway circuit management, protocol performance, and
performance analysis tools.  The specification assumes that the reader is
familiar with the ITU-T state machines and media gateway control interface
(e.g. H.248.1), and
.IR STREAMS (4).
.PP
.B MGI
specifies an interface that supports the services provided by the Media
Gateway Control Protocol (MGCP),
.BR mgcp (4),
ITU-T H.248.1 Media Gateway Control (MEGACO),
.BR h248 (4),
and local media switching using the Media Gateway drivers,
.BR mg (4).
See
.BR MG (4)
for a description of appropriate drivers and auxiliary modules.
These specifications are targeted for use by developers and testers of
protocol modules that require media gateway control service.
.SS "The Media Gateway Control Layer"
.PP
The Media Gateway Control Layer provides the means to manage the connection
and disconnection of channels (or termination points) within multi-party
communications sessions.  It is a local control protocol in the sense that
there are no remote peers entities.  Communications is between the local user
entity and the local provider entity only.
.SS "Model of the MGI"
.PP
The MGI defines the services provided by the media gateway control layer to
media gateway controller at the boundary between the media gateway control
layer and the media gateway controller entity.
The interface consists of a set of primitives defined as
.IR STREAMS (4)
messages that provides access to the media gateway control layer services, and
are transferred between the MGC (MGS user) entity and the MG (MGS provider)
entity.  These primitives are of two types; ones that originate from the MGC,
and others that originate from the MG.  The primitives that originate from the
MGC make requests to the MG, or respond to an indication of an event of the
MG.  The primitives that originate from the MG ar either confirmation of a
request or are indications to the MGC that the event has occured.
.PP
The MGI allows the MG to be configured with any media gateway controller
(such as ISDN or H.225.0 call control) that also conforms to the MGI.
A media gateway controller can also be a user program (such as the
.B OpenSwitch
call framework) that conforms to the MGI and accesses the MG via
.BR putmsg (2)
and
.BR getmsg (2)
system call.s
.TP
.B "MGI Services"
The features of the MGI are defined in terms of services provided by the MG,
and the individual primitives that may flow between the MGC and the MG.
.TP
.B "Local Management"
The MGI specification also defines a set of local management functions.  These
services have significance only to the local stream.
.PP
Tables 1, 2 and 3 summarizes the MGI service primitives by their state and
service.
.SH "MGI SERVICES DEFINITION"
.PP
The
.B MGI
services are categorized as
.IR "Local Management Services" ,
.IR "Session Services" ,
.IR "Connection Services" ,
.IR "Action Services" ,
.IR "Event Services" " or " "Media Services"
as follows:
.SS "Local Management Services"
.PP
The media gateway provides the following local management services:
.PP
.B Information Serivce
The information service provides the media gateway controller with the ability
to query the media gateway concerning options and parameters specific to the
media gateway and associated with attached multiplex and channels.
The information service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_INFO_REQ (7):
Requests information about the associated media gateway session and attached channels.
This primitive requires local acknowledgment with the
.BR MG_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_INFO_ACK (7):
Indicates information about the associated media gateway session and attached
channels.
.PP
.B Options Management Service.
The options management service provides a mechanism whereby the media gateway
controller can query and change parameters associated with the attached
channels and manage options associated with the media gateway.
The options management service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_OPTMGMT_REQ (7):
Requests management of the specified options.
This primitive requires local acknowledgment with the
.BR MG_OPTMGMT_ACK (7)
primitive.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_OPTMGMT_ACK (7):
Acknowledges that the management of previously specified options is complete.
.PP
.B Channel Attachment Service.
The channel attachement service provides the media gateway controller with the
ability to attach a specified channel to a participant slot in the session
associated with the requesting stream.
The channel attachement service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_ATTACH_REQ (7):
Requests that the specified channels be attached to the specified participant
slots within the specified media gateway session.
This primitive requires local acknowledgment with the
.BR MG_ATTACH_ACK (7)
primitive.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_ATTACH_ACK (7):
Acknowledges successful attachment of the indicated channels to the indicated
participant slots within the indicated media gateway session.
.PP
.B Channel Detachment Service.
The channel detachment service provides the media gateway controller with the
ability to detach a specified channel from a participant slot in the session
associated with the requesting stream.
The channel detachment service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_DETACH_REQ (7):
Requests that the specified channels be detached from the media gateway
session to which they are currently attached.
This primitive requires local acknowledgment with the
.BR MG_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_OK_ACK (7):
Acknowledges successful receipt of the channel detach request primitive.
.PP
.B Receipt Acknowledgement Service.
The receipt acknowledgement service provide an indication to the media gateway
controller of the positive or negative acknowledgment of the previous
primitive issued by the media gateway controller requiring local
acknowledgment.
The receipt acknowledgment service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_OK_ACK (7):
Acknowledges the successful receipt and processing of the previous request
primitive for which a local acknowledgment is outstanding, that has no other
means of local acknowledgment.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_ERROR_ACK (7):
Acknowledges the unsuccessful (non-fatal error) receipt of the previous
request primitive for which a local acknowledgment is outstanding.
.SS "Session Services"
.PP
The media gateway provides the following session services:
.PP
.B Session Join Service.
The session join service provides the media gateway controller with the
ability to add a participant to the session associated with the requesting
stream, or any other session under the control of the media gateway.
The session join service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_JOIN_REQ (7):
Requests that the specified channels join the specified media gateway
communications session at the specified termination point (participant slot).
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_JOIN_CON (7):
Confirmst that the indicated channels have joined the indicated media gateway
communication session at the indicated termination point (participant slot).
.PP
.B Session Leave Service.
The session leave service provides the media gateway controller with the
ability to remove a participant from the session associated with the
requesting stream, or any other session under the control of the media
gateway.
In addition, it is possible that an autonomous exit from a communication
session occurs without the request of the media gateway controller.  In this
case, the session leave service is used to indicated to the media gateway
controller that an autonomous exit from the communications session has
occurred.
The session leave service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_LEAVE_REQ (7):
Requests that the specified termination point (participant) leave the
specified media gateway communications session.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_LEAVE_CON (7):
Confirms that the indicated termination point (participant) has left the
indicated media gateway communication session.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_LEAVE_IND (7):
Indicats that the indicated termination point (participant) has autonomously
left the indicated media gateway communications session.
.SS "Connection Services"
.PP
The media gateway provides the following connection services:
.PP
.B Media Connection Service.
The media connection service provides the media gateway controller with the
ability to connect a channel in the receive and/or transmit directions within
a joined session.
The media connection service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_CONN_REQ (7):
Requests that the specified termination point (participant) be connected into
the specified media gateway communications session in the transmit or receive
directions, or with the specified topology, and with the specified digital
padding.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_CONN_CON (7):
Confirms that the indicated termination point (participant) has been connected
into the indicated media gateway communications session in the directions
indicated, or with the topology indicated.
.PP
.B Media Disconnection Service.
The media disconnection service provides the media gateway controller with the
ability to disconnect a channel from the receive and/or transmit directions
within a joined session.
In addition, it is possible that an autonomous disconnect from a
communications session occurs without the request of the media gateway
controller.  In this case, the media disconnection service is used to indicate
to the media gateway controller that an autnomous disconnect from the
communications session has occured.
The media disconnection service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_DISCON_REQ (7):
Requests that the specified termination point (participant) be disconnected
from the specified media gateway communications session in the directions
specified, or with the topology specified.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_DISCON_CON (7):
Confirmst that the indicated termination point (participant) has been
disconnected from the indicated media gateway communications session in the
directions indicated, or with the topology indicated.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_DISCON_IND (7):
Indicates that the indicated termination point (participant) has autonomously
disconnected from the indicated media gateway communications session in the
directions indicated, or with the topology indicated.
.SS "Action Services"
.PP
The media gateway provides the following action services:
.PP
.B Termination Point Action Service.
The action service provides the media gateway controller with the ability to
perform a specified action on a specified channel within a joined session.
The termination point action service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_ACTION_REQ (7):
Requests that the specified action be invoked on the specified termination
point (participant) in the specified communications session.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_ACTION_CON (7):
Confirmst that the indicated action has begun.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_ACTION_IND (7):
Indicates that the indicated action has completed.
.PP
.B Termination Point Action Abort Service.
The action abort service provides the media gateway controller with the
ability to abort a previously invoked action on a channel associated with a
joined session.
The termination point action abort service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_ABORT_REQ (7):
Requests that the specified action be aborted.
.SS "Event Services"
.PP
The media gateway provides the following event services:
.PP
.B Termination Point Notification Service.
The event service provides the media gateway with the ability to indicate to
the media gateway controller when an event has occurred.
The termination point notificiation service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_NOTIFY_REQ (7):
Requests that the specified events generate an event notification.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_NOTIFY_IND (7):
Indicates that the event for which notification was requested has occurred.
.SS "Media Services"
.PP
The media gateway provides the following media services:
.PP
.B Data Transfer Service.
The data transfer service is used by the media gateway controller to request
the transmission of session media data on the specified channel within a
joined session.  It is also used by the media gateway to indicate the
reception of session media data on the indicated stream.
The data transfer service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_DATA_REQ (7):
Requests that the specified media data be transmitted to the communications
session on the multiplex slot associated with the requesting stream.
.IP \(em 4
.BR MG_DATA_IND (7):
Indicates that the indicated media data was received from the communications
session on the indicated multiplex slot associated with the stream upon which
the indication was issued.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.nf
typedef struct MG_channel_opt {
    ulong mg_obj_type;          /* always MG_OBJ_TYPE_CH */
    ulong mg_obj_id;            /* channel id */
    ulong ch_type;              /* channel media type */
    ulong ch_flags;             /* channel media options flags */
    ulong ch_block_size;        /* data block size (bits) */
    ulong ch_encoding;          /* encoding */
    ulong ch_sample_size;       /* sample size (bits) */
    ulong ch_rate;              /* clock rate (Hz) */
    ulong ch_tx_channels;       /* number of tx channels */
    ulong ch_rx_channels;       /* number of rx channels */
    ulong ch_opt_flags;         /* options flags */
} MG_channel_opt_t;

typedef struct MG_connleg_opt {
    ulong mg_obj_type;          /* always MG_OBJ_TYPE_LG */
    ulong mg_obj_id;            /* channel id */
    ulong lg_type;              /* conn leg media type */
    ulong lg_flags;             /* conn leg media options flags */
    ulong lg_block_size;        /* data block size (bits) */
    ulong lg_encoding;          /* encoding */
    ulong lg_sample_size;       /* sample size (bits) */
    ulong lg_rate;              /* clock rate (Hz) */
    ulong lg_tx_channels;       /* number of tx channels */
    ulong lg_rx_channels;       /* number of rx channels */
    ulong lg_opt_flags;         /* options flags */
} MG_connleg_opt_t;

typedef struct MG_session_opt {
    ulong mg_obj_type;          /* always MG_OBJ_TYPE_SE */
    ulong mg_obj_id;            /* session id */
    ulong se_type;              /* session media type */
    ulong se_flags;             /* session media options flags */
    ulong se_block_size;        /* data block size (bits) */
    ulong se_encoding;          /* encoding */
    ulong se_sample_size;       /* sample size (bits) */
    ulong se_rate;              /* clock rate (Hz) */
    ulong se_tx_channels;       /* number of tx channels */
    ulong se_rx_channels;       /* number of rx channels */
    ulong se_opt_flags;         /* options flags */
} MG_session_opt_t;

#define SEF_INTERWORKING        0x01    /* encoding interworking */
#define SEF_CONFERENCING        0x02    /* conferencing in effect */
#define SEF_CLEARCHANNEL        0x04    /* clear channel enforced */

typedef union MG_options {
    struct {
        ulong mg_obj_type;      /* object type */
        ulong mg_obj_id;        /* object id */
    } obj;
    struct MG_channel_opt ch;   /* channel options */
    struct MG_connleg_opt lg;   /* conn leg options */
    struct MG_session_opt se;   /* session options */
} MG_options_t;

#define MG_SE_OPT_AUTO_GAIN_CONTROL     0x01    /* perform Automatic Gain Control */
#define MG_SE_OPT_LIMITING              0x02    /* perform limiting */
#define MG_SE_OPT_COMPRESSION           0x04    /* perform compression */
.fi
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MG_ABORT_REQ (7),
.BR MG_ACTION_CON (7),
.BR MG_ACTION_IND (7),
.BR MG_ACTION_REQ (7),
.BR MG_ATTACH_ACK (7),
.BR MG_ATTACH_REQ (7),
.BR MG_CONN_CON (7),
.BR MG_CONN_REQ (7),
.BR MG_DATA_IND (7),
.BR MG_DATA_REQ (7),
.BR MG_DETACH_REQ (7),
.BR MG_DISCON_CON (7),
.BR MG_DISCON_IND (7),
.BR MG_DISCON_REQ (7),
.BR MG_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR MG_INFO_ACK (7),
.BR MG_INFO_REQ (7),
.BR MG_JOIN_CON (7),
.BR MG_JOIN_REQ (7),
.BR MG_LEAVE_CON (7),
.BR MG_LEAVE_IND (7),
.BR MG_LEAVE_REQ (7),
.BR MG_NOTIFY_IND (7),
.BR MG_NOTIFY_REQ (7),
.BR MG_OK_ACK (7),
.BR MG_OPTMGMT_ACK (7),
.BR MG_OPTMGMT_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for CCI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mgi
.]
.[
rfc3435
.]
.[
h248.1
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
