'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mtp.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-29 07:10:31 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:31 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mtp.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-29 07:10:31  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:20  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.Dd April 22, 2003
.Os Linux 2.4.18
.Dt MTP 7 PRM
.Sh NAME
.Nm MTP
.Nd "Message Transfer Part (MTP)"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd "#include <ss7/mtpi.h>"
.Fd "#include <ss7/mtpi_ioctl.h>"
.Fo "mtp_stream = open"
.Fa \(lq/dev/mtp\(rq
.Fa flags
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is an implementation of the Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) Message Transfer
Part (MTP) defined in Q.704 and ANSI T1.111.4.
.Nm
provides reliable sequenced or unsequenced delivery of packets over a
connectionless transport between two
.Nm
stream.
.Nm
provides strong assurances that the data arrives in order on a stream, if
requested, and maintains sequencing of packets in the face of most network
failures.  It generates and checks a per-packet checksum to catch transmission
errors.
.Pp
.Nm
provides the following stream types:
.Bl -hang
.It Pa /dev/mtp
.It Pa /dev/mtp-npi
.It Pa /dev/mtp-tpi
.El
.\".TP
.\"\fB\)MTPI\fR \fI\)"/dev/mtp"\fR
.\"This is a stream supporting the MTP Interface. See
.\".BR mtpi (7).
.\"This interface provides the protocol service primitive interface of Q.704 and
.\"T1.111.4.  This is the interface that is used internally when
.\".B MTP
.\"is used with
.\".BR sccp (4)
.\"or
.\".BR isup (4).
.\".TP
.\"\fB\)NPI\fR \fI\)"/dev/mtp-npi"\fR
.\"This is a stream supportingn the NPI interface.  See
.\".BR npi (7).
.\"This interface provides the MTP protocol service interface using the
.\"N-primitives of the NPI interface.  This interface is intended solely for use
.\"by use programs or protocol modules requiring an NPI service provider
.\"interface.
.\".TP
.\"\fB\)TLI\fR \fI\)"/dev/mtp-tpi"\fR
.\"This is a stream supportingn the TLI interface.  See
.\".BR tli (7).
.\"This interface provides the MTP protocol service interface using the
.\"T-primitives of the TLI interface.  This interface is intended solely for use
.\"by user programs (and the XNS/TLI sockets library) or protocol modules
.\"requiring a TLI serivce provider interface.
.\".SS "ADDRESS FORMATS"
.\".SS "LOCAL MANAGEMENT INTERFACE"
.\".SS "DRIVER CONTROL INTERFACE"
.\".SS "PROTOCOL SERVICE INTERFACE"
.\".SH "OPTIONS"
.\".SH "IOCTLS"
.\".SH "ERROR HANDLING"
.\".SH "NOTES"
.\".SH "ERRORS"
.\".SH "STATISTICS"
.\".SH "CAVEATS"
.\".SH "AUTHOR"
.\".SH "VERSIONS"
.\".SH "SEE ALSO"
.\".BR streamio (2)
.\".BR putmsg (2)
.\".BR getmsg (2)
.\".SH "REFERENCES"
.\".SH "COPYRIGHT NOTICE"
.\".PP
.\"\f(HRCopyright \(co 1997-2003 OpenSS7 Corporation.  All Rights Reserved.
.\".PP
.\".ce 1
.\"\f(HRPERMISSION NOTICE\fR
.\".PP
.\"\f(HRPermission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual provided that
.\"the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all copies.
.\".PP
.\"\f(HRPermission is grated to copy and distribute modified version of this manual under the
.\"conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting derived work is distributed
.\"under the terms of a permission notice identical to this one.
.\".PP
.\"\f(HRSince the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual may be incorrect
.\"or out-of-date.  The author(s) and copyright holder(s) assume no responsibility whatsoever for
.\"errors or omissions, or for damage resulting from the use of the information contained herein.
.\"The author(s) and copyright holder(s) may not have taken the same level of care in the
.\"production of this manual, which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\"professionally.
.\".PP
.\"\f(HRFormated or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the source, must
.\"acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.Sh IDENTIFICATION
@PACKAGE_TITLE@: Package @PACKAGE@ version @VERSION@ released @PACKAGE_DATE@.
.\"OpenSS7 for Linux Fast-STREAMS: $Name:  $($Revision: 0.9.2.6 $); $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:31 $.
.Pp
\f(HRCopyright \(co 1997-2005 OpenSS7 Corp.
All Rights Reserved.
See roff source for permission notice.
