'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MTP_RESTART_BEGINS_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/04/17 23:05:18 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:18 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP_RESTART_BEGINS_IND 7 "$Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:18 $" "$Name:  $" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B MTP_RESTART_BEGINS_IND
\- indicate MTP restart condition
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consist of one
.BR M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MTP_restart_begins_ind {
    mtp_ulong mtp_primitive;
} MTP_restart_begins_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The MTP restart begins indication informs the MTP User that the local MTP
provider has been separated from the SS7 signalling network and is in the
process of restarting.  The MTP User should have already received
.BR MTP_PAUSE_IND (7)
for all clusters and signalling points.
.PP
Upon receiving this primitive, the MTP User should refrain from sending any
.BR MTP_TRANSFER_REQ (7)
primitives.
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following members:
.TP
.I mtp_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MTP_RESTART_BEGINS_IND .
.SS State
This primitive is issued in any state.  The new state remains unchanged.
.SS Modes
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.SS Originator
This primitive is originated by the MTP provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MTP_TRANSFER_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Interface (MTPI) is unique to
.BR OpenSS7 .
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
