'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MTP_UNBIND_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-29 07:10:26 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:26 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MTP_UNBIND_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-29 07:10:26  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:16  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP_UNBIND_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B MTP_UNBIND_REQ
\- unbind from MTP-SAP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consist of one
.BR M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MTP_unbind_req {
    mtp_ulong mtp_primitive;
} MTP_unbind_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the MTP provider unbind the MTP-SAP associated
with the stream and deactivate the stream.
.SS Parameters
.PP
.TP
.I mtp_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR MTP_UNBIND_REQ .
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in
.BR MTPS_IDLE
state.
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid in all modes.
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the MTP User.
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
This primitive requires the MTP provider to generate the following
acknowledgements on receipt of the primitive and that the MTP User must wait
for acknoweldgement before issuing any other primitives:
.HP
.I Successful:
correct acknowledgement of the primitive is indicated in the
.BR MTP_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.
.HP
.I Non-fatal errors:
non-fatal errors will be indicated with the
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive indicating the apprioriate error described in
.IR \*(lqERRORS\*(rq ,
below.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Appropriate non-fatal errors are as follows:
.TP
.RB [ MSYSERR ]
A
.B Linux\(rg
system error occured an the
.IR errno (3)
is indicated in the
.I mtp_unix_error
field of the
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MACCESS ]
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MBADADDR ]
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MNOADDR ]
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MBADPRIM ]
.TP
.RB [ MOUTSTATE ]
The primitive would place the interface out of state.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MNOTSUPP ]
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MBADFLAG ]
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MBADOPT ]
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MTP_ADDR_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Interface (MTPI) is unique to
.BR OpenSS7 .
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
