'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mtp_socket.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:20 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:20 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mtp_socket.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:20  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B mtp
\- SS7 Message Transfer Part (MTP) sockets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netss7/ss7.h>
.br
.B #include <netss7/mtp.h>
.HP
.BI "int " mtp_socket " = socket(" \fRPF_SS7\fI ", " \fRSOCK_RDM\fI ", " \fRSS7PROTO_MTP\fI );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B MTP
is an implementation of the MTP (Message Transfer Part) defined in ITU-T
Recommendation Q.704.
.B MTP
provides reliable delivery of ordered or unordered packets over a full duplex
connection between two
.I SOCK_RDM
sockets on top of
.BR ss7 (7).
.B MTP
can provide strong assurances that the data arrives in order on a stream, if
requested, and retransmits lost packets.  It generates and checks a per packet
checksum to catch transmission errors.
.PP
.B MTP
provides the following socket types:
.TP
.B SOCK_RDM
A connectionless socket that preserves message boundaries and provides ordered
or unordered reliable delivery on multiple streams.
.TP
.B SOCK_SEQPACKET
A connection oriented socket that preserves message boundaries.
.SS "Connection Establishment"
.PP
.SS "Sending Data"
.PP
.SS "Receiving Data"
.PP
.SS "Connection Release"
.PP
.SS "ADDRESS FORMATS"
.PP
.SS "SOCKET CALLS"
.PP
.SS "FEATURES"
.PP
.SH "SYSCTLS"
.PP
.SH "SOCKET OPTIONS"
.PP
The following
.B SOL_SS7
socket options are supported by
.BR MTP :
.TP
.B SS7_PVAR
.TP
.B SS7_MPLEV
.TP
.B SS7_DEBUG
.TP
.B SS7_PCR
.TP
.B SS7_HSL
.TP
.B SS7_XSN
.TP
.B SS7_CLUSTER
.PP
The following
.B SOL_MTP
socket options are supported by
.BR MTP :
.TP
.B MTP_ADDR
Pass an ancillary message that contains the
.B sockaddr_mtp
structure that supplies the source address of the message to send or the
destination address of the received message.
When used with
.BR setsockopt "(3) and " getsockopt (3),
the argument is a flag that tells the socket whether the
.B MTP_ADDR
message should be passed or not.  The message itself can only be sent or
retrieved as a control message with a packet using
.BR recvmsg "(3) or " sendmsg (3).

If
.B MTP_ADDR
is passed to
.BR sendmsg (3),
then the outgoing packet will be send with the source address provided.
.TP
.B MTP_MP
.TP
.B MTP_SLS
.TP
.B MTP_RECVADDR
.TP
.B MTP_RECVMP
.TP
.B MTP_RECVSLS
.TP
.B MTP_DEBUG
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.SH "ERROR HANDLING"
.PP
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
.XX
.[
xns
.]
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
