'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MTP_INFO_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/04/17 23:05:17 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:17 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP_INFO_ACK 7 "$Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:17 $" "$Name:  $" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B MTP_INFO_ACK
\- provide protocol information
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consist of one
.BR M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MTP_info_ack {
    mtp_ulong mtp_primitive;
    mtp_ulong mtp_msu_size;
    mtp_ulong mtp_addr_size;
    mtp_ulong mtp_addr_length;
    mtp_ulong mtp_addr_offset;
    mtp_ulong mtp_current_state;
    mtp_ulong mtp_serv_type;
    mtp_ulong mtp_version;
} MTP_info_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The MTP information acknowledgement primitive provides requested information
about the MTP provider.  This information includes the maximum data size,
maximum address size, currently bound address, current state of the MTP
provider, service type and MTPI version.
.SS Parameters
.TP
.I mtp_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MTP_INFO_ACK .
.TP
.I mtp_msu_size
indicates the maximum size of the data portion of an
.BR MTP_TRANSFER_REQ "(7) or " MTP_TRANSFER_IND (7).
.TP
.I mtp_addr_size
indicates the maximum address size.  This is always the size of the MTP
address.  See
.BR mtpi (7)
for a description of the MTP address format.
.TP
.I mtp_addr_length
indicates the length of the MTP-SAP to which the stream is bound.
.TP
.I mtp_addr_offset
indicates the offset of the MTP-SAP to which the stream is bound, from the beginning of
the
.B M_PCPROTO
message block.
.TP
.I mtp_current_state
indicates the current state of the MTP provider.  This field can be one of the
following values:
.RS
.TP
.B MTPS_UNBND
unbound.
.TP
.B MTPS_WACK_BREQ
waiting acknowledgement of the
.BR MTP_BIND_REQ (7).
.TP
.B MTPS_IDLE
bound to a local MTP-SAP and ready to transfer data in connectionless mode.
.TP
.B MTPS_WACK_CREQ
waiting acknowledgement of the
.BR MTP_CONN_REQ (7).
.\".TP
.\".B MTPS_WCON_CREQ
.TP
.B MTPS_DATA_XFER
associated with a remote MTP-SAP and ready to transfer data in connection
oriented mode.
.TP
.B MTPS_WACK_UREQ
waiting acknowledgement of the
.BR MTP_UNBIND_REQ (7).
.\".TP
.\".B MTPS_WACK_DREQ6
.\".TP
.\".B MTPS_WACK_DREQ9
.TP
.B MTPS_WACK_DREQ
waiting acknowledgement of the
.BR MTP_DISCON_REQ (7).
.TP
.B MTPS_WACK_OPTREQ
waiting acknowledgement of the
.BR MTP_OPTMGMT_REQ (7).
.\".TP
.\".B MTPS_WREQ_ORDREL
.\".TP
.\".B MTPS_WIND_ORDREL
.\".TP
.\".B MTPS_WRES_CIND
.TP
.B MTPS_UNUSABLE
the stream has suffered a fatal error and is unusable.
.RE
.TP
.I mtp_serv_type
indicates the service type of the MTP provider.  This field can be one of the
following values:
.RS
.TP
.B M_CLMS
MTP connectionless mode.
.TP
.B M_COMS
MTP connection oriented mode.
.RE
.TP
.I mtp_version
indicates the version of the MTPI interface.
.SS State
This primitive is issued in any state in response to a
.BR MTP_INFO_REQ (7)
primitive.
.SS Modes
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.SS Originator
This primitive is issued by the MTP provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mtpi (7),
.BR MTP_TRANSFER_REQ (7),
.BR MTP_TRANSFER_IND (7),
.BR MTP_BIND_REQ (7),
.BR MTP_CONN_REQ (7),
.BR MTP_UNBIND_REQ (7),
.BR MTP_DISCON_REQ (7),
.BR MTP_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
.BR MTP_INFO_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Interface (MTPI) is unique to
.BR OpenSS7 .
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
