'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MTP_TRANSFER_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:58:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP_TRANSFER_REQ 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:03 $" "$Name:  $" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B MTP_TRANSFER_REQ
\- request data transfer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consist of one
.B M_PROTO
followed by zero or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks.
The optional
.B M_PROTO
message block is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MTP_transfer_req {
    mtp_ulong mtp_primitive;
    mtp_ulong mtp_dest_length;
    mtp_ulong mtp_dest_offset;
    mtp_ulong mtp_mp;
    mtp_ulong mtp_sls;
} MTP_transfer_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the MTP provider transfer the specified data to
the specified destination.
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I mtp_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR MTP_TRANSFER_REQ .
.TP
.I mtp_dest_length
specifies the length of the destination address for the transfer.
.TP
.I mtp_dest_offset
specifies the offset of the destination address for the transfer from the
beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.TP
.I mtp_mp
specifies the message priority for the message.
.TP
.I mtp_sls
specifies the signalling link selection value for the message.
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.BR MTPS_IDLE " or " MTPS_DATA_XFER .
The new state remains unchanged.
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid in all modes; however, in connection-oriented mode,
the
.I mtp_dest_length
field must be zero (0).
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the MTP User.
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
This primitive does not require any acknowledgement on success, however it
does require the MTP provider to act on a non-fatal or fatal error as follows:
.HP
.I Succesful:
there is no acknowledgement for the successful completion of this primitive.
.HP
.I Non-fatal Errors:
If a non-fatal error occurs, it is the responsibility of the MTP provider to
report it with the
.BR MTP_PAUSE_IND "(7) or " MTP_STATUS_IND (7)
primitives.
.HP
.I Fatal Errors:
Fatal errors are indicated with a
.B M_ERROR
.I STREAMS
message type (issued to the MTP User with the
.IR errno (3)
value of
.RB [ EPROTO ]),
which results in the failure of all
.B Linux\(rg
system call on the stream.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Appropriate fatal errors are as follows:
.TP
.RB [ EPROTO ]
The primitive would place the interface out of state, the amount of data
associated with the primitive defines a service data unit larger than that
allowed by the MTP provider (see
.BR MTP_INFO_ACK (7)).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MTP_PAUSE_IND (7),
.BR MTP_RESUME_IND (7),
.BR MTP_TRANSFER_IND (7),
.BR MTP_INFO_ACK (7).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Interface (MTPI) is unique to
.BR OpenSS7 .
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
