'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MTP_BIND_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-29 07:10:25 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:25 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MTP_BIND_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-29 07:10:25  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP_BIND_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B MTP_BIND_REQ
\- Bind to an MTP-SAP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of the MTP bind request is one
.B M_PROTO
message block, formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MTP_bind_req {
    mtp_ulong mtp_primitive;    /* always MTP_BIND_REQ */
    mtp_ulong mtp_addr_length;  /* length of MTP address */
    mtp_ulong mtp_addr_offset;  /* offset of MTP address */
    mtp_ulong mtp_bind_flags;   /* bind flags */
} MTP_bind_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Binds the requesting stream to an MTP address.
.SS Parameters
.PP
.TP
.I mtp_primitive
Always \fCMTP_BIND_REQ\fR.
.TP
.I mtp_addr_length
The length of the address to bind to the requesting stream.
.TP
.I mtp_addr_offset
The offset of the address to bind to the requesting stream from the start of
the
.B M_PROTO
message block.
.TP
.I mtp_bind_flags
Bind flags.  See
.I \*(lqFlags\*(rq
below.
.SS Flags
.PP
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.BR MTPS_UNBND .
Upon success, the new state is
.BR MTPS_WACK_BREQ .
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the MTP User.
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid in all modes.
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
.HP
.I Successful:
Successful acknowledgement is performed with the
.BR MTP_BIND_ACK (7)
primitive.
.HP
.I Non-fatal Errors:
Non-fatal errors are indicated with the
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
.RB [ MSYSERR ]
A
.B Linux \(rg
system error occured and the
.IR errno (3)
is in the
.I UNIX_error
field of the
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ MACCESS ]
The MTP User did not have sufficient permissions to bind the specified
address.
.TP
.RB [ MBADADDR ]
The address was poorly formatted or contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ MNOADDR ]
No address was provided and the MTP Provider could not assign one.
.TP
.RB [ MBADPRIM ]
The primitive is unknown to the MTP Provider or was improprerly formatted.
.TP
.RB [ MOUTSTATE ]
The primitive would place the interface out of state.
.TP
.RB [ MNOTSUPP ]
The primitive is known but not supported by the MTP Provider.
.TP
.RB [ MBADFLAG ]
The
.I mtp_bind_flags
field contained invalid flags.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MBADOPT ]
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MTP_ADDR_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Interface (MTPI) is unique to
.BR OpenSS7 .
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
