'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MTP_TRANSFER_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:16 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:16 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MTP_TRANSFER_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:16  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP_TRANSFER_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B MTP_TRANSFER_IND
\- indicated transferred data
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consist of one
.BR M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MTP_transfer_ind {
    mtp_ulong mtp_primitive;
    mtp_ulong mtp_srce_length;
    mtp_ulong mtp_srce_offset;
    mtp_ulong mtp_mp;
    mtp_ulong mtp_sls;
} MTP_transfer_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates that the MTP provider has received a transfer for the
MTP User from the indicated source address.
.SH Parameters
.TP
.I mtp_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MTP_TRANSFER_IND .
.TP
.I mtp_srce_length
indicates the length of the source address of the transfer.
.TP
.I mtp_srce_offset
indicates the offset of the source address of the transfer from the beginning
of the
.B M_PROTO
message block where the adddress begins.
.TP
.I mtp_mp
indicates the priority of the message.
.TP
.I mtp_sls
indicates the signalling link selection for the message.
.SH States
This primitive is issued in the
.BR MTPS_IDLE " or " MTPS_DATA_XFER
states.  The new state remains unchanged.
.SH Modes
This primitive is issued in any mode; however, in connection oriented mode the
indication of the source address is optional and
.I mtp_srce_length
may be zero (0).
.SH Originator
This primitive is issued by the MTP provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MTP_INFO_ACK (7),
.BR MTP_TRANSFER_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Interface (MTPI) is unique to
.BR OpenSS7 .
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
