'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MTP_ADDR_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MTP_ADDR_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP_ADDR_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B MTP_ADDR_REQ
\- Protocol Address Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consist of one
.BR M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MTP_addr_req {
    mtp_ulong mtp_primitive;    /* always MTP_ADDR_REQ */
} MTP_addr_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Requests that the MTP return the bound and connected MTP addresses.
.SS Parameters
.PP
.TP
.I mtp_primitive
Specifies the primitive type.
.SS Rules
.PP
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in any state where there is no local acknowledgement
pending.
The new state remains unchanged.
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitives is originated by the MTP User.
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid in all modes.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
This primitive requires the MTP to generate one of the following
acknowledgements upon receipt of the primitive:
.HP
.I Successful:
Acknowledgement of the primitive with an
.BR MTP_ADDR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.HP
.I Non-fatal errors:
Non-fatal errors are indicated with the
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
.RB [ MACCESS ]
The MTP User did not have sufficient permissions to enquire about the
addresses.
.TP
.RB [ MBADPRIM ]
The primitive is unknown to the MTP Provider or was improprerly formatted.
.TP
.RB [ MNOTSUPP ]
The primitive is known but not supported by the MTP Provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MTP_ADDR_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Interface (MTPI) is unique to
.BR OpenSS7 .
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
