'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MTP_BIND_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:58:02 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:02 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP_BIND_ACK 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:02 $" "$Name:  $" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B MTP_BIND_ACK
\- acknowledge bind to an MTP-SAP
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consist of one
.BR M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MTP_bind_ack {
    mtp_ulong mtp_primitive;
    mtp_ulong mtp_addr_length;
    mtp_ulong mtp_addr_offset;
} MTP_bind_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Parameters
The primitive contains the following members:
.TP
.I mtp_primitive
Specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR MTP_BIND_ACK .
.TP
.I mtp_addr_length
Specifies the length of the bound address.  If no address was bound, this
field will return zero (0).
.TP
.I mtp_addr_offset
Specifies the offset of the bound address from the beginning of the
.BR M_PCPROTO
message block.  If the
.I mtp_addr_length
field is zero (0), this field should also be zero (0), but should be ignored
by the MTP User.
For MTP address formats, see
.BR mtpi (7).
.SS State
This primitive is valid in state
.BR MTPS_WACK_BREQ .
The new state is
.BR MTPS_IDLE .
.SS Originator
This primitive is originated by the MTP provider.
.SS Modes
This primitive is valid in all modes.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mtpi (7),
.BR MTP_BIND_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Interface (MTPI) is unique to
.BR OpenSS7 .
.PP
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
