'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MTP_STATUS_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:33 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:33 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP_STATUS_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B MTP_STATUS_IND
\- indicate status of remote MTP-SAP or congestion
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consist of one
.BR M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MTP_status_ind {
    mtp_ulong mtp_primitive;    /* always MTP_STATUS_IND */
    mtp_ulong mtp_addr_length;  /* length of affected MTP address */
    mtp_ulong mtp_addr_offset;  /* offset of affected MTP address */
    mtp_ulong mtp_type;         /* type */
    mtp_ulong mtp_status;       /* status */
} MTP_status_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The MTP status indication provides information about remote affected MTPs.  It
provides indicaiton of signalling network congestion towards are remote
affected MTP, and indication of unavailability of a remote affected MTP-SAP.
.PP
MTP status indications are either preventative or responsive.  When
preventative, the indication is given in response to a protocol event or local
management event.  When responsive, the indication is given in response to an
.PP
MTP status indications referring to congestion can indicate affected
signalling point clusters as well as individual affected signalling points.
See
.BR mtpi (7)
for a descripton of the MTP address format.
.BR MTP_TRANSFER_REQ
to the affected destination or MTP-SAP.
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following members:
.TP
.I mtp_primitive
Indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MTP_STATUS_IND .
.TP
.I mtp_addr_length
Indicates the length of the affected MTP or MTP-SAP address.
.TP
.I mtp_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the affected MTP or MTP-SAP address from the beginning
of the
.BR M_PCPROTO
message block.
.TP
.IR mtp_type ", " mtp_status
The interpretation of the
.I mtp_status
field depends on the value of the
.I mtp_type
field.
The
.I mtp_type
field can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_TYPE_CONG
The indication refers to signalling network congestion towards the affected
TMP and the
.I mtp_status
field details the degree of congestion.
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_TYPE_UPU
The indication refers to unavailability of an affected MTP-SAP and the
.I mtp_status
field details the reason for the unavailability.
.RE
.TP
.I mtp_status
This field depends on the type of the status indication,
.IR mtp_type :
.RS
.PP
When the
.I mtp_type
field is
.B MTP_STATUS_TYPE_CONG
the
.I mtp_status
field can be one of the following values:
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_CONGESTION_LEVEL0
Signalling network congestion level 0.
This indicates to the MTP User that congested has subsided to the affected
destination.
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_CONGESTION_LEVEL1
Signalling network congestion level 1.
This indicates to the MTP User that congestion at level 1 is being exprienced
towards the affected MTP and that the MTP User should, if possible, refrain
from sending messages of priority less than 1.
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_CONGESTION_LEVEL2
Signalling network congestion level 2.
This indicates to the MTP User that congestion at level 2 is being exprienced
towards the affected MTP and that the MTP User should, if possible, refrain
from sending messages of priority less than 2.
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_CONGESTION_LEVEL3
Signalling network congestion level 3.
This indicates to the MTP User that congestion at level 3 is being exprienced
towards the affected MTP and that the MTP User should, if possible, refrain
from sending messages of priority less than 3.
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_CONGESTION
Signalling network congestion (unspecified level).
.\"
.\"
.\"
.PP
When the
.I mtp_type
field is
.B MTP_STATUS_TYPE_UPU
the
.I mtp_status
field can be one of the following values:
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_UPU_UNKNOWN
User part unavailable: unknown.
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_UPU_UNEQUIPPED
User part unavailable: unequipped remote user.
.TP
.B MTP_STATUS_UPU_INACCESSIBLE
User part unavailable: inaccessible remote user.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS State
This primitive is valid in response to an interal event of the MTP provider
and does not require a response from the MTP User.  The state remains
unchanged.
.SS Originator
This primitive is originated by the MTP provider.
.SS Modes
This primitive is valid in all modes; however, in the pseudo connection oriented mode, the MTP provider will only issue
.B MTP_STATUS_IND
primitives referring to the MTP to which the the stream is connected.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MTP_ADDR_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Interface (MTPI) is unique to
.BR OpenSS7 .
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
