'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MTP_ERROR_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-29 07:10:25 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:25 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MTP_ERROR_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-29 07:10:25  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP_ERROR_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B MTP_ERROR_ACK
\- error acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consist of one
.BR M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MTP_error_ack {
    mtp_ulong mtp_primitive;
    mtp_ulong mtp_error_primitive;
    mtp_ulong mtp_mtpi_error;
    mtp_ulong mtp_unix_error;
} MTP_error_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The error acknolwedgement provides negative acknowledgement for primitives
requiring local acknowledgement.
.SS Parameters
.TP
.I mtp_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK .
.TP
.I mtp_error_primitive
indicates the primitive type of the primitive that was received in error.
This field can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.BR MTP_BIND_REQ (7)
the MTP bind request primitive was received in error.
.TP
.BR MTP_UNBIND_REQ (7)
the MTP unbind request primitive was received in error.
.TP
.BR MTP_CONN_REQ (7)
the MTP connect request primitive was received in error.
.TP
.BR MTP_DISCON_REQ (7)
the MTP disconnect request primitive was received in error.
.\".TP
.\".BR MTP_ADDR_REQ (7)
.\"the MTP address request primitive was received in error.
.\".TP
.\".BR MTP_INFO_REQ (7)
.\"the MTP information request primitive was received in error.
.TP
.BR MTP_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
the MTP options maangement request primitive was received in error.
.\".TP
.\".BR MTP_TRANSFER_REQ (7)
.\"the MTP data transfer request primitive was received in error.
.RE
.TP
.I mtp_mtpi_error
indicates the reason for the error.  This field can be one of the following
values:
.RS
.TP
.RB [ MSYSERR ]
A
.B Linux\(rg
system error occured and the
.IR errno (3)
is included in the
.I mtp_unix_error
field.
.TP
.RB [ MACCESS ]
The MTP User did not have sufficient permissions to peform the requested
operation given the specified parameters in the primitive.
.TP
.RB [ MBADADDR ]
The MTP User provided an address that was poorly formatted or contained
invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ MNOADDR ]
The MTP User did not supply an address and the MTP provider could not allocate
one.
.TP
.RB [ MBADPRIM ]
The primitive was poorly formatted, unknown to the MTP provider or contained
invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ MOUTSTATE ]
The primitive would place the interface out of state.
.TP
.RB [ MNOTSUPP ]
The primitive is known to the MTP provider but not supported.
.TP
.RB [ MBADFLAG ]
The specified flags were invalid.
.TP
.RB [ MBADOPT ]
The specified options were poorly formatted or contained invalid information.
.RE
.TP
.I mtp_unix_error
indicates the
.B Linux\(rg
system error when the
.I mtp_mtpi_error
field is
.RB [ MSYSERR ].
This can be any of the errors described for
.IR errno (3).
.SS State
This primitive is issued in states
.BR MTP_WACK_BREQ ", " MTP_WACK_UREQ ", " MTP_WACK_CREQ ", " MTP_WACK_DREQ " or " MTP_WACK_OPTREQ .
The new state reverts to the from which the primitive in error was issued.
.SS Modes
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.SS Originator
This primitive is issued by the MTP provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MTP_BIND_REQ (7),
.BR MTP_UNBIND_REQ (7),
.BR MTP_CONN_REQ (7),
.BR MTP_DISCON_REQ (7),
.BR MTP_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
.BR MTP_OK_ACK (7).
.SH VERSIONS
The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Interface (MTPI) is unique to
.BR OpenSS7 .
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
