'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MTP_OK_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/04/17 23:05:18 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:18 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP_OK_ACK 7 "$Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:18 $" "$Name:  $" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B MTP_OK_ACK
\- success acknowledgement
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consist of one
.BR M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MTP_ok_ack {
    mtp_ulong mtp_primitive;
    mtp_ulong mtp_correct_prim;
} MTP_ok_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The success acknowlemgment primitive is used to acknowledge successful
receipt of primitives that require local acknowledgement.
.PP
This primitive indicates to the MTP User that the previous MTP User originated
primitive was received successfully by the MTP provider.  It does not indicate
to the MTP User any MTP protocol action taken due to issuing the
.B MTP_OK_ACK
primitive.  This may only be initiated as an acknowledgement for those
primitives that require one.  The
.B MTP_OK_ACK
primitive is only issued for MTP User originated primitives that have no other
manes of confirmation.
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following members:
.TP
.I mtp_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MTP_OK_ACK.
.TP
.I mtp_correct_prim
indicates the primitive that was correctly received and for which
acknowledgement is being given.  This field can be one of the following
values:
.RS
.\".TP
.\".BR MTP_BIND_REQ (7)
.TP
.BR MTP_UNBIND_REQ (7)
the acknowledged primitive was an MTP unbind request.
.TP
.BR MTP_CONN_REQ (7)
the acknowledged primitive was an MTP connection request.
.TP
.BR MTP_DISCON_REQ (7)
the acknowledged primitive was an MTP disconnection request.
.\".TP
.\".BR MTP_ADDR_REQ (7)
.\".TP
.\".BR MTP_INFO_REQ (7)
.\".TP
.\".BR MTP_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
.\".TP
.\".BR MTP_TRANSFER_REQ (7)
.RE
.SS State
This primitive is issued in any state in response to a primitive requiring
local acknolwedgement.
.SS Modes
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.SS Originator
This primitive is issued by the MTP provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MTP_UNBIND_REQ (7),
.BR MTP_CONN_REQ (7),
.BR MTP_DISCON_REQ (7),
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH VERSIONS
The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Interface (MTPI) is unique to
.BR OpenSS7 .
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
