'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MTP_INFO_REQ.7,v 0.9 2004/01/17 08:01:23 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:23 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP_INFO_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:23 $" "$Name:  $" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B MTP_INFO_REQ
\- request protocol information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consist of one
.BR M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MTP_info_req {
    mtp_ulong mtp_primitive;
} MTP_info_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The MTP information request primitive requests that the MTP provider return
information concerning protocol limits, service types and versions.  See
.BR MTP_INFO_ACK (7)
for a description of the information returned.
.SS Parameters
.PP
This primitive contains the following members:
.TP
.I mtp_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR MTP_INFO_REQ .
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in any state.  The state remains unchanged.
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is valid in all modes.
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is originated by the MTP User.
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
This primitives requires the MTP provider to acknowledge the receipt of the
primitive as follows:
.HP
.I Successful:
When succesfully received, the MTP provider acknowledges receipt of this
primitive with an
.BR MTP_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive.
.HP
.I Non-fatal Errors:
When received in error, the MTP provider acknowledges receipt of this
primitive wtih an
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive indicating the error. See
.IR \*(lqERRORS\*(rq ,
below.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
.RB [ MSYSERR ]
A
.B Linux\(rq
system error occured and the
.IR errno (3)
is indicated in the
.I mtp_unix_error
field of the
.BR MTP_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ MACCESS ]
The MTP User did not have sufficient permission to enquire about the protocol
parameters.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MBADADDR ]
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MNOADDR ]
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MBADPRIM ]
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MOUTSTATE ]
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MNOTSUPP ]
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MBADFLAG ]
.\".TP
.\".RB [ MBADOPT ]
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MTP_INFO_ACK (7).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Interface (MTPI) is unique to
.BR OpenSS7 .
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
