'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MTP_ADDR_ACK.7,v 0.9 2004/01/17 08:01:23 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:23 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP_ADDR_ACK 7 "$Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:23 $" "$Name:  $" "MTP Interface (MTPI)"
.SH NAME
.B MTP_ADDR_ACK
\- Protocol Address Acknowledgement
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consist of one
.BR M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MTP_addr_ack {
    mtp_ulong mtp_primitive;    /* always MTP_ADDR_ACK */
    mtp_ulong mtp_loc_length;   /* length of local MTP address */
    mtp_ulong mtp_loc_offset;   /* offset of local MTP address */
    mtp_ulong mtp_rem_length;   /* length of remote MTP address */
    mtp_ulong mtp_rem_offset;   /* offset of remote MTP address */
} MTP_addr_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the MTP User any bound or connected MTP-SAP
addresses.  It should be initiated in response to the
.BR MTP_ADDR_REQ (7)
primitive.
.SS PARAMETERS
.TP
.I mtp_primitive
Indicates the primitive type.
.TP
.I mtp_loc_length
Indicates the length of the local (bound) address.
.TP
.I mtp_loc_offset
Indicates the offset of the local (bound) address from the beginning of the
message block.
.TP
.I mtp_rem_length
Indicates the length of the remote (connected) address.
.TP
.I mtp_rem_offset
Indicates the offset of the remote (connected) address from the beginning of
the message block.
.SS RULES
.IP \(em 4
If no local address is bound, the \fImtp_loc_length\fR and \fImtp_rem_length\fR fields will be coded zero (0).
.IP \(em
If no remote address is connected, the \fImtp_rem_length\fR field will be coded zero (0).
.SS STATE
This primtiive is valid
when no local acknowledgement is pending and
in any state other than
.BR MTP_UNUSABLE .
The state remains unchanged.
.SS ORIGINATOR
This primitive is originated by the MTP Provider.
.SS MODES
This primitive is valid in all modes.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MTP_ADDR_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
The Message Transfer Part (MTP) Interface (MTPI) is unique to
.BR OpenSS7 .
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
mtpi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
