'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MX_ATTACH_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/04/17 23:05:18 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:18 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MX_ATTACH_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:18 $" "$Name:  $" "Multiplex Interface"
.SH NAME
.B MX_ATTACH_REQ, MX_attach_req, MX_attach_req_t
\- attach a channel to the multiplex
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MX_attach_req {
    ulong mx_primitive;         /* always MX_ATTACH_REQ */
    ulong mx_addr_length;       /* length of channel address */
    ulong mx_addr_offset;       /* offset of channel address */
    ulong mx_flags;             /* options flags */
} MX_attach_req_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Requests that the specified channel(s) be attached to the requesting stream.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I mx_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR MX_ATTACH_REQ .
.TP
.I mx_addr_length
specifies the length of the channel address(es) to attach to the multiplex
associated with the stream.
.TP
.I mx_addr_offset
specifies the offset, from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block, of the channel address(es) to attach to the multiplex
associated with the stream.
.TP
.I mx_flags
specifies the attach options flags.  No attach options flags are currently
specified.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Multiplex Service User.
.SH STATES
This primitive is valid in state
.BR MXS_DETACHED .
The resulting state is
.BR MXS_WACK_AREQ .
.SH RULES
These primitives require the multiplex service provider to generate one of the
following acknowledgments on receipt of the primitive, and the multiplex
service user must wait for the acknowledgment before issuing any other
primitives:
.TP
.B Successful:
Correct acknowledgment of the primitive is indicated with the
.BR MX_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.  In this case, the resulting state is
.BR MXS_ATTACHED .
.TP
.B Non-fatal errors:
These errors will be indicated with the
.BR MX_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.  In this case, the resulting state is unchanged and remains the
same as the state in which the primitive was issued.
.SH ERRORS
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ MXSYSERR ]
UNIX system error.
A UNIX system error occured during the execution of the primitive and the UNIX
error number,
.IR errno (3),
is indicated in the
.I mx_unix_error
field of the
.BR MX_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ MXBADADDR ]
Bad address format or content.
The address specified by
.IR mx_addr_length " and " mx_addr_offset
was poorly formatted or contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ MXOUTSTATE ]
Interface out of state.
The primitive would place the interface out of state.  The
.B MX_ATTACH_REQ
primitive is valid only in the
.B MXS_DETACHED
state.
.TP
.RB [ MXBADOPT ]
Bad options format or content.
The options specified were poorly formatted or contains invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ MXBADPARM ]
Bad parameter format or content.
A parameter contained in the specified options was poorly formatted or
contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ MXBADPARMTYPE ]
Bad paramater structure type.
The structure type within the options was unrecognized or invalid.
.TP
.RB [ MXBADFLAG ]
Bad flag.
The flags specified were invalid.
.TP
.RB [ MXBADPRIM ]
Bad primitive.
The primitive type was unrecognized or the primitive was poorly formatted.
.TP
.RB [ MXNOTSUPP ]
Primitive not supported.
The primitive type was recognized, but is not supported on the requesting
stream or by the multiplex service provider.
.TP
.RB [ MXBADSLOT ]
Bad multplex slot.
The slot specified in field
.I mx_slot
was invalid or out of range.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MX_OK_ACK (7),
.BR MX_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MXI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mxi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
