'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MX_DISCONNECT_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-29 07:10:26 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:26 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MX_DISCONNECT_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-29 07:10:26  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:16  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MX_DISCONNECT_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Multiplex Interface (MXI)"
.SH NAME
.B MX_DISCONNECT_IND, MX_disconnect_ind, MX_disconnect_ind_t
\- multiplex disconnect indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MX_disconnect_ind {
    ulong mx_primitive;         /* always MX_DISCONNECT_IND */
    ulong mx_conn_flags;        /* direction disconnected */
    ulong mx_cause;             /* cause for disconnection */
    ulong mx_slot;              /* slot within channel */
} MX_disconnect_ind_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Indicates that an autonomous disconnection of the multiplex upon which the
primtive is issued.
.PP
This primitive indicates that an error or other asynchronous event has occured
that has resulted in the autonomous disconnection of the channel associated
with the stream upon which the primitive is issued.
.PP
Not all service providers will necessarily issue this primitive.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I mx_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MX_DISCONNECT_IND .
.TP
.I mx_conn_flags
indicates the disconnection flags.  See
.I \*(lqFLAGS\*(rq ,
below.
.TP
.I mx_cause
indicates the cause of disconnection.  See
.I \*(lqFLAGS\*(rq ,
below.
.TP
.I mx_slot
indicates the slot within the multiplex that was disconnected.
.SH FLAGS
The
.I mx_conn_flags
field can contain a bitwise OR of one or more of the following disconnection
flags that indicates the direction(s) that have been disconnected:
.TP
.B MXF_RX_DIR
indicates that the channel has been autonomously disconnected in the receive
direction.
.TP
.B MXF_TX_DIR
indicates that the channel has been autonomously disconnected in the transmit
direction.
.TP
.B MXF_BOTH_DIR
indicates that the channel has been autonomously disconnected in both 
directions.
.PP
The
.I mx_cause
field can contain one of the following cause values:
.SH ORIGINATOR
Multiplex Service Provider.
.SH STATES
This primitive is valid in state
.BR MXS_CONNECTED .
The resulting state is
.BR MXS_ENABLED .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MX_DISCONNECT_REQ (7),
.BR MX_DISCONNECT_CON (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MXI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mxi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
