'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MX_DATA_IND.7,v 0.9 2004/01/17 08:01:24 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:24 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MX_DATA_IND 7 "$Name:  $" "$Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:24 $" "Multiplex Interface"
.SH NAME
.B MX_DATA_IND, MX_data_ind, MX_data_ind_t
\- media data indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one optional
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks containing one or more bytes of media data.  The optional
.B M_PROTO
message block is structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MX_data_ind {
    ulong mx_primitive;         /* always MX_DATA_IND */
    ulong mx_slot;              /* slot within channel */
} MX_data_ind_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Conveys the received media stream from the multiplex service provider to the
multipex service user.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I mx_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MX_DATA_IND .
.TP
.I mx_slot
indicates the multiplex slot to which the data belongs.  Whenever the optional
.B M_PROTO
message block is not included,
.I mx_slot
is assumed to be zero (0).
.SH ORIGINATOR
Multiplex Service Provider.
.SH STATES
This primitive is valid in state
.BR MXS_CONNECTED
for the recieve direction.
The resulting state is
unchanged.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MX_DATA_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MXI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mxi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
