'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MX_DISABLE_IND.7,v 0.9 2004/01/17 08:01:24 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:24 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MX_DISABLE_IND 7 "$Name:  $" "$Date: 2004/01/17 08:01:24 $" "Multiplex Interface"
.SH NAME
.B MX_DISABLE_IND, MX_disable_ind, MX_disable_ind_t
\- multiplex disable indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MX_disable_ind {
    ulong mx_primitive;         /* always MX_DISABLE_IND */
    ulong mx_cause;             /* cause for disable */
} MX_disable_ind_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Indicates that an autonomous disabling of the multiplex associated with the
stream upon which the primitive is issued.
.PP
This primitive indicates that an error or other asynchronous event has occured
that has resulted in the autonomous disabling of the multiplex associated with
the stream upon which the primitive is issued.
.PP
Not all service providers will necessarily issue this primitive.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I mx_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MX_DISABLE_IND .
.TP
.I mx_cause
indicates the cause of the autonomous disable.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Multiplex Service Provider.
.SH STATES
This primitive is valid in any stat in which the multiplex is enabled.
The resulting state is
.BR MXS_ATTACHED .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MX_DISABLE_REQ (7),
.BR MX_DISABLE_CON (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MXI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mxi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
