'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MX_ERROR_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:58:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MX_ERROR_ACK 7 "$Name:  $" "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:03 $" "Multiplex Interface"
.SH NAME
.B MX_ERROR_ACK, MX_error_ack, MX_error_ack_t
\- error acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MX_error_ack {
    ulong mx_primitive;         /* always MX_ERROR_ACK */
    ulong mx_error_primitive;   /* primitive in error */
    ulong mx_error_type;        /* MXI error */
    ulong mx_unix_error;        /* UNIX error */
    ulong mx_state;             /* resulting state */
} MX_error_ack_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
For primitives that required local acknowledgment, this primitive provides
negative acknowledgment on the receipt of the primitive.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I mx_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MX_ERROR_ACK .
.TP
.I mx_error_primitive
indicates the primitive that was received in error.  This field can be one of
the following values:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
ll.
\fBMX_INFO_REQ\fR(7):information request
\fBMX_OPTMGMT_REQ\fR(7):options management request
\fBMX_ATTACH_REQ\fR(7):attach request
\fBMX_DETACH_REQ\fR(7):detach request
\fBMX_ENABLE_REQ\fR(7):enable request
\fBMX_DISABLE_REQ\fR(7):disable request
\fBMX_CONNECT_REQ\fR(7):connection request
\fBMX_DISCONNECT_REQ\fR(7):disconnection request
.TE
.TP
.I mx_error_type
indicates the error type.  See
.I \*(lqERRORS\*(rq ,
below.
.TP
.I mx_unix_error
indicates the
.BR UNIX \(rg
error number,
.IR errno (3).
When
.I mx_error_type
is
.BR MXSYSERR ,
this field contains the
.BR Linux \(rq
.IR errno (3).
Otherwise, this field is ignored by the multiplex service user and set to zero
(0) by the multiplex service provider.
.TP
.I mx_state
indicates the resulting state of the multiplex service provider.  This is the
state from which the errored primitive was issued.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Multiplex Service Provider.
.SH STATES
This primitive is valid in any state when a local acknowledgment is
outstanding.  The resulting state is the state in which the errored primitive
was issued.
.SH ERRORS
The error type,
.IR mx_error_type ,
can be one of the following values:
.TP 16
.RB [ MXSYSERR ]
.I UNIX system error.
A
.BR UNIX \(rg
system error occured during the execution of the primitive, and the
.BR UNIX \(rg
error number,
.IR errno (3),
is indicated in the
.I mx_unix_error
field of the
.B MX_ERROR_ACK
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ MXBADADDR ]
.I Bad address format or content.
A specified address was poorly formatted or contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ MXOUTSTATE ]
.I Interface out of state.
The primitive would place the interface out of state.  The errored primitive
must be issued from a specific set of valid states, yet the errored primitive
was not issued in on e of the state for which it is valid.
.TP
.RB [ MXBADOPT ]
.I Bad options format or content.
Specified options were poory formatted or contained illegal information.
.TP
.RB [ MXBADPARM ]
.I Bad parameter format or content.
Specified options contained a parameter that was poorly formatted or contained
invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ MXBADPARMTYPE ]
.I Bad paramater structure type.
Specified parameter type was not recognized or was poorly formatted for the
specified type.
.TP
.RB [ MXBADFLAG ]
.I Bad flag.
Specified flags were invalid.
.TP
.RB [ MXBADPRIM ]
.I Bad primitive.
The primitive type was unrecognized or the primitive message block was poorly
formatted for the primitive type.
.TP
.RB [ MXNOTSUPP ]
.I Primitive not supported.
The primitive type was recognized, but is not supported for the stream or
multiplex service provider on which the errored primitive was issued.
.TP
.RB [ MXBADSLOT ]
.I Bad multplex slot.
The specified multiplex slot was invalid or out of range.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH VERSIONS
.BR MX_INFO_REQ (7),
.BR MX_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
.BR MX_ATTACH_REQ (7),
.BR MX_DETACH_REQ (7),
.BR MX_ENABLE_REQ (7),
.BR MX_DISABLE_REQ (7),
.BR MX_CONNECT_REQ (7),
.BR MX_DISCONNECT_REQ (7).
This manpage was written for MXI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mxi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
