'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MX_OPTMGMT_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/04/17 23:05:19 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:19 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MX_OPTMGMT_ACK 7 "$Name:  $" "$Date: 2004/04/17 23:05:19 $" "Multiplex Interface"
.SH NAME
.B MX_OPTMGMT_ACK, MX_optmgmt_ack, MX_optmgmt_ack_t
\- options management acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MX_optmgmt_ack {
    ulong mx_primitive;         /* always MX_OPTMGMT_REQ */
    ulong mx_opt_length;        /* length of options */
    ulong mx_opt_offset;        /* offset of options */
    ulong mx_mgmt_flags;        /* option flags */
} MX_optmgmt_ack_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Indicates that the options management request previously invoked with
.BR MX_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
has completed.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I mx_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MX_OPTMGMT_ACK .
.TP
.I mx_opt_length
indicates the length of the options.
.TP
.I mx_opt_offset
indicates the offset, from the beginning of the
.B M_PCPROTO
message block, of the options.
.TP
.I mx_mgmt_flags
indicates the management flags.  See
.IR \*(lqFLAGS\*(rq ,
below.
.SH FLAGS
The management flags,
.IR mx_mgmt_flags ,
indicated can be a bitwise OR of one of the following flags:
.TP
.B MX_SET_OPT
indicates that the requested options were set.
.TP
.B MX_GET_OPT
indicates that the requested options were returned.
.TP
.B MX_NEGOTIATE
indicates that the requested options were negotiated.
.TP
.B MX_DEFAULT
indicates that the returned options are the default options.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Multiplex Service Provider.
.SH STATES
This primitive is valid in any state.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MX_OPTMGMT_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MXI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mxi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
