'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MX_OPTMGMT_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:58:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MX_OPTMGMT_REQ 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:03 $" "$Name:  $" "Multiplex Interface"
.SH NAME
.B MX_OPTMGMT_REQ, MX_optmgmt_req, MX_optmgmt_req_t
\- options management request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MX_optmgmt_req {
    ulong mx_primitive;         /* always MX_OPTMGMT_REQ */
    ulong mx_opt_length;        /* length of options */
    ulong mx_opt_offset;        /* offset of options */
    ulong mx_mgmt_flags;        /* option flags */
} MX_optmgmt_req_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Requests that the specified options be managed according to the specified
management flag setting.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I mx_primitive
specifies the primitive type.  Always
.BR MX_OPTMGMT_REQ .
.TP
.I mx_opt_length
specifies the length of the options.
.TP
.I mx_opt_offset
specifies the offset, from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block,
of the options.
.TP
.I mx_mgmt_flags
specifies the management flags.  See
.IR \*(lqFLAGS\*(rq ,
below.
.SH FLAGS
These management flags,
.IR mx_mgmt_flags ,
specified can be bitwise OR of one of the following values:
.TP
.B MX_SET_OPT
set options
.TP
.B MX_GET_OPT
get options
.TP
.B MX_NEGOTIATE
negotiate options
.TP
.B MX_DEFAULT
default options
.SH ORIGINATOR
Multiplex Service User.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MX_OPTMGMT_ACK (7),
.BR MX_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MXI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mxi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
