'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MX_OK_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:16 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:16 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MX_OK_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:16  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MX_OK_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Multiplex Interface (MXI)"
.SH NAME
.B MX_OK_ACK, MX_ok_ack, MX_ok_ack_t
\- success acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct MX_ok_ack {
    ulong mx_primitive;         /* always MX_OK_ACK */
    ulong mx_correct_prim;      /* correct primitive */
    ulong mx_state;             /* resulting state */
} MX_ok_ack_t;
\s+1\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Provides local acknowledgment of receipt and processing of a primitive that
requires local acknowledgment and has no other means of acknowledgment.
.SH PARAMETERS
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I mx_primitive
indicates the primitive type.  Always
.BR MX_OK_ACK .
.TP
.I mx_correct_prim
indicates the primitive that was received and processed successfully.  This
field can be one of the following values:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
ll.
\fBMX_INFO_REQ\fR(7):information request
\fBMX_OPTMGMT_REQ\fR(7):options management request
\fBMX_ATTACH_REQ\fR(7):attach request
\fBMX_DETACH_REQ\fR(7):detach request
\fBMX_ENABLE_REQ\fR(7):enable request
\fBMX_DISABLE_REQ\fR(7):disable request
\fBMX_CONNECT_REQ\fR(7):connect request
\fBMX_DISCONNECT_REQ\fR(7):disconnect request
.TE
.TP
.I mx_state
indicates the resulting state of the multiplex service provider.  This is the
state to which the correct primitive moves the multiplex service provider
state machine.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Multiplex Service Provider.
.SH STATES
This primitive is issued in any state when a local acknowledgment is
outstanding.  The resulting state is the state to which the state machine
moves for the correct primitive as indicated in field
.IR mx_state .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MX_INFO_REQ (7),
.BR MX_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
.BR MX_ATTACH_REQ (7),
.BR MX_DETACH_REQ (7),
.BR MX_ENABLE_REQ (7),
.BR MX_DISABLE_REQ (7),
.BR MX_CONNECT_REQ (7),
.BR MX_DISCONNECT_REQ (7).
.SH VERSIONS
This manpage was written for MXI Version 1.
.XX
.[
mxi
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
