'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_BIND_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/05/12 10:14:59 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/05/12 10:14:59 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH N_BIND_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/05/12 10:14:59 $" "$Name:  $" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.SH NAME
.BR N_BIND_REQ " (" N_bind_req_t )
\- Bind Protocol Address Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of the message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block and its structure is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;            /* always N_BIND_REQ */
    ulong ADDR_length;          /* length of address */
    ulong ADDR_offset;          /* offset of address */
    ulong CONIND_number;        /* req # of conn-indications to be queued */
    ulong BIND_flags;           /* flags associated with N_BIND_REQ */
    ulong PROTOID_length;       /* length of the protocol id */
    ulong PROTOID_offset;       /* offset of protocol id */
} N_bind_req_t;

/* Flags associated with N_BIND_REQ */

#define DEFAULT_LISTENER  0x00000001L
#define TOKEN_REQUEST     0x00000002L
#define DEFAULT_DEST      0x00000004L
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the NS provider bind a NS user entity to a
network address and negotiate the number of connect indications allowed to be
outstanding by the NS provider for the specified NS user entity being bound.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP
.I PRIM_type
Is the primitive type.

.TP
.I ADDR_length
Is the length in bytes of the network address to be bound to the stream.

.TP
.I ADDR_offset
Is the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO block
where the network address begins.

.TP
.I CONIND_number
Is the requested number of connect indications allowed to be outstanding by
the NS provider for the specified protocol address.  (If the number of
outstanding connect indications equals
.IR CONIND_number ,
the NS provider need not discard further incoming connect indications, but may
choose to queue them internally until the number of outstanding connect
indications drops below the
.IR CONIND_number .)
Only one stream per network address is allowed to have a
.I CONIND_number
value greater than zero.  This indicates to the network provider that this
stream is the listener stream for the NS user.  This stream will be used by the
NS provider for connect indications for that network address.  If a stream is
bound as a listener stream, it will not be able to initiate connect requests.
If the NS user attempts to send an
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive down this stream,
an
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
message will be sent to the NS user by the NS provider with an error value fo
.BR NACCESS .
This field should be ignored in CLNS.

.TP
.I BIND_flags
Bind flags\-any of the following flags:
.RS

.TP
.B DEFAULT_LISTENER
When set, this flag indicates that this stream is the "default listener
stream".  This stream is used to pass connect indications for all incoming
calls that contain protocol identifiers that are not bound to any other
listener, or when a listener stream with
.I CONIND_number
value of greater than zero is not found.  Also, the default listener will
receive all incoming call indications that contain no user data.

Only one default listener stream is allowed per occurrence of
.BR NPI .
An attempt to bind a default listener stream when one is already bound should
result in an error (of type
.BR NBOUND ).

The
.B DEFAULT_LISTENER
flag is ignored in CLNS.

.TP
.B TOKEN_REQUEST
When set, this flag indicates to the NS provider that the NS user has
requested that a "token" be assigned to the stream (to be used in the NC
response message), and the token value be returned to the NS user via the
.BR N_BIND_ACK (7)
primitive.  The token assigned by the NS provider can then be used
by the NS user in a subsequent
.BR N_CONN_RES (7)
primitive to identify the stream on which the NC is to be established.  The
.B TOKEN_REQUEST
flag is ignored in CLNS.

.TP
.B DEFAULT_DEST
When set, this flag indicates that this stream is the "default destination
stream." This stream will receive all packets destined for the NSAP specified
in the bind request.  If no NSAP is indicated in the bind request, then this
stream should receive all packets destined to an NSAP which is bound to no
other stream.  Only one default destination stream per NSAP is allowed per
occurrence of
.BR NPI .
An attempt to bind a default destination stream to an NSAP when one is already
bound should result in an error of type
.BR NBOUND .

The
.B DEFAULT_DEST
flag is ignored in the CONS.
.RE

.TP
.I PROTOID_length
Is the length in bytes of the protocol ids to be bound to the stream.

.TP
.I PROTOID_offset
Is the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
block where the protocol id
begins.
.SH STATE
.PP
This primitive is valid in state
.B NS_UNBND
(see Appendix B).
.SH "NEW STATE"
.PP
The new state is
.BR NE_WACK_BREQ .
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
The NS provider will generate one of the following acknowledgments upon
receipt ofthe
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive:
.HP
.B Successful: 
Correct acknowledgment of the primitive is indicated via the
.BR N_BIND_ACK (7)
primitive.
.HP
.B Non-fatal errors: 
These errors will be indicated via the
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.  The applicable
non-fatal errors are as follows:
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
.RB [ NBADADDR ]
The network address was in an incorrect format or the address contained illegal
information.  It is not intended to indicate protocol errors.
.TP
.RB [ NBOUND ]
The NS user attempted to bind a second stream to a network address with the
.I CONIND_number
set to a non-zero value, or attempted to bind a second stream with the
.B DEFAULT_LISTENER
flag value set to non-zero.
.TP
.RB [ NNOADDR ]
The NS provider could not allocate an address.
.TP
.RB [ NACCESS ]
The user did not have proper permissions for the use of the requested address.
.TP
.RB [ NOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ NSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in the
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ NNOPROTOID ]
Protocol identifier could not be allocated.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
