'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_DISCON_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-29 07:10:27 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:27 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: N_DISCON_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-04-29 07:10:27  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2007/02/13 05:55:13  brian
.\" - corrected ulong to np_ulong
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:16  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH N_DISCON_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.SH NAME
.BR N_DISCON_IND " (" N_discon_ind_t )
\- disconnect indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of the message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block, followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
blocks.
The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    np_ulong PRIM_type;         /* always N_DISCON_IND */
    np_ulong DISCON_orig;       /* originator */
    np_ulong DISCON_reason;     /* reason */
    np_ulong RES_length;        /* responding address length */
    np_ulong RES_offset;        /* responding address offset */
    np_ulong SEQ_number;        /* sequence number */
} N_discon_ind_t;

\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This network-provider originated primitive indicates to the NS user that
either a request for connection has been denied or an existing connection has
been disconnected.
.PP
The value of the NS user data parameter is identical to the value in
the corresponding
.BR N_DISCON_REQ (7)
primitive.  The NS user data parameter is present only if the originator
parameter indicates that the release was initiated by the NS user.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

.TP
.I DISCON_orig
Indicates the source of the NC release.

.TP
.I DISCON_reason
Gives information about the cause of the release.

.TP
.I RES_length
Indicates the length of the address of the responding address parameter.  The
responding address parameter is an optional parameter, and is present in the
primitive only in the case where the primitive is used to indicate rejection
of an NC establishment attempt by an NS user.  When not present, the value of
this parameter is zero.  When present, the value of the disconnect address
parameter is identical to that supplied with the corresponding
.BR N_DISCON_REQ (7)
primitive.

.TP
.I RES_offset
Is the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block where the network address begins.

.TP
.I SEQ_number
When its value is non-zero, it identifies the sequence number associated with
the
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)
that is being aborted.
.RS
.PP
The value of this parameter must be zero when:
.IP "a." 5
indicating the rejection of a previously issued N_CONN_REQ primitive; or
.IP b.
indicating the release of a NC that is already successfully established.  When
this field is non-zero and its value is the same as the sequence number
assigned to an unacknowledged
.BR N_CONN_IND (7),
it indicates that the NS provider is canceling the unacknowledged
.BR N_CONN_IND (7).
.SH STATE
The valid states are
.BR NS_WCON_CREQ ,
.BR NS_WRES_CIND ,
.BR NS_DATA_XFER ,
.BR NS_WCON_RREQ ,
and
.BR NS_WRES_RIND .
.SH "NEW STATE"
The new state is
.B NS_IDLE
(except when number of outstanding connect indications is greater than 1, in
which case the resulting state is
.BR NS_WRES_CIND ).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR N_CONN_IND (7),
.BR N_CONN_IND (7),
.BR N_DISCON_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
