'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_DISCON_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2007/02/13 05:55:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/13 05:55:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: N_DISCON_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2007/02/13 05:55:13  brian
.\" - corrected ulong to np_ulong
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:16  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH N_DISCON_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.SH NAME
.BR N_DISCON_REQ " (" N_disocn_req_t )
\- Disconnect Request
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This user-originated primitive requests that the NS provider deny a request
for a network connection, or disconnect an existing connection.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of the message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block, followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks (for NS user data).  The NS user data may be lost if the NS
provider initiates release before the
.BR N_DISCON_IND (7)
is delivered.  Therefore, the NS user data parameter is present only if the
originator parameter (as discussed in
.BR N_DISCON_IND (7)
definition) indicates that the release was originated by an NS user.The NS
user may send any integral number of octets of data within a range supported
by the NS provider (see
.BR N_INFO_ACK (7)).
The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    np_ulong PRIM_type;         /* always N_DISCON_REQ */
    np_ulong DISCON_reason;     /* reason */
    np_ulong RES_length;        /* responding address length */
    np_ulong RES_offset;        /* responding address offset */
    np_ulong SEQ_number;        /* sequence number */
} N_discon_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP
.I PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

.TP
.I DISCON_reason
Gives information about the cause of the release.

.TP
.I RES_length
Indicates the length of the address of the responding address parameter.  The
responding address parameter is an optional parameter, and is present in the
primitive only in the case where the primitive is used to indicate rejection
of an NC establishment attempt by an NS user.  The responding address parameter
conveys the network address of the NS user entity from which the
.B N_DISCON_REQ
was issued and under certain circumstances (e.g.  call redirection, generic
addressing, etc.) may be different from the "destination address" in the
corresponding
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive.

.TP
.I RES_offset
Is the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block where the network address begins.

.TP
.I SEQ_number
When non-zero, it identifies the sequence number of the
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)
message being rejected.  This number is used by the NS provider to associate
the
.B N_DISCON_REQ
with an unacknowledged N_CONN_IND that is to be rejected.  If
the
.B N_DISCON_REQ
is rejecting a NC that is already established(or rejecting a
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
that the NS user had previously sent and has not yet been confirmed), then
this field should have a value of 0.
.SH STATE
.PP
This primitive is valid in states
.BR NS_WCON_CREQ ,
.BR NS_WRES_CIND ,
.BR NS_DATA_XFER ,
.BR NS_WCON_RREQ ,
.BR NS_WRES_RIND .
.SH "NEW STATE"
.PP
The new state depends on the original state (see Appendix B, Table B-8).
.SH RESPONSE
.PP
The NS provider should generate one of the following acknowledgments upon
receipt of this primitive:
.HP
.B Successful:
Successful completion is indicated via the
.BR N_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.
.HP
.B Unsuccessful (Non-fatal errors):
Errors are indicated via the
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:
.TP
.RB [ NOUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ NBADDATA ]
The amount of user data specified was outside the range supported by khe NS
provider.
.TP
.RB [ NSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in the
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ NBADSEQ ]
The specified sequence number referred to an invalid
.BR N_CONN_IND (7)
message, or the
.B N_DISCON_REQ
is rejecting an NC that is already established (or rejecting an
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7)
that the NS user had previously sent and has not yet been confirmed) and the
value of the sequence number is not 0.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR N_CONN_IND (7),
.BR N_CONN_REQ (7),
.BR N_DISCON_IND (7),
.BR N_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR N_INFO_ACK (7)),
.BR N_OK_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
