'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_EXDATA_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:58:04 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:04 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH N_EXDATA_IND 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:04 $" "$Name:  $" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.SH NAME
.BR N_EXDATA_IND " (" N_exdata_ind_t )
\- expedited data transfer indication
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a NS provider originated primitive and is used to indicate to the NS
user that this message contains an ENSDU.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of the message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block, followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
blocks.  The value of the data in the
.B M_DATA
blocks is identical to that supplied with the corresponding
.BR N_EXDATA_REQ (7)
primitive.  The structure of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ulong PRIM_type;            /* always N_EXDATA_IND */
} N_exdata_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.
.SH STATE
This primitive is valid in state
.BR NS_DATA_XFER .
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state remains the same
.RB ( NS_DATA_XFER ).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
