'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: N_UDERROR_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2007/02/13 05:55:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/13 05:55:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: N_UDERROR_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2007/02/13 05:55:13  brian
.\" - corrected ulong to np_ulong
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:17  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH N_UDERROR_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.SH NAME
.BR N_UDERROR_IND " (" N_uderror_ind_t )
\- unitdata error indication
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the NS user that a datagram with the specified
destination address and QOS parameters has resulted in an error condition.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The format of the message is one
.B M_PROTO
message block, and its structure is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    np_ulong PRIM_type;         /* always N_UDERROR_IND */
    np_ulong DEST_length;       /* destination address length */
    np_ulong DEST_offset;       /* destination address offset */
    np_ulong RESERVED_field;    /* reserved field for DLPI
                                   compatibility */
    np_ulong ERROR_type;        /* error type */
} N_uderror_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.

.TP
.I DEST_length
Indicates the length of the destination address.  The address is the same as in
the corresponding
.BR N_UNITDATA_REQ (7)
primitive.

.TP
.I DEST_offset
Indicates the offset of the destination address from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.

.TP
.I RESERVED_field
This field is reserved whose value must be set to zero.

.TP
.I ERROR_type
Specifies the reason for the error.
.SH STATE
This primitive is valid in state
.BR NS_IDLE .
.HS "NEW STATE"
The resulting state remains unchanged.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
