'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: npi_mtp.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2005/05/14 08:32:29 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/14 08:32:29 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP-NPI 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Network Provider Interface (NPI)"
.SH "NAME"
mtp-npi \- Message Transfer Part (MTP) Network Provider Interface (NPI)
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.B #include <sys/npi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_ss7.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_mtp.h>
.HP
.BI "int " mtp_stream " = open(" /dev/mtp-npi ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " mtp_stream " = open(" /dev/mtp-npi-cl ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " mtp_stream " = open(" /dev/mtp-npi-co ", " flags );
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.B MTP-NPI
provides a stream support the Network Provider Interface
.RB ( tpi (7))
to the Message Transfer Part
.RB ( mtp (7)).
This STREAMS interface provides the
.BR mtp (7)
protocol service interface using the N-primitives of the common
.BR npi (7)
interface.
.PP
The
.B MTP-NPI
supports three service providers as follows:
.TP
.B /dev/mtp-npi
This will open an
.B MTP-NPI
service provider.  If the service indicator which is bound in the MTP address
is for a connectionless service indicator, the MTP will provide a
connectionless
.B N_CLNS
service type.  If the service indicator that is bound in the MTP address is
for a pseudo-connection-oriented service indicator, the MTP will provide a
connection-oriented
.B N_CONS
service type.
.TP
.B /dev/mtp-npi-cl
This will open a connectionless service provider.  Regardless of the service
indicator which is bound in the MTP address, the service provider will always
provide an
.B N_CLNS
service type.
.TP
.B /dev/mtp-npi-co
This will open a pseudo-connection-oriented service provider.  Regardless of
the service indicator which is bound in the MTP address, the service provider
will always provide an
.B N_CONS
service type.
.SS "ADDRESS FORMATS"
.PP
The
.B MTP-TPI
address is formatted as a socket address for compatability with the
.BR sockets (4)
library for
.BR tpi (7).
The address format is as follows:

.RS
.nf
\fC\s-2\
struct sockaddr_mtp {
        sa_family_t mtp_family;         /* Address family */
        uint16_t mtp_ni;                /* Network indicator */
        uint16_t mtp_si;                /* Service indicator */
        uint32_t mtp_pc;                /* Point code */
        uint8_t mtp_zero[sizeof(struct sockaddr) - sizeof(sa_family_t) -
                         sizeof(uint16_t) * 2 - sizeof(uint32_t)];
};
\s+2\fR
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.B MTP-TPI
address contains the following fields:
.TP
.I mtp_family
Specifies the address family of the socket address.  The address family is
always
.B AF_MTP
or is set to
.BR AF_UNSPECIFIED .
.TP
.I mtp_ni
The network to which the address belongs.
.TP
.I mtp_si
The service indicator.  Service indicators may be one of the following:

.RS
.RE
.TP
.I mtp_pc
The signalling point code, least significant bit aligned in a 32-bit field.
.SH "QUALITY OF SERVICE PARAMETERS"
The
.BR npi (7)
N-primitives use a number of Quality of Service structures.
.B MTP-NPI
defines the following QOS structures:
.SS N_QOS_SEL_DATA_MTP
.PP
This structure is used in the
.B N_OPTMGMT_REQ
primitive.  It is formatted as follows:

.RS
.nf
\fC\s-2\
#define N_QOS_SEL_DATA_MTP      0x0801
typedef struct {
        ulong n_qos_type;               /* always N_QOS_SEL_DATA_MTP */
        ulong sls;                      /* signalling link selection */
        ulong mp;                       /* message priority */
} N_qos_sel_data_mtp_t;
\s+2\fR
.fi
.RE
.TP
.I n_qos_type
Specifies the QOS structure type.  Always N_QOS_SEL_DATA_MTP.
.TP
.I sls
Specifies the signalling link selection (SLS) to be used in the outgoing
message.
.TP
.I mp
Specifies the message priority to be used in the outgoing message.
.SS N_QOS_SEL_CONN_MTP
.PP
This structure is used in the
.BR N_CONN_REQ " and " N_CONN_CON
primitives.  It is formatted as follows:

.RS
.nf
\fC\s-2\
#define N_QOS_SEL_CONN_MTP      0x0802
typedef struct {
        ulong n_qos_type;               /* always N_QOS_SEL_CONN_MTP */
        ulong sls;                      /* signalling link selection */
        ulong mp;                       /* message priority */
} N_qos_sel_conn_mtp_t;
\s+2\fR
.fi
.RE
.TP
.I n_qos_type
Specifies the QOS structure type.  Always N_QOS_SEL_CONN_MTP.
.TP
.I sls
Specifies the default signalling link selection (SLS) to be used in outgoing
messages on the connection.
.TP
.I mp
Specifies the default message priority (MP) to be used in the outgoing
messages on the connection.
.SS N_QOS_SEL_INFO_MTP
.PP
This structure is used in the
.B N_INFO_ACK
primitive.  It is formatted as follows:

.RS
.nf
\fC\s-2\
#define N_QOS_SEL_INFO_MTP      0x0803
typedef struct {
        ulong n_qos_type;               /* always N_QOS_SEL_INFO_MTP */
        ulong pvar;                     /* protocol variant */
        ulong popt;                     /* protocol options */
        ulong sls;                      /* signalling link selection */
        ulong mp;                       /* message priority */
} N_qos_sel_info_mtp_t;
\s+2\fR
.fi
.RE
.TP
.I n_qos_type
Specifies the QOS structure type.  Always N_QOS_SEL_INFO_MTP.
.TP
.I pvar
Specifies the protocol variant.  For more information on protocol variants,
see
.BR ss7 (7).
.TP
.I popt
Specifies the protocol options.  For
.B MTP-NPI
the protocol options can be a bitwise \*(lqOR\*(rq of the following:

.RS
.TP
SS7_POPT_MPLEV
Indicates that the MTP supports multiple priority levels.
.TP
SS7_POPT_MCSTA
Indicates that the MTP supports multiple congestion states.
.TP
SS7_POPT_TFR
Indicates that the MTP uses the old broadcast method for transfer-restricted
messages.
.TP
SS7_POPT_TFRB
Indicates that the MTP uses the new broadcast method for transfer-restricted
messages.
.TP
SS7_POPT_TFRR
Indicates that the MTP uses the new responsive method for transfer-restricted
messages.
.RE
.TP
.I sls
Specifies the current default signalling link selection (SLS) associated with
the stream.
.TP
.I mp
Specifies the current default message priority (MP) associated with the
stream.
.SS N_QOS_RANGE_INFO_MTP
.PP
This structure is used in the
.B N_INFO_ACK
primitive.  It is formatted as follows:

.RS
.nf
\fC\s-2\
#define N_QOS_RANGE_INFO_MTP    0x0804
typedef struct {
        ulong n_qos_type;               /* always N_QOS_RANGE_INFO_MTP */
        ulong sls_range;                /* signalling link selection mask */
        ulong mp_range;                 /* message priority mask */
} N_qos_range_info_mtp_t;
\s+2\fR
.fi
.RE
.TP
.I n_qos_type
Specifies the QOS structure type.  Always N_QOS_RANGE_INFO_MTP.
.TP
.I sls_range
Specifies the range, as a bit mask, of the signalling link selection (SLS)
values.  This is normally 4-, 5- or 8-bits, depending on the protocol variant.
.TP
.I mp_range
Specifies the range, as a bit mask, of the message priority (MP) values.  This
is normally 0- or 2-bits, depending on the protocol variant.  When
SS7_POPT_MPLEV and SS7_POPT_MCSTA are not set in the
.I popt
field of the
.B N_QOS_SEL_INFO_MTP
structure, this field is set to zero to indicate that zero message priority
bits are supported.
.SH "LOCAL MANAGEMENT INTERFACE"
.PP
.SS N_INFO_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.SS N_INFO_ACK
.PP
.TP
.I NSDU_size
The network service data unit size represents the maximum size MTP-User
service data unit size that can be guaranteed of being transported in a single
MTP MSU.
.TP
.I ENSDU_size
MTP does not support the concept of expedited data and this field will always
return
.BR N_INVALID.
.TP
.I CDATA_size
MTP does not support the concept of connection data and this field will always
return
.BR N_INVALID .
.TP
.I DDATA_size
MTP does not support the concept of disconnection data and this field will always
return
.BR N_INVALID .
.TP
.I ADDR_size
The maximum size of the MTP address.  This field will always return the size
of the
.B sockaddr_mtp
structure described above under
.IR "\*(lqADDRESS FORMAT\*(rq" .
.TP
.I ADDR_length, ADDR_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the address
to which the requesting stream is bound.  If the requesting stream is not
bound to an address, both fields will return zero (0).
.TP
.I QOS_length, QOS_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the QOS
parameters for the requesting stream.  For
.B MTP-NPI
this is an N_QOS_SEL_INFO_MTP structure.
.TP
.I QOS_range_length, QOS_range_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the QOS
parameter ranges for the requesting stream.
.TP
.I OPTIONS_flags
The options flags associated with the requesting stream.  Options flags are as
follows:
.RS
.TP
REC_CONF_OPT
This flag indicates receipt confirmation selection and support.
.B MTP-NPI
does not support receipt confirmation so this flag is not set.
.TP
EX_DATA_OPT
This flag indicates expedited data selection and support.
.B MTP-NPI
does not support expedited data so this flag is not set.
.TP
DEFAULT_RC_SEL
This flag indicates if default receipt confirmation is selected.
.B MTP-NPI
does not support receipt confirmation so this flag is not set.
.RE
.TP
.I NIDU_size
This is the maximum size of the interface data unit, which is the maximum size
of data which can be transferred across the interface in a single
.BR getmsg "(2) or " putmsg (2)
operation.  This size is always less than or equal to
.I NSDU_size
above.
.TP
.I SERV_type
The service type is one of the following:
.RS
.TP
N_CLNS
Connectionless service.  This is the normal service provided by the Message
Transfer Part and supported by
.BR MTP-NPI .
This value will always be returned when the stream is in an unbound state or
has been bound to a connectionless service indicator.
.TP
N_CONS
Connection-oriented service.
.B MTP-NPI
supports a pseudo connection-oriented service.  This value will be returned
when the stream is bound to a pseudo-connection oriented service indicator.
.RE
.TP
.I CURRENT_state
The current state of the service interface as described in
.BR tpi (7).
.TP
.I NODU_size
This is the optimal size of the interface data unit, which is the optimal size
of a network service data unit.
.TP
.I PROTOID_length, PROTOID_offset
The length and offset from the start of the message block of the protocol
identifiers (service indicators) to which the requesting stream is bound.  If
the requesting stream is not bound, these fields will return zero (0).
.TP
.I NPI_version
The version of the NPI interface.  This will normally be
.BR NPI_VERSION_2 .
.SS N_BIND_REQ
.PP
Requests that the requesting stream be bound to the provided protocol address
with the provided protocol options and protocol identifiers.  This service
primitive translates to a
.B MTP_BIND_REQ
primitive in the
.BR mtpi (7).
.TP
.I ADDR_length, ADDR_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_mtp
structure which contains the MTP address to bind.
.B MTP-NPI
requires that an address be present in this primitive and that the address
have all fields specified.
.B MTP-NPI
does not support \*(lqwildcard\*(rq bind addresses.
.TP
.I CONIND_number
Requested number of outstanding connection indications.  Because
.B MTP-NPI
does not support connection indications, the field will be ignored.
.TP
.I BIND_flags
.RS
.TP
DEFAULT_LISTENER
This flag indicates if this stream is the default listener.
Because
.B MTP-NPI
does not support listening streams, this flag is not set.
.TP
TOKEN_REQUEST
This flag indicates if a token should be assigned to the stream.
Because
.B MTP-NPI
does not support listening streams, this flag is not set.
.TP
DEFAULT_DEST
This flag indicates if this is the default destination stream.
When this flag is set, the stream will be used as a default destination stream
when no other stream is bound to the destination address.  This flag is only
significant in N_CLNS mode.
.RE
.TP
.I PROTOID_length, PROTOID_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the protocol
identifiers (service indicators) to which the requesting stream is to be
bound.
.SS N_BIND_ACK
.PP
.TP
.I ADDR_length, ADDR_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_mtp
structure which contains the MTP address that was bound.
.TP
.I CONIND_number
.B MTP-NPI
only supportes a pseudo-connection oriented service which is incapable of
supporting connection indications.  Therefore, this field always returns zero
(0).
.B MTP-NPI
does not support \*(lqwildcard\*(rq addresses.
.TP
.I TOKEN_value
The token value assigned to the stream if the
.B N_BIND_REQ
contained the flag
.B TOKEN_REQUEST
in the
.I BIND_flags
field.
.TP
.I PROTOID_length, PROTOID_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the protocol
identifiers (service indicators) to which the requesting stream was bound.
.SS N_UNBIND_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.SS N_OPTMGMT_REQ
.PP
Requests that the specified options be applied to the requesting stream.  See
section
.i "\*(lqQUALITY OF SERVICE PARAMETERS\*(rq"
for a description of the QOS parameters defined for
.BR MTP-NPI .
.TP
.I QOS_length, QOS_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the QOS
parameters structure.
.B MTP-NPI
uses the N_QOS_SEL_DATA_MTP structure.
.TP
.I OPTMGMT_flags
The options management flags contain one of the following options flags:
.RS
.TP
DEFAULT_RC_SEL
This flag indicates if default receipt confirmation is selected.
.B MTP-NPI
does not support receipt confirmation so this flag is not set.
.RE
.SS N_OK_ACK
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.SS N_ERROR_ACK
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.SH "PROTOCOL SERVICE INTERFACE"
.PP
.SS N_UNITDATA_REQ
.PP
For
.B N_CLNS
service type providers, the
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
is used to request the MTP-TRANSFER-REQ primitive.  Because there is no source
address in the
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
primitive, it is not possible to bind an
.B MTP-NPI
stream to more than one local address (e.g. \*(lqwildcard\*(rq bind).
.TP
.I DEST_length, DEST_offset
.SS N_UNITDATA_IND
.PP
For
.B N_CLNS
service type providers, the
.B N_UNITDATA_IND
is used to indicate the MTP-TRANSFER-IND primitive.  Because there is a
destination address in the
.B N_UNITDATA_IND
primitive, it is possible to bind an
.B MTP-NPI
stream to more than one local address for received messages (e.g.,
DEFAULT_DEST flag set in bind request).
.TP
.I SRC_length, SRC_offset
.TP
.I DEST_length, DEST_offset
.SS N_UDERROR_IND
.PP
For
.B N_CLNS
service type providers, the
.B N_UDERROR_IND
is used to indicate the MTP primitives: MTP-PAUSE-IND, MTP-RESUME-IND,
MTP-STATUS-IND, MTP-RESTART-BEGINS-IND and MTP-RESTART-COMPLETE-IND
primitives.  The fields of the
.B N_UDERROR_IND
primitive are interpreted as follows:
.TP
.I DEST_length, DEST_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
destination address to which the indication applies.  For responsive errors,
this is the MTP address that was included in the
.TP
.I ERROR_type
The error type associated with the indication.  For
.B MTP-NPI
the error type can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.I N_MTP_RESTARTED
The MTP provider has restarted.  The MTP-User can assume that all destinations
are available.
.TP
.I N_MTP_RESTARTING
The MTP provider is restarting.  The MTP-User can assume that all destinations
are unavailable.
.TP
.I N_MTP_USER_PART_UNKNOWN
The previous
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
that invoked this response contained a value of the service indicator
.I mtp_si
field of the address that was unknown at the remote signalling point
contained in the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address.
.TP
.I N_MTP_USER_PART_UNEQUIPPED
The previous
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
that invoked this response contained a value of the service indicator
.I mtp_si
field of the address that was unequipped at the remote signalling point
contained in the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address.
.TP
.I N_MTP_USER_PART_UNAVAILABLE
The previous
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
that invoked this response contained a value of the service indicator
.I mtp_si
field of the address that was unavailable at the remote signalling point
contained in the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address.
.TP
.I N_MTP_DEST_AVAILABLE, N_MTP_CLUS_AVAILABLE
Indicates that the remote signalling point (or cluster) identified by the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address is now available.  Note that this is not
actually an error condtion.
.TP
.I N_MTP_DEST_PROHIBITED, N_MTP_CLUS_PROHIBITED
Indicates that the remote signalling point (or cluster) identified by the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address is prohibited.  A prohibited destination can
be temporarily or permanently unavailable.  If the error indication is
responsive, the destination address indicated is the same as the
destination address provided to the
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
primitive to which this indication is given in response.
.TP
.I N_MTP_DEST_CONGESTED, N_MTP_DEST_CONGESTED
Indicates that the remote signalling point (or cluster) identified by the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address is congested at level
.IR \*(lqn\*(rq .
If the error indication is responsive, the destination address indicated is
the same as the destination address provided in the
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
primitive to which this indicaiton is given in reponse.
.RE
.SS N_CONN_REQ
.PP
Requests that the requesting stream be associated with only the remote
destination indicated in the primitive.
.TP
.I DEST_length, DEST_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_mtp
structure than contains the remote MTP address to which to associate the
stream.
.TP
.I CONN_flags
The connect flags can contain the following flags:
.RS
.TP
REC_CONF_OPT
This flag indicates receipt confirmation selection and support.
.B MTP-NPI
does not support receipt confirmation so this flag is not set.
.TP
EX_DATA_OPT
This flag indicates expedited data selection and support.
.B MTP-NPI
does not support expedited data so this flag is not set.
.RE
.TP
.I QOS_length, QOS_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the QOS
parameters associated with the request.  For
.B MTP-NPI
this is the N_QOS_SEL_CONN_MTP structure that contains the QOS parameters that
are to be assigned to the requesting stream.
.SS N_CONN_CON
.PP
Confirms that the responding address has been associated with the stream upon
which the confirmation is indicated.  The
.B N_CONN_CON
primitive is used to indicate the MTP-RESUME-IND and MTP-RESTART-COMPLETE-IND
MTP primitives.
.TP
.I RES_length, RES_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
.B sockaddr_mtp
structure that contains the responding remote MTP address to which the
association is confirmed on the stream.  For
.B MTP-NPI
this will always be the same as the destination address in the corresponding
.B N_CONN_REQ
primitive.
.TP
.I CONN_flags
The connect flags can contain the following flags:
.RS
.TP
REC_CONF_OPT
This flag indicates receipt confirmation selection and support.
.B MTP-NPI
does not support receipt confirmation so this flag is not set.
.TP
EX_DATA_OPT
This flag indicates expedited data selection and support.
.B MTP-NPI
does not support expedited data so this flag is not set.
.RE
.TP
.I QOS_length, QOS_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the QOS
parameters containing the N_QOS_SEL_CONN_MTP structure for the association.
These QOS parameter values can be changed with the
.B N_OPTMGMT_REQ
primitive.
.SS N_CONN_IND
This primitive is not supported by
.BR MTP-NPI .
.PP
.SS N_CONN_RES
This primitive is not supported by
.BR MTP-NPI .
.PP
.SS N_DATA_REQ
.PP
.TP
.I DATA_xfer_flags
.RS
.TP
N_MORE_DATA_FLAG
Specifies that the next
.B N_DATA_IND
primitive contains data belonging to the same NSDU.
.TP
N_RC_FLAG
Specifies that receipt confirmation is requested for the data.
.B MTP-NPI
does not support receipt confirmation so this flag will be clear.
.RE
.PP
.B Note:
The signalling link selection (SLS) and message priority (MP) that are
assigned to the outgoing message are the values associated with the stream.
If the MTP-User wishes to alter the SLS or MP values for a particular message,
it must be changed with the
.B N_OPTMGMT_REQ
primitive before the message, and changed back after the message in the same
manner.
.SS N_DATA_IND
.PP
.TP
.I DATA_xfer_flags
.RS
.TP
N_MORE_DATA_FLAG
Indicates that the next
.B N_DATA_IND
primitive contains data belonging to the same NSDU.
.TP
N_RC_FLAG
Indicates that receipt confirmation is requested for the data.
.B MTP-NPI
does not support receipt confirmation so this flag will be clear.
.RE
.PP
.B Note:
The signalling link selection (SLS) and message priority (MP) that were
assigned to the incoming message are lost and not retrievable by the MTP-User.
.SS N_EXDATA_REQ
.PP
This primitive is not supported by
.BR MTP-NPI .
.SS N_EXDATA_IND
.PP
This primitive is not supported by
.BR MTP-NPI .
.SS N_DATACK_REQ
.PP
This primitive is not supported by
.BR MTP-NPI .
.SS N_DATACK_IND
.PP
This primitive is not supported by
.BR MTP-NPI .
.SS N_RESET_REQ
.PP
This primitive is not supported by
.BR MTP-NPI .
.SS N_RESET_CON
.PP
This primitive is not supported by
.BR MTP-NPI .
.SS N_RESET_IND
.PP
Indicates that the connection has been reset and the reason for reset.
.TP
.I RESET_orig
Indicates the origin of the reset.  The reset origin can be one of the
following:
.RS
.TP
N_PROVIDER
Indicates that the origin of the reset is the local MTP provider.
.TP
N_USER
Inidcates that the origin of the reset is the remote MTP-User (or the remote
MTP acting on behalf of the remote MTP-User).
.TP
N_UNDEFINED
Indicates that the origin of the reset is not defined.
.RE
.TP
.I RESET_reason
Indicates the reason for the reset.  The reset reason can be one of the
following values, depending on the value of the
.IR RESET_orig :
.RS
.PP
When the
.I RESET_orig
is set to
.B N_PROVIDER
the following
.I RESET_reason
values apply:
.TP
.I N_MTP_RESTARTED
The MTP provider has restarted.  The MTP-User can assume that all destinations
are available.
.TP
.I N_MTP_RESTARTING
The MTP provider is restarting.  The MTP-User can assume that all destinations
are unavailable.
.PP
When the
.I RESET_orig
is set to
.B N_USER
the following
.I RESET_reason
values apply:
.TP
.I N_MTP_USER_PART_UNKNOWN
The previous
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
that invoked this response contained a value of the service indicator
.I mtp_si
field of the address that was unknown at the remote signalling point
contained in the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address.
.TP
.I N_MTP_USER_PART_UNEQUIPPED
The previous
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
that invoked this response contained a value of the service indicator
.I mtp_si
field of the address that was unequipped at the remote signalling point
contained in the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address.
.TP
.I N_MTP_USER_PART_UNAVAILABLE
The previous
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
that invoked this response contained a value of the service indicator
.I mtp_si
field of the address that was unavailable at the remote signalling point
contained in the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address.
.PP
When the
.I RESET_orig
is set to
.B N_UNDEFINED
the following
.I RESET_reason
values apply:
.TP
.I N_MTP_DEST_AVAILABLE, N_MTP_CLUS_AVAILABLE
Indicates that the remote signalling point (or cluster) identified by the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address is now available.  Note that this is not
actually an error condtion.
.TP
.I N_MTP_DEST_PROHIBITED, N_MTP_CLUS_PROHIBITED
Indicates that the remote signalling point (or cluster) identified by the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address is prohibited.  A prohibited destination can
be temporarily or permanently unavailable.  If the error indication is
responsive, the destination address indicated is the same as the
destination address provided to the
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
primitive to which this indication is given in response.
.TP
.I N_MTP_DEST_CONGESTED, N_MTP_DEST_CONGESTED
Indicates that the remote signalling point (or cluster) identified by the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address is congested at level
.IR \*(lqn\*(rq .
If the error indication is responsive, the destination address indicated is
the same as the destination address provided in the
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
primitive to which this indicaiton is given in reponse.
.RE
.SS N_RESET_RES
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR npi (7).
.SS N_DISCON_REQ
.PP
Requestst that the connection be disconnected and specifies the reason for
disconnect.
.TP
.I DISCON_reason
Specifies the reason for disconnect.  The disconnect reason can be one of the
following values:
.RS
.TP
.I N_MTP_USER_UNKNOWN
Specifies that the MTP should report to the remote MTP-User that the requested
MTP-User (service indicator) is unknown to the local MTP.
.TP
.I N_MTP_USER_UNEQUIPPED
Specifies that the MTP should report to the remote MTP-User that the requested
MTP-User (service indicator) is unequipped at the local MTP.
.TP
.I N_MTP_USER_UNAVAILABLE
Specifies that the MTP should report to the remote MTP-User that the requested
MTP-User (service indicator) is unavailable at the local MTP.
.TP
.I N_MTP_DEST_PROHIBITED
Specifies that the MTP should report to the remote MTP that the local MTP is
inaccessible.
.TP
.I N_MTP_DEST_CONGESTED
Specifies that the MTP should report to the remote MTP that the local MTP is
congested at level
.IR \*(lqn\*(rq .
.RE
.TP
.I RES_length, RES_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
responding address.  The responding address need only be included when the
stream is bound with the
.B DEFAULT_DEST
bind flag set.  When the address is included and the
.B DEFAULT_DEST
flag was not set on the bind, the responding address must match the bound
address.
.TP
.I SEQ_number
This field is not used by
.B MTP-NPI
and will always be coded zero (0).
.SS N_DISCON_IND
.PP
Indicates that the connection has been disconnected and the reason for
disconnect.
.TP
.I DISCON_orig
Indicates the origin of the disconnect.  The field can have one of the
following values:
.RS
.TP
N_PROVIDER
Indicates that the origin of the disconnect is the local MTP provider.
.TP
N_USER
Inidcates that the origin of the disconnect is the remote MTP-User (or the remote
MTP acting on behalf of the remote MTP-User).
.TP
N_UNDEFINED
Indicates that the origin of the disconnect is not defined.
.RE
.TP
.I DISCON_reason
Indicates the reason for the disconnect.  The disconnect reason can be one of
the following values, depending on the value of the
.IR DISCON_orig :
.RS
.PP
When the
.I DISCON_orig
is set to
.B N_PROVIDER
the following
.I DISCON_reason
values apply:
.TP
.I N_MTP_RESTARTED
The MTP provider has restarted.  The MTP-User can assume that all destinations
are available.
.TP
.I N_MTP_RESTARTING
The MTP provider is restarting.  The MTP-User can assume that all destinations
are unavailable.
.PP
When the
.I DISCON_orig
is set to
.B N_USER
the folowing
.I DISCON_reason
values apply:
.TP
.I N_MTP_USER_PART_UNKNOWN
The previous
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
that invoked this response contained a value of the service indicator
.I mtp_si
field of the address that was unknown at the remote signalling point
contained in the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address.
.TP
.I N_MTP_USER_PART_UNEQUIPPED
The previous
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
that invoked this response contained a value of the service indicator
.I mtp_si
field of the address that was unequipped at the remote signalling point
contained in the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address.
.TP
.I N_MTP_USER_PART_UNAVAILABLE
The previous
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
that invoked this response contained a value of the service indicator
.I mtp_si
field of the address that was unavailable at the remote signalling point
contained in the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address.
.PP
When the
.I DISCON_orig
is set to
.B N_UNDEFINED
the following
.I DISCON_reason
values apply:
.TP
.I N_MTP_DEST_AVAILABLE, N_MTP_CLUS_AVAILABLE
Indicates that the remote signalling point (or cluster) identified by the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address is now available.  Note that this is not
actually an error condtion.
.TP
.I N_MTP_DEST_PROHIBITED, N_MTP_CLUS_PROHIBITED
Indicates that the remote signalling point (or cluster) identified by the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address is prohibited.  A prohibited destination can
be temporarily or permanently unavailable.  If the error indication is
responsive, the destination address indicated is the same as the
destination address provided to the
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
primitive to which this indication is given in response.
.TP
.I N_MTP_DEST_CONGESTED, N_MTP_DEST_CONGESTED
Indicates that the remote signalling point (or cluster) identified by the
.IR mtp_ni " and " mtp_pc
fields of the destination address is congested at level
.IR \*(lqn\*(rq .
If the error indication is responsive, the destination address indicated is
the same as the destination address provided in the
.B N_UNITDATA_REQ
primitive to which this indicaiton is given in reponse.
.RE
.TP
.I RES_length, RES_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the message block of the
responding address which contains the address of the remote signalling point
to which connection has been refused.  A responding address need only be
included in the message if the responding address is different from the
address in the connection request.  This can occur in
.B MTP-NPI
when the responding address is a cluster address.  Where the responding
address is the same as the address in the connection request, the address may
be optionally excluded.  If the address is excluded, these fields return zero
(0).
.TP
.I SEQ_number
This field is not used by
.B MTP-NPI
and always return zero (0).
.SH "IOCTLS"
.PP
.B MTP-NPI
supports the NPI I/O controls described for
.BR npi (7).
In addition it supports the MTP management I/O controls described in
.BR mtp (7).
.SH "ERROR HANDLING"
.PP
Protocol errors are handled using the
.BR N_UDERROR_IND ", " N_RESET_IND " and " N_DISCON_IND
primitives described above.
.PP
Non-fatal errors are handled using the
.B N_ERROR_ACK
primitive as described in
.BR npi (7).
.PP
Fatal errors are handled using the STREAMS
.BR M_ERROR " or " M_HANGUP
primitives which result in the failure of all subsequent operations on the
stream.
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
The following protocol errors can be returned in the
.I ERROR_type
field of the
.B N_UDERROR_IND
primitive, or the
.I RESET_reason
field of the
.B N_RESET_IND
primitive, or the
.I DISCON_reason
field of the
.BR N_DISCON_REQ " or " N_DISCON_IND
primitives.
.TP
.B N_MTP_RESTARTED
The local MTP service provider has restarted.  All remote destinations are
considered inaccessible.
.TP
.B N_MTP_RESTARTING
The local MTP service provider is restarting.  All remote destinations are
considered accessible.
.TP
.B N_MTP_USER_PART_UNKNOWN
The remote MTP-User specified by the service indicator in the MTP address is
not known to the remote MTP.
.TP
.B N_MTP_USER_PART_UNEQUIPPED
The remote MTP-User specified by the service indicator in the MTP address is
unequipped at the remote MTP.
.TP
.B N_MTP_USER_PART UNAVAILABLE
The remote MTP-User specified by the service indicator in the MTP address is
inaccessible at the remote MTP.
.TP
.B N_MTP_DEST_AVAILABLE, N_MTP_CLUS_AVAILABLE
The remote MTP (cluster) as specified by the network indicator and point code
in the MTP address is now available.
.TP
.B N_MTP_DEST_PROHIBITED, N_MTP_CLUS_PROHIBITED
The remote MTP (cluster) as specified by the network indicator and point code
in the MTP address is now inaccessible.
.TP
.B N_MTP_DEST_CONGESTED, N_MTP_CLUS_CONGESTED
The remote MTP (cluster) as specified by the network indicator and point code
in the MTP address is now congested at level
.IR \*(lqn\*(rq .
.PP
Any of the non-fatal errors described in
.BR npi (7)
may also be returned in a
.B N_ERROR_ACK
primitive by
.BR MTP-NPI .
.PP
Any of the fatal errors described in
.BR npi (7)
may also be returned as an
.I errno
value in response to a read or write operation on the stream.
.SH "CAVEATS"
.PP
.B MTP-NPI
does not support the true concept of a connection-oriented service: it only
supports a pseudo-connection-oriented service.  The difference is that
.B MTP-NPI
does not support the concept of a connection indication and does not support
the
.BR N_CONN_IND " and " N_CONN_RES
primitives.
.PP
Establishing a connection to a remote MTP-User with the
.B N_CONN_REQ
primitive does not perform any protocol functions and only forms a local
association between the requesting stream and the remote MTP-User.
Confirmation of the pseudo-connection with the
.B N_CONN_CON
primitive is local and automatic.
Rejection of the connection request with the
.B N_DISCON_IND
primitive is also local and automatic.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
This interface conforms to NPI Revision 2.
.[
npi
.]
.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
The Network Provider Interface first appeared in SVR4.
.[
svr4
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
