'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sdli_2.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2006/04/05 09:43:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sdli_2.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:43:21  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SDLI 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI)" 

.SH "NAME"

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.SS "ADDRESS FORMATS"

.SS "DATA STRUCTURES"

SDLI defines four datastructures for protocol configuration, state, statistics
and event management.
.PP
.B "Protocol Configuration"

.RS
.sp
.nf
typedef struct sdl_config {
    sdl_ulong   pvar;
    sdl_ulong   popt;
    sdl_ulong   N;
} sdl_config_t;
.fi
.RE
.TP
.I pvar
.TP
.I popt
.TP
.I N

.PP
.B "Protocol State"

.RS
.sp
.nf
typedef struct sdl_statem {
    sdl_ulong   daedt_state;
    sdl_ulong   daedr_state;
    sdl_ulong   octet_counting_mode;
} sdl_statem_t;
.fi
.RE
.TP
.I daedt_state
.TP
.I daedr_state
.TP
.I octet_counting_mode


.PP
.B "Protocol Statistics"

.RS
.sp
.nf
typedef struct sdl_stats {
    sdl_ulong   bytes_transmitted;
    sdl_ulong   bytes_received;
} sdl_stats_t;
.fi
.RE
.TP
.I bytes_transmitting
.TP
.I bytes_received

.PP
.B "Protocol Events"

.RS
.sp
.nf
typedef struct sdl_events {
    sdl_ulong   notifications;
} sdl_events_t;
.fi
.RE
.TP
.I notifications



.SH "SYSCTLS"

The following sysctls can be accessed by the
\fB/proc/sys/ss7/conf/sdl/\fIlinkname\fB/\fR files or with the \fBsysctl\fR(8)
interface by prefixing \fBss7.conf.sdl.\fR\fIlinkname\fR to the sysctl name.
The \fBsysctl\fR(2) system call can also be used to affect these values with
the integer vector prefix \fI{ CTL_SS7, SS7_CONF, SS7_SDL }\fR.

Default values are really only default-default values, and can be changed by
changing the value in the \fB/proc/sys/ss7/conf/sdl/default/\fR files.
Default values will have an effect on all subsequently added SS7 signalling
data links; existing signalilng data links will be unaffected.  These default
values may also be changed with \fBsysctl\fR(8) by prefixing
\fBss7.conf.sdl.default\fR to the sysctl name.
The \fBsysctl\fR(2) system call can also be used to affect these values with
the integer vector prefix \fI{ CTL_SS7, SS7_CONF, SS7_SDL, SS7_DFLT }\fR.

.SH "STREAMS IO"

.SS "Local Management Primitives"

.SS "Protocol Service Primitives"

.SS "Protocol Management Primitives"

.SH "IOCTLS"

.SH "ERROR HANDLING"

.SH "ERRORS"

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.SH "CAVEATS"

.SH "BUGS"

.SH "RESTRICTIONS"

.SH "AUTHOR"

.SH "HISTORY"

.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
