'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: SDT_DAEDT_TRANSMISSION_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/07/21 20:15:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/07/21 20:15:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: SDT_DAEDT_TRANSMISSION_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/07/21 20:15:12  brian
.\" - added documentation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SDT_DAEDT_TRANSMISSION_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI)"
.SH NAME
.B SDT_DAEDT_TRANSMISSION_REQ, sdt_daedt_transmission_req_t
\- transmission request primitive
\"
\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The DAEDT transmission request service primitive consists of zero or one
.B M_PROTO (9)
message block, followed by one or more
.B M_DATA (9)
message blocks containing the signal unit to transmit.  The
.B M_PROTO (9)
mesage block, when present, is structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    sdt_long sdt_primitive;
} sdt_daedt_transmission_req_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The DAEDT transmission request service primitive is originated by the SDTS user
to request that the SDTS provider trasnmit a signal unit on the medium.  A
signal unit is a self-contained packet of data containing an integer number of
octets of information.  This primitive is a request from the Transmission
Control (TXC) function in the SDTS user to the DAEDT function in the SDTS
provider.
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
The DAEDT transmission request service primitive contains the following
parameters:
.TP
.I sdt_primitive
Specifies the service primitive type.  Always
.BR SDT_DAEDT_TRANSMISSION_REQ .
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is only valid in the
.B LMI_ENABLED
management state with the
DAEDT in the
.B IN-SERVICE
state.
.\"
.SS "New State"
.PP
The new state is unchanged.
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is issued by the SDTS User.
.\"
.SS Rules
.PP
The SDTS user must observe the following rules when issuing the DAEDT
transmission request service primitive:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
This primitive should only be issued by the SDTS provider after the
transmitters have been enabled with a
.BR SDT_DAEDT_START_REQ (7)
and the DAEDT is
in the
.B IN-SERVICE
state.
.IP \(em
After the transmitter have been enabled while in the
.B LMI_ENABLED
management state, the DAEDT state is always appropriate for the SDTS user to
issue this primitive.
.IP \(em
The
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is optional.  The SDTS provider will be prepared to accept
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks from the SDTS user, without any
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block, as service primitive of this type.
.IP \(em
Most narrowband SS7 SDTS providers peform what is known as SU repetition.
When SUs that correspond to FISUs (Fill-In Signal Units) or LSSUs (Link Status
Signal Units) which are sent continuously on the signalling link, the SDTS
user need only send the first such signal unit.  The SDTS provider will
continuously repeat a FISU or LSSU, when appropriate,(1) until the next signal
unit is presented for transmission.  To perform this function, a narrowband
SS7 SDTS provider must know the protocol options associated with the
signalling link (i.e. the size of the sequence numbers and length indicator).
.IP ""
Activate or deactivation of "SU Repeating" is a provider-specific function.
.\"
.SS Response
.PP
This primitive does not require receipt acknowledgement.
.IP \(en \w'\(en\(em'u
.B Successful:
When successful, the primitive does not require receipt acknowledgement.  The
link state is unchanged.
.IP \(en
.B Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):
When unsuccessful, the SDTS provider negatively acknowledges the primitive
using a
.BR LMI_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive containing the error and reason for failure.
The state remains unchanged.
.\"
.SS Errors
.PP
.PP
.B Non-Fatal Errors:
applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:
.TP \w'\fBLMI_LAN_COLLISIONS\fR\(em'u
.B LMI_UNSPEC
Unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B LMI_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.
.TP
.B LMI_DISC
Disconnected.
.TP
.B LMI_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.
.TP
.B LMI_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.
.TP
.B LMI_INITFAILED
Link initialization failed.
.TP
.B LMI_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.
.TP
.B LMI_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from invalid state.
.TP
.B LMI_PROTOSHORT
.BR M_PROTO (9)
block too short.
.TP
.B LMI_SYSERR
UNIX system error.
.TP
.B LMI_DEVERR
Start of device-specific error codes.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for Q.702 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ANSI T1.111.2 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ETSI ETS 300 008-1 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sdti.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sdti (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for
.BR "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" .
The Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.2 .
This is
.I Version 1
of the SDTI interface.
.[
sdti
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
