'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: SL_LINK_CONGESTED_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/07/21 20:15:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/07/21 20:15:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: SL_LINK_CONGESTED_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/07/21 20:15:13  brian
.\" - added documentation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SL_LINK_CONGESTED_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Signalling Link Interface (SLI)"
.SH NAME
.B SL_LINK_CONGESTED_IND, sl_link_cong_ind_t
\- link congested indication primitive
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The link congested indication service primitive consists of one
.BR M_PROTO "(9) or " M_PCPROTO (9)
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    sl_long sl_primitive;
    sl_ulong sl_timestamp;
    sl_ulong sl_cong_status;            /* congestion status */
    sl_ulong sl_disc_status;            /* discard status */
} sl_link_cong_ind_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The link congested indication service primitive provides the SLS provider with
the ability to inidicate link transmit congestion onset at a congestion level
to the SLS user.
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
The link congested indication service primitive contains the following
parameters:
.TP
.I sl_primitive
Indicates the service primitive type.  Always
.BR SL_LINK_CONGESTED_IND .
.TP
.I sl_timestamp
Indicates the time at which the change in congestion status occurred.  This is
UNIX time from epoch timestamp in milliseconds.
.TP
.I sl_cong_status
Indicates the congestion status.  The congestion status is the maximum level
at which transmit congestion onset has occurred.  This field is
provider-specific but can typically take on a value from 0 to 3.  The SLS user
should signal congestion to the senders of messages with message priority less
than the congestion status but should not discard messages of that priority.
.TP
.I sl_disc_status
Indicates the discard status.  The discard status is the maximum level at
which transmit congestion discard has occurred.  This field is
provider-specific but can typically take on a value from 0 to 3.  The SLS user
should signal congestion to senders of message with message priority less than
the discard status and should also discard messages of that priority.
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is only issued in the
.B LMI_ENABLED
management state and the
.B SL_STATE_IN_SERVICE
link state.
.\"
.SS "New State"
.PP
The management and link state remain unchanged.
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is issued by the SLS Provider.
.\"
.SS Rules
.PP
The SLS provider observes the following rules when issuing the link congested
indication service primitive:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The service primitive is only issued from the
.B SL_STATE_IN_SERVICE
link
state.
.IP \(em
The service primitive is only issued from the
.B LMI_ENABLED
management state.
.IP \(em
The service primitive is only issued when the congestion status or discard
status increases from the value that was last indicated with either a
.BR SL_LINK_CONGESTION_IND "(7) or " SL_LINK_CONGESTION_CEASED_IND (7)
primitive.
.\"
.SS Response
.PP
The SLS user upon receiving this primitive should avoid sending messages of
message priority less than the transmit congestion status, and must not send
messages of message priority less than the discard status.  The SLS provider
does not actually discard messages with message priority less than the discard
status: it is the responsibility of the SLS user to discard lower priority
messages.
.PP
Typically the SLS user is the SS7 Message Transfer Part.  The SS7 MTP issues
congestion indications to local MTP-Users and issues transfer-controlled
messages to sending signalling points when transmit congestion onset occurs.
When transmit congestion discard occurs, the SS7 MTP continues to issue
congestion indications to local MTP-User and transfer-controlled message to
sending signalling points, but also discards messages with insufficient
priority for the discard level.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for Q.703 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ANSI T1.111.3 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ETSI ETS 300 008-1 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sli.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sli_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for
.BR "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" .
The Signalling Link Interface (SLI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.2 .
This is
.I Version 1
of the SLI interface.
.[
sli
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
