'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: SL_OPTMGMT_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-29 07:10:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: SL_OPTMGMT_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-29 07:10:28  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/07/21 20:15:14  brian
.\" - added documentation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SL_OPTMGMT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Signalling Link Interface (SLI)"
.SH NAME
.B SL_OPTMGMT_REQ, sl_optmgmt_req_t
\- options management request primitive
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The link option management request service primitive consists of one
.BR M_PROTO "(9) or " M_PCPROTO (9)
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    lmi_long lmi_primitive;
    lmi_ulong lmi_opt_length;
    lmi_ulong lmi_opt_offset;
    lmi_ulong lmi_mgmt_flags;
} lmi_optmgmt_req_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This SLS user originated primitive requests that the SLS provider options be
managed.
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
The link option management request service primitive contains the following
parameters:
.TP
.I lmi_primitive
Specifies the service primitive type.  Always
.BR SL_OPTMGMT_REQ .
.TP
.I lmi_opt_length
Specifies the length of the options.
.TP
.I lmi_opt_offset
Specifies the offset, from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block, of the start of the options.
.TP
.I lmi_mgmt_flags
Specifies the management flags which determine what operation the LMS provider
is expected to perform on the specified options.  This field can assume one of
the following values:
.sp
.RS
.TP
.B LMI_NEGOTIATE
Negotiate the specified value of each specified option and return the
negotiated value.
.TP
.B LMI_CHECK
Check the validity of the specified value of each specified option
and return the result.  Do not alter the current value assumed by the
LMS provider.
.TP
.B LMI_DEFAULT
Return the default value for the specified options (or all options).
Do not alter the current value assumed by the LMS provider.
.TP
.B LMI_CURRENT
Return the current value for the specified options (or all options).
Do not alter the current value assumed by the LMS provider.
.RE
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid in any state where a local acknowledgement is not
pending.
.\"
.SS "New State"
.PP
The new state remains unchanged.
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is issued by the SLS User.
.\"
.SS Response
.PP
The link option management request service primitive requires the LMS provider
to acknowledge receipt of the primitive as follows:
.IP \(en \w'\(en\(em'u
.B Successful:
Upon success, the LMS provider acknowledges receipt of the service primitive
and successful completion of the link options management service with an
.BR SL_OPTMGMT_ACK (7)
primitive containing the link options management result.  The state remains
unchanged.
.IP \(en
.B Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):
Upon failure, the LMS provider acknowledges receipt of the service primitive
and failure to complete the link options management service with an
.BR LMI_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive containing the error.  The state remains unchanged.
.\"
.SS Errors
.PP
.B Non-Fatal Errors:
applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:
.TP \w'\fBLMI_LAN_COLLISIONS\fR\(em'u
.B LMI_UNSPEC
Unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B LMI_BADADDRESS
Address was invalid.
.TP
.B LMI_BADADDRTYPE
Invalid address type.
.TP
.B LMI_BADDIAL
(Not used.)
.TP
.B LMI_BADDIALTYPE
(Not used.)
.TP
.B LMI_BADDISPOSAL
Invalid disposal parameter.
.TP
.B LMI_BADFRAME
Defective SDU received.
.TP
.B LMI_BADPPA
Invalid PPA identifier.
.TP
.B LMI_BADPRIM
Unrecognized primitive.
.TP
.B LMI_DISC
Disconnected.
.TP
.B LMI_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.
.TP
.B LMI_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.
.TP
.B LMI_INITFAILED
Link initialization failed.
.TP
.B LMI_NOTSUPP
Primitive not supported by this device.
.TP
.B LMI_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from invalid state.
.TP
.B LMI_PROTOSHORT
.BR M_PROTO (9)
block too short.
.TP
.B LMI_SYSERR
UNIX system error.
.TP
.B LMI_WRITEFAIL
Unitdata request failed.
.TP
.B LMI_CRCERR
CRC or FCS error.
.TP
.B LMI_DLE_EOT
DLE EOT detected.
.TP
.B LMI_FORMAT
Format error detected.
.TP
.B LMI_HDLC_ABORT
Aborted frame detected.
.TP
.B LMI_OVERRUN
Input overrun.
.TP
.B LMI_TOOSHORT
Frame too short.
.TP
.B LMI_INCOMPLETE
Partial frame received.
.TP
.B LMI_BUSY
Telephone was busy.
.TP
.B LMI_NOANSWER
Connection went unanswered.
.TP
.B LMI_CALLREJECT
Connection rejected.
.TP
.B LMI_HDLC_IDLE
HDLC line went idle.
.TP
.B LMI_HDLC_NOTIDLE
HDLC link no longer idle.
.TP
.B LMI_QUIESCENT
Line being reassigned.
.TP
.B LMI_RESUMED
Line has been reassigned.
.TP
.B LMI_DSRTIMEOUT
Did not see DSR in time.
.TP
.B LMI_LAN_COLLISIONS
LAN excessive collisions.
.TP
.B LMI_LAN_REFUSED
LAN message refused.
.TP
.B LMI_LAN_NOSTATION
LAN no such station.
.TP
.B LMI_LOSTCTS
Lost Clear to Send signal.
.TP
.B LMI_DEVERR
Start of device-specific error codes.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for Q.703 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ANSI T1.111.3 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ETSI ETS 300 008-1 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sli.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sli_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for
.BR "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" .
The Signalling Link Interface (SLI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.2 .
This is
.I Version 1
of the SLI interface.
.[
sli
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
