'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: SL_RETRIEVAL_REQUEST_AND_FSNC_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/07/21 20:15:14 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/07/21 20:15:14 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: SL_RETRIEVAL_REQUEST_AND_FSNC_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/07/21 20:15:14  brian
.\" - added documentation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SL_RETREIVAL_REQUEST_AND_FSNC_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Signalling Link Interface (SLI)"
.SH NAME
.B SL_RETREIVAL_REQUEST_AND_FSNC_REQ, sl_retrieval_req_and_fsnc_t
\- retrieval request and FSNC request primitive
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The retrieval request and FSNC request service primitive consists of one
.BR M_PROTO "(9) or " M_PCPROTO (9)
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    sl_long sl_primitive;
    sl_ulong sl_fsnc;
} sl_retrieval_req_and_fsnc_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The retrieval request and FSNC request service primitive is originated by the
SLS user when it wishes to update the retransmission buffer with the last known
acknowledged message (FSNC).  The last known acknowledged message is acquired
by the SLS user with the sequence changeover procedure of the message transfer
part.  The primitive requests that the SLS provider update the retransmission
buffer and then deliver the contents of the updated retransmission buffer and
transmit buffers to the SLS user.
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
The retrieval request and FSNC request service primitive contains the following
parameters:
.TP
.I sl_primitive
Specifies the service primitive type.  Always
.BR SL_RETRIEVAL_REQUEST_AND_FSNC_REQ .
.TP
.I sl_fsnc
Specifies the value of the FSNC (forward sequence number confirmed).  This is
the last known message to be acknowledge by the remote SLS provider.  The
format of the FSNC is provider-specific, but is typically a 7-bit or 12-bit
sequence number.
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is only valid in management state
.B LMI_ENABLED
and is valid in
link state
.BR SL_STATE_OUT_OF_SERVICE .
.\"
.SS "New State"
.PP
The new state remains unchanged.
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is issued by the SLS User.
.\"
.SS Response
.PP
The retrieval request and FSNC request service primitive request the SLS
provider to acknowledge the result of the retrieval action as follows:
.IP \(en \w'\(en\(em'u
.B Successful retrieval:
When successful, the SLS provider indicates the updated contents of the
retransmission buffer and the contents of the transmission buffer using the
.BR SL_RETRIEVED_MESSAGE_IND (7)
primitive followed by a
.BR SL_RETRIEVAL_COMPLETE_IND (7)
primitive.  The state remains unchanged.
.IP \(en
.B Unsuccessful retrieval:
When unsuccessful, the SLS provider indicates failure to retrieve the contents
of the buffers with the
.BR SL_RETRIEVAL_NOT_POSSIBLE_IND (7)
primitive.
.IP \(en
.B Non-fatal errors:
When a non-fatal error occurs, the SLS provider indicates the error using the
.BR LMI_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive containing the error and the reason.  The state remains unchanged.
.PP
When the management stat is
.B LMI_ENABLED
and the link state is other than
.BR SL_STATE_OUT_OF_SERVICE ,
the SLS provider should respond with
.BR SL_RETRIEVAL_NOT_POSSIBLE_IND (7)
instead of generating a non-fatal error.
.\"
.SS Errors
.PP
Most SLS providers are always successful in retrieving the updated contents of
the retransmission buffer and transmission buffer.  Applicable reasons for
failing to retrieve the updated buffer contents are as follows:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
Hardware failure.
.IP 2.
The signalling link is in the incorrect link state (e.g. the in-service
state).
.IP 3.
The specified value of FSNC does not match and is not adjacent to a message
contained in the retransmission buffer.
.PP
.B Non-Fatal Errors:
applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:
.TP \w'\fBLMI_LAN_COLLISIONS\fR\(em'u
.B LMI_UNSPEC
Unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B LMI_DISC
Disconnected.
.TP
.B LMI_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.
.TP
.B LMI_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.
.TP
.B LMI_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from invalid state.
.TP
.B LMI_PROTOSHORT
.BR M_PROTO (9)
block too short.
.TP
.B LMI_SYSERR
UNIX system error.
.TP
.B LMI_DEVERR
Start of device-specific error codes.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for Q.703 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ANSI T1.111.3 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ETSI ETS 300 008-1 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sli.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sli_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for
.BR "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" .
The Signalling Link Interface (SLI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.2 .
This is
.I Version 1
of the SLI interface.
.[
sli
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
