'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: SL_RETRIEVAL_COMPLETE_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/07/21 20:15:14 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/07/21 20:15:14 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: SL_RETRIEVAL_COMPLETE_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/07/21 20:15:14  brian
.\" - added documentation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SL_RETRIEVAL_COMPLETE_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Signalling Link Interface (SLI)"
.SH NAME
.B SL_RETRIEVAL_COMPLETE_IND, sl_retrieval_comp_ind_t
\- retrieval complete indication primitive
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The retrieval complete indication service primitive consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block and zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks containing the last retrieved message signal unit in the same
format as it was presented to the SLS provider for transmission.  The
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    sl_long sl_primitive;
    sl_ulong sl_mp;
} sl_retrieval_comp_ind_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The retrieval complete indication service primitive is originated by the SLS
provider to indicate the completion of transfer of the contents of the updated
retransmission buffer and transmission buffer to the SLS user.  The primitive
is issued in response to a
.BR SL_RETRIEVAL_REQUEST_AND_FSNC_REQ (7)
primitive issued
by the SLS user.
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
The retrieval complete indication service primitive contains the following
parameters:
.TP
.I sl_primitive
Indicates the service primitive type.  Always
.BR SL_RETRIEVAL_COMPLETE_IND .
.TP
.I sl_mp
When accompanied by
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks containing the last retrieved message signal unit, the
.I sl_mp
field indicates the message priority for that message that was specified in
the
.BR SL_PDU_REQ (7)
primitive from the SLSL user when the message was submitted for transmission.
Message priorities are provider-specific, but are typically between 0 and 3.
This message priority field is only applicable to SS7 protocol variants that
place message priority bits in a field of the Level 2 header, such as TTC.
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is only issued in management state
.B LMI_ENABLED
and link state
.BR SL_STATE_OUT_OF_SERVICE .
.\"
.SS "New State"
.PP
The new state remains unchanged.
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is issued by the SLS Provider.
.\"
.SS Rules
.PP
The SLS provider observes the following rules when issuing a retrieval complete
indication service primitive:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The primitive is only issued from the
.B LMI_ENABLED
management state and the
.B SL_STATE_OUT_OF_SERVICE
link state.
.IP \(em
The primitive is only issued in response to an outstanding
.BR SL_RETRIEVAL_REQUEST_AND_FSNC_REQ 7)
primitive when transfer of the updated retransmission buffer and transmission
buffer is complete.
.IP \(em
A message signal unit is not attached to the primitive in
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks when the updated retransmission and transmission buffers were
empty.
.IP \(em
Attaching the last retrieved message to the primitive in
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks is optional and not recommended: the
.BR SL_RETRIEVED_MESSAGE_IND (7)
primitive should be used to transfer all retrieved message signal units first.
.IP \(em
Upon receipt of the retrieval complete indication service primitive, the SLS
user will consider the retrieval operation complete.
.\"
.SS Response
.PP
This primitive does not require a response from the SLS user.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for Q.703 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ANSI T1.111.3 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ETSI ETS 300 008-1 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sli.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sli_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for
.BR "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" .
The Signalling Link Interface (SLI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.2 .
This is
.I Version 1
of the SLI interface.
.[
sli
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
