'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: SL_RETRIEVE_BSNT_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-29 07:10:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: SL_RETRIEVE_BSNT_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-29 07:10:28  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/07/21 20:15:14  brian
.\" - added documentation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SL_RETRIEVE_BSNT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Signalling Link Interface (SLI)"
.SH NAME
.B SL_RETRIEVE_BSNT_REQ, sl_retrieve_bsnt_req_t
\- retrieve BSNT request primitive
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The retrieve BSNT request service primitive consists of one
.BR M_PROTO "(9) or " M_PCPROTO (9)
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    sl_long sl_primitive;
} sl_retrieve_bsnt_req_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The retrieve BSNT request service primitive allows the SLS user to request
retrieval of the BSNT (backward sequence number transmitted) which indicates
the sequence number of the remove message signal unit sent that was last
acknowledged.  This function is necessary to properly generate or respond to a
sequenced changeover procedure by the SLS user.
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
The retrieve BSNT request service primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I sl_primitive
Specifies the service primitive type.  Always
.BR SL_RETRIEVE_BSNT_REQ .
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is valid only in the
.B LMI_ENABLED
management state.  The
primitive is valid in the
.B SL_STATE_OUT_OF_SERVICE
state.
.\"
.SS "New State"
.PP
The new state is unchanged.
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is issued by the SLS User.
.\"
.SS Rules
.PP
The SLS user should observe the following rules when issuing the retrieve BSNT
request service primitive:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The SLS user should ensure that the link is in the
.B SL_STATE_OUT_OF_SERVICE
state before issuing this primitive.  One easy way to ensure that the link is
in this state is to issue the stop request
.BR SL_STOP_REQ (7).
.\"
.SS Response
.PP
This service primitive requires the SLS provider to acknowledge success of
failure of the retrieval operation.
.IP \(en \w'\(en\(em'u
.B Successful retrieval:
When successful, the SLS provider indicate the retrieved BSNT value using the
.BR SL_BSNT_IND (7)
primitive containing the BSNT value.  The management and link
states remain the same.
.IP \(en
.B Unsuccessful retrieval:
When unsuccessful, the SLS provider indicates that the BSNT value cannot be
retrieved using the
.BR SL_BSNT_NOT_RETRIEVABLE_IND (7).
The management and link states remain the same.
.IP \(en
.B Non-fatal errors:
When a non-fatal error occurs, the SLS provider indicates the error using the
.BR LMI_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive containing the error and the reason.
.PP
When the management state is
.B LMI_ENABLED
and the link state is other than
.BR SL_STATE_OUT_OF_SERVICE ,
the SLS provider should respond with
.BR SL_BSNT_NOT_RETRIEVABLE_IND (7)
instead of generating a non-fatal error.
.\"
.SS Errors
.PP
Most SLS providers are always successful in retrieving the BSNT value.
Applicable reasons for failing to retrieve the BSNT value are as follows:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
Hardware failure.
.IP 2.
The signalling link is in the incorrect state (e.g. the in-service state).
.PP
.B Non-Fatal Errors:
applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:
.TP \w'\fBLMI_LAN_COLLISIONS\fR\(em'u
.B LMI_UNSPEC
Unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B LMI_DISC
Disconnected.
.TP
.B LMI_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.
.TP
.B LMI_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.
.TP
.B LMI_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from invalid state.
.TP
.B LMI_PROTOSHORT
.BR M_PROTO (9)
block too short.
.TP
.B LMI_SYSERR
UNIX system error.
.TP
.B LMI_DEVERR
Start of device-specific error codes.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for Q.703 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ANSI T1.111.3 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ETSI ETS 300 008-1 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sli.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sli_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for
.BR "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" .
The Signalling Link Interface (SLI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.2 .
This is
.I Version 1
of the SLI interface.
.[
sli
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
