'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: SL_START_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/07/21 20:15:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/07/21 20:15:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: SL_START_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/07/21 20:15:15  brian
.\" - added documentation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SL_START_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Signalling Link Interface (SLI)"
.SH NAME
.B SL_START_REQ, sl_start_req_t
\- start request primitive
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The start request service primitive consists of one
.BR M_PROTO "(9) or " M_PCPROTO (9)
message block, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    sl_long sl_primitive;
} sl_start_req_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The start request service primitive allows the SLS user to request that a
signalling link be aligned and brought into service by the SLS provider.
.\"
.SS Parameters
.PP
The start request service primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I sl_primitive
Specifies the service primitive type.  Always
.BR SL_START_REQ .
.\"
.SS State
.PP
This primitive is only valid in management state
.BR LMI_ENABLED .
This primitive is valid in link state
.BR SL_STATE_OUT_OF_SERVICE .
.\"
.SS "New State"
.PP
The new link state is
.BR SL_STATE_INITIAL_ALIGNMENT .
.\"
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is issued in all modes.
.\"
.SS Originator
.PP
This primitive is issued by the SLS User.
.\"
.SS Response
.PP
The start request service primitive requires a response from the SLS provider
indicating the success or failure of the start request.
.IP \(en \w'\(en\(em'u
.B Successful link start
When successful, the SLS provider indicates success with the
.BR SL_IN_SERVICE_IND (7)
primitive indicating that the signalling link has been brought into service.
A significant delay in time might exist between the request and the in-service
indication.  This results in the
.B SL_STATE_IN_SERVICE
link state.
.IP \(en
.B Unuccessful link start:
When unsuccessful, the SLS provider indicates failure to bring the link
in-service with the
.BR SL_OUT_OF_SERVICE_IND (7)
primitive, containing the reason for failure.  This results int the
.B SL_STATE_OUT_OF_SERVICE
link state.
.IP \(en
.B Non-fatal errors:
Non-fatal errors are indicated by the SLS provider using the
.BR LMI_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive with the error number and reason contained.
.\"
.SS Errors
.PP
Applicable reasons for unsuccessful link start are as follows:
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_UNSPECIFIED
The signalling link failed for an unspecified reason.
.PD 0
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_CONG_TIMEOUT
The signalling link failed because of congestion timeout (T6 expiry).
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_ACK_TIMEOUT
The signalling link failed because of acknowledgement timeout (T7 expiry).
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_ABNORMAL_BSNR
The signalling link failed because of receipt of an abnormal backward
sequence number (BSNR).
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_ABNORMAL_FIBR
The signalling link failed because of receipt of an abnormal forward
indicator bit (FIBR).
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_SUERM_EIM
The signalling link failed because the SUERM or EIM error rate threshold
was exceeded.
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_ALIGNMENT_NOT_POSSIBLE
The signalling link failed because the AERM threshold was exceeded and the
maximum number of proving periods was exceeded.
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_RECEIVED_SIO
The signalling link failed due to receipt of an SIO during or after
alignment.
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_RECEIVED_SIN
The signalling link failed due to receipt of an SIN after proving.
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_RECEIVED_SIE
The signalling link failed due to receipt of an SIE after proving.
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_RECEIVED_SIOS
The signalling link failed due to receipt of an SIOS.
.TP
.B SL_FAIL_T1_TIMEOUT
The signalling link failed due to failure to align with remote (T1
timeout).
.PD
.PP
.B Non-Fatal Errors:
applicable non-fatal errors are as follows:
.TP \w'\fBLMI_LAN_COLLISIONS\fR\(em'u
.B LMI_UNSPEC
Unknown or unspecified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B LMI_DISC
Disconnected.
.TP
.B LMI_EVENT
Protocol-specific event occurred.
.TP
.B LMI_FATALERR
Device has become unusable.
.TP
.B LMI_OUTSTATE
Primitive was issued from invalid state.
.TP
.B LMI_PROTOSHORT
.BR M_PROTO (9)
block too short.
.TP
.B LMI_SYSERR
UNIX system error.
.TP
.B LMI_DEVERR
Start of device-specific error codes.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTES
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for Q.703 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ANSI T1.111.3 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Rules for ETSI ETS 300 008-1 Conformance"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sli.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sli_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for
.BR "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" .
The Signalling Link Interface (SLI) is specific to
.B OpenSS7
and first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.2 .
This is
.I Version 1
of the SLI interface.
.[
sli
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
