'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: slsi.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: slsi.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:21  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SLSI 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Signalling Link Set Interface (SLSI)"
.SH "NAME"
slsi \- Signalling System No. 7 Signalling Link Set (SLS) Interface
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <ss7/slsi.h>
.B #include <ss7/slsi_ioctl.h>
.sp
\fIfd\fB = open ("\fI/dev/sls\fB", \fIflags\fB);
\fIret\fB = ioctl(\fIfd\fB, \fIcmd\fB, ... /* \fIarg\fB */ );
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This man page describes the STREAMS interface which is used to configure and
exchange data with an SS7 Signalling Link Set Interface (SLSI) for all SS7 devices
conforming to the \fIOpenSS7\fR Signalling Link Set Interface (SLSI) specification.
.SS "LOCAL MANAGEMENT INTERFACE"
.PP
SLSI drivers are normally linked using \fBstreamio\fR(2) \fBI_LINK\fR ioctl
commands under a Message Transfer Part (MTP) STREAMS multiplexor conforming to
the Message Transfer Part Interface (MTPI) specification \fBmtpi\fR(7) such as
\fBmtp\fR(8), by the SS7 Configuration Daemon \fBss7d\fR(8).  Yet, this
interface is available for the purpose of ferry-clip conformance and
diagnostic testing of the SS7 Signalling Link Set.
.PP
SLSI multiplexors may be configured to automatically link under the
\fBmtp\fR(8) multiplexor and appear as \fBmtpi\fR(7) modules.  Not all SS7
drivers need be written to the SLS or lower interfaces: drivers may be written
even to the \fBmtpi\fR(7) interface.
.PP
SLSI provides a local management interface which utilizes \fBM_PROTO\fR and
\fBM_PCPROTO\fR messages which can be exchanged with the interface using
\fBputmsg\fR(2) and \fBgetmsg\fR(2) system calls on the stream head once the
interface is opened.  The local management interfae controls local management
(STREAMS configuration functions) which are normally used by the SS7
Configuration Daemon \fBss7d\fR(8) on the driver interface before linking
under an \fBmtp\fR(8) multiplexor.
.PP
The Local Management Interface (LMI) is common to all \fIOpenSS7\fR drivers
and modules and is described in detail in \fBlmi\fR(7).
.SS "DEVICE CONTROL INTERFACE"
.PP
SLSI provides a device control interface which utilizes \fBioctl\fR(2)
transparent calls or an \fBI_STR\fR ioctl under \fBstreamio\fR(2) from a
stream head or multiplexor control channel to the driver.  The device control
interface controls aspects of the SLS driver device which are outside the scope
of the SS7 protocol.  These controls are normally issued by the SS7
Configuration Daemon \fBss7d\fR(8) on the driver interface or multiplexor
control channel before or after the protocol stack has been assembled.
.PP
The device control interface (DEVI) is common to all \fIOpenSS7\fR drivers and
modules and is described in detail in \fBdevi\fR(7).
.SS "PROTOCOL SERVICE INTERFACE"
.PP
SLSI provides a protocol service interface which uses \fBM_DATA\fR,
\fBM_PROTO\fR and \fBM_PCPROTO\fR STREAMS messages which can be exchanged with
\fBwrite\fR(2), \fBread\fR(2), \fBputmsg\fR(2) or \fBgetmsg\fR(2) system calls
on the stream head, or which can be exchanged with the driver by upstream
pushed or linked modules.  The protocol service interface exchanges SS7
protocol service primitives between the Signalling Link Set (SLS) and the
Signalling Link Set (SLS), but may also be used for ferry-clip conformance
testing or diagnostics.
.PP
The protocol service interface for SLSI is described in detail in section
\fIPROTOCOL SERVICE INTERFACE\fR, below.
.SS "PROTOCOL MANAGEMENT INTERFACE"
.PP
SLSI provides a protocol mangement interface which uses \fBM_CTL\fR messages
between modules or \fBM_IOCTL\fR messages from a stream head or multiplexor
control channel.  This interface uses the controls defined in the Local
Management Interface (LMI) as detailed under
\fIINPUT OUTPUT CONTROL INTERFACE\fR in \fBlmi\fR(7).  The protocol management
interface provides protocol configuration, state inquiry, statistics and event
management (SNMP functions).  This interface is normally used by the SS7
Configuration Daemon \fBss7d\fR(8) on the stream after opening or during
operation.
.PP
The protocol service interface for SLSI is described in detail in section
\fIPROTOCOL MANAGEMENT INTERFACE\fR below.

.SH "PROTOCOL SERVICE INTERFACE"
.PP
Protocol service interface commands are from the stream head to the SLS driver
using \fBputmsg\fR(2) and \fBgetmsg\fR(2) commands as follows:

.RS 4
.nf
\fIfd\fB = open("\fI/dev/sls\fB");
\fIret\fB = putmsg(\fIfd\fB, \fIctlptr\fB, \fIdataptr\fB, \fIflags\fB);
\fIret\fB = getmsg(\fIfd\fB, \fIctlptr\fB, \fIdataptr\fB, \fIflags\fB);
.fi
.RE
.PP
Downstream messages are sent from the stream head using \fBputmsg\fR(2);
upstream messages are received at the stream head using \fBgetmsg\fR(2).
.PP
\fIflags\fR is either \fBRS_HIPRI\fR or not indicating a \fBM_PCPROTO\fR
or an \fBM_PROTO\fR message respectively.  \fIctlptr\fR and \fIdataptr\fR are
pointers to a \fBstrbuf\fR structure which contains the following members:

.RS 4
.nf
struct strbuf {
    int     maxlen;
    int     len;
    void    *buf;
};
.fi
.RE
.PP
\fIbuf\fR contains a pointer to a \fBSLS_primitive\fR union which contains one
of the following primitives and structures:
.SS Downstream Primitives
.PP
Downstream primitives are sent from the stream head to the protocol state
machines using \fBputmsg\fR(2) system calls as described above.
Except where otherwise noted, \fIbuf\fR contains only the \fBsls_primitive\fR
field which is set to the value of the primitive.

.TP
.B SLS_PDU_REQ
Transmit a Protocol Data Unit (PDU).  This primitive must be sent with an
accompanying \fBM_DATA\fR block which is pointed to by the \fIdataptr\fR in a
\fBputmsg\fR(2) or is the buffer which is the argument of a \fBwrite\fR(2) on
the stream file descriptor.
.TP
.B SLS_EMERGENCY_REQ
Set emergency alignment procedures on the signalling link.
.TP
.B SLS_EMERGENCY_CEASES_REQ
Set normal alignment procedures on the signalling link.
.TP
.B SLS_START_REQ
Start the signalling link.
.TP
.B SLS_STOP_REQ
Stop the signalling link.
.TP
.B SLS_RETRIEVE_BSNT_REQ
Retreive the BSNT value for buffer updating.
.TP
.B SLS_RETREIVAL_REQUEST_AND_FSNC_REQ
Retreive the buffers from the TB/RTB up to and including FSNC.  This
primitive uses a \fBsls_retrieval_request_and_fsnc_t\fB structure which
includes the \fIsls_fsnc\fR value in addition to the \fIsls_primitive\fR as
follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
typedef struct {
    sls_ulong    sls_primitive;
    sls_ulong    sls_fsnc;
} sls_retreival_req_and_fsnc_t;
.fi
.TP 14
.I sls_primitive
Contains the primitive \fBSLS_RETRIEVAL_REQ_AND_FSNC_REQ\fR.
.TP
.I sls_fsnc
Contains the last Forward Sequence Number (FSNC) which was successfully
received by the far end.  Buffers in the RTB with FSN up to and including this
value should be cleared as part of the retrieval.
.RE
.TP
.B SLS_RESUME_REQ
Recover from local processor outage.
.TP
.B SLS_CLEAR_BUFFERS_REQ
Clear signalling link buffers.
.TP
.B SLS_LOCAL_PROCESSOR_OUTAGE_REQ
Institute local processor outage procedures.
.TP
.B SLS_CONGESTION_DISCARD_REQ
Set congestion discard on the signalling link.
.TP
.B SLS_CONGESTION_ACCEPT_REQ
Set congestion accept on the signalling link.
.TP
.B SLS_NO_CONGESTION_REQ
Indicate cessation of congestion to the signalling link.
.TP
.B SLS_POWER_ON_REQ
Power on the signalling link.

.PP
.SS Upstream Primitives
Upstream primitives are collected at the stream head from the protocol state
machines using \fBgetmsg\fR(2) system calls as described above.  Except where
otherwise noted, \fIbuf\fR contains only the \fBsls_primitive\fR field which
is set to the value of the primitive.

.TP
.B SLS_PDU_IND
Receive a Protocol Data Unit (PDU).  This primitive is received with an
accompanying \fBM_DATA\fR block which is pointed to by the \fBdataptr\fR in a
\fBgetmsg\fR(2) or is the buffer which is returned from a \fBread\fR(2) on the
stream file descriptor.
.TP
.B SLS_LINK_CONGESTED_IND
Indicates that the signalling link is congested.  This primitive indicates
addtional information in the \fBsls_link_cong_ind_t\fR structure as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
typedef struct {
    sls_ulong    sls_primitive;
    sls_ulong    sls_timestamp;
    sls_ulong    sls_cong_level;
    sls_ulong    sls_disc_level;
} sls_link_cong_ind_t;
.fi
.TP 14
.I sls_primitive
Contains the primitive \fBSLS_LINK_CONGESTED_IND\fR.
.TP
.I sls_timestamp
Contains the timestamp (system time) that this event occured for the purpose
of event reporting.
.TP
.I sls_cong_level
Contains the current congestion status for this link.
.TP
.I sls_disc_level
Contains the current discard status for this link.
.RE
.TP
.B SLS_LINK_CONGESTION_CEASED_IND
Indicates that signalling link congestion has ceased.  This primitive
indicates additional information in the \fBsls_cong_ceased_ind_t\fR structure
as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
typedef struct {
    sls_ulong    sls_primitive;
    sls_ulong    sls_timestamp;
    sls_ulong    sls_cong_level;
    sls_ulong    sls_disc_level;
} sls_link_cong_ceased_ind_t;
.fi
.TP 14
.I sls_primitive
Contains the primitive \fBSLS_LINK_CONGESTION_CEASED_IND\fR.
.TP
.I sls_timestamp
Contains the timestamp (system time) that this event occured for the purpose
of event reporting.
.TP
.I sls_cong_level
Contains the current congestion status for this link.
.TP
.I sls_disc_level
Contains the current discard status for this link.
.RE
.TP
.B SLS_RETREIVED_MESSAGE_IND
Indicates one retreived message during buffer retreival.
.TP
.B SLS_RETREIVAL_COMPLETE_IND
Indicates that buffer retrieval is complete and not to expect further
retrieved messages.
.TP
.B SLS_RB_CLEARED_IND
Indicates that the Receive Buffer (RB) has been cleared.
.TP
.B SLS_BSNT_IND
Indicates the value of BSNT which was requested by a \fBSLS_RETRIEV_BSNT_REQ\fR.
This primitive indicates additional information in the \fBsls_bsnt_ind_t\fR
structure as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
typedef struct {
    sls_ulong    sls_primitive;
    sls_ulong    sls_bsnt;
} sls_bsnt_ind_t;
.fi
.TP 14
.I sls_primitive
Contains the primitive \fBSLS_BSNT_IND\fR.
.TP
.I sls_bsnt
Contains the Backward Sequence Number (BSN) for transmission (BSNT) which
is the Backwards Sequence Number which will be next sent acknowledging a
received MSU.  This is the SN of the last successfully received MSU for use in
changeover procedures and buffer updating.
.RE
.TP
.B SLS_IN_SERVICE_IND
Indicates that the signalling link is in service and ready to accept traffic.
.TP
.B SLS_OUT_OF_SERVICE_IND
Indicates that the signalling link is out of service and can no longer accept
traffic.  This primitive indicates additional information in the
\fBsls_out_of_service_t\fR structure as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
typedef struct {
    sls_ulong    sls_primitive;
    sls_ulong    sls_timestamp;
    sls_ulong    sls_reason;
} sls_out_of_service_t;
.fi
.TP 14
.I sls_primitive
Contains the primitive \fBSLS_IN_SERVICE_IND\fR.
.TP
.I sls_timestamp
Contains the timestamp (system time) that this event occured for the purpose
of event reporting.
.TP
.I sls_reason
Contains the failure reason for management reporting.  The reason may be one
of the following:
.RE
.sp
.RS
.TS
tab(:);
lb 2 l.
SLS_FAIL_UNSPECIFIED:Unknown.
SLS_FAIL_CONG_TIMEOUT:Timeout (T6).
SLS_FAIL_ACK_TIMEOUT:Timeout (T7).
SLS_FAIL_ABNORMAL_BSNR:Abnormal BSN.
SLS_FAIL_ABNORMAL_FIBR:Abnormal FIB.
SLS_FAIL_SUERM_EIM:SUERM/EIM failure.
SLS_FAIL_ALIGNMENT_NOT_POSSIBLE:Alignment failure.
SLS_FAIL_RECEIVED_SIO:Received SIO.
SLS_FAIL_RECEIVED_SIN:Received SIN.
SLS_FAIL_RECEIVED_SIE:Received SIE.
SLS_FAIL_RECEIVED_SIOS:Received SIOS.
SLS_FAIL_T1_TIMEOUT:Timeout (T1).
.TE
.RE
.TP
.B SLS_REMOTE_PROCESSOR_OUTAGE_IND
Indicates that the remote side of the link has lost communication with its L3
processor.
This primitive indicates additional information for event
reporting in the \fBsls_rem_proc_out_ind_t\fR structure as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
typedef struct {
    sls_ulong    sls_primitive;
    sls_ulong    sls_timestamp;
} sls_rem_proc_out_ind_t;
.fi
.TP 14
.I sls_primitive
Contains the primitive \fBSLS_REMOTE_PROCESSOR_OUTAGE_IND\fR.
.TP
.I sls_timestamp
Contains the timestamp (system time) that this event occured for the purpose
of event reporting.
.RE
.TP
.B SLS_REMOTE_PROCESSOR_RECOVERED_IND
Indicates that the remote side of the link has re-established communications
with its L3 processor.
This primitive indicates additional information for event
reporting in the \fBsls_rem_proc_recovered_ind_t\fR structure as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
typedef struct {
    sls_ulong    sls_primitive;
    sls_ulong    sls_timestamp;
} sls_rem_proc_recovered_ind_t;
.fi
.TP 14
.I sls_primitive
Contains the primitive \fBSLS_REMOTE_PROCESSOR_RECOVERED_IND\fR.
.TP
.I sls_timestamp
Contains the timestamp (system time) that this event occured for the purpose
of event reporting.
.RE
.TP
.B SLS_RTB_CLEARED_IND
Indicates that the Re-Transmission Buffer (RTB) has been cleared.

.SH "PROTOCOL MANAGEMENT INTERFACE"
.PP
Protocol management interface comands are from the stream head to the SLS
driver using \fBstreamio\fR(2) \fBI_STR\fR commands as follows:

.RS 4
.nf
\fIfd\fB = open("\fI/dev/sls\fB");
\fIret\fB = ioctl(\fIfd\fB, \fRI_STR\fB, \fIarg\fB);
.fi
.RE
.PP
Where \fIarg\fR is a pointer to a \fBstrioctl\fR structure which contains the
following members:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
struct strioctl {
    int     ic_cmd;
    int     ic_timout;
    int     ic_len;
    char    *ic_dp;
};
.fi
.RE
.PP
\fIic_cmd\fR can be one of the protocol management interface
commands described in the following subsections:

.SS "Protocol Options"
.PP
Protocol management controls which affect protocol options are used by local
management to set protocol variants and protocol options inherent to the SLS
provider.
.PP
The \fIic_cmd\fR contains one of the following options commands:
.TP
.B SLS_IOCGOPTIONS
Gets the protocol variant \fIpvar\fR and protocol options \fIpopt\fR
assigned to the Signalling Link Set into the provided \fBlmi_option\fR
structure.
.TP
.B SLS_IOCSOPTIONS
Sets the protocol variant \fIpvar\fR and protocol options \fIpopt\fR to the
Signalling Link Set as provided in the \fBlmi_option\fR structure.
.PP
\fIic_dp\fR points to a \fBlmi_option\fR structure which
represents the protocol variant and options parameters as follows:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
typedef struct lmi_option {
    lmi_ulong   pvar;
    lmi_ulong   popt;
} lmi_option_t;
.fi
.TP
.I pvar
Specifies the protocol variant to be used for the Signalling Link Set and
may be one of the following values:
.RE
.RS 4
.IP
.TS
tab(:);
lbw(16) 2 l.
SS7_PVAR_ITUT_88:ITU-T Q.703 1988 (Blue Book)
SS7_PVAR_ITUT_93:ITU-T Q.703 1993 (Grey Book)
SS7_PVAR_ITUT_96:ITU-T Q.703 1996 (White Book)
SS7_PVAR_ITUT_00:ITU-T Q.703 2000 (? Book)
SS7_PVAR_ANSI_88:ANSI T1.113-1988
SS7_PVAR_ANSI_92:ANSI T1.113-1992
SS7_PVAR_ANSI_96:ANSI T1.113-1996
SS7_PVAR_ANSI_00:ANSI T1.113-2000
SS7_PVAR_ETSI_88:ETSI 300 008-1 1988
SS7_PVAR_ETSI_93:ETSI 300 008-1 1993
SS7_PVAR_ETSI_96:ETSI 300 008-1 1996
SS7_PVAR_ETSI_00:ETSI 300 008-1 2000
SS7_PVAR_JTTC_94:JTTC JQ.703 1994
.TE
.RE
.RS 4
.TP
.I popt
Specifies the protocol options to be used for the Signalling Link Set and
may be a bitwise OR of any of the following values:
.RE
.RS 4
.IP
.TS
tab(:);
lbw(16) 2 l.
SS7_POPT_MPLEV:Multi Priority/Cong Levels
SS7_POPT_PCR:Preventative Cyclic Retrans
SS7_POPT_HSL:High Speed Links
SS7_POPT_XSN:Extended Sequence Numbers
SS7_POPT_ALL:All options
.TE
.RE

.SS "Protocol Configuration"
.PP
Protocol management controls which affect protocol configuration are invoked
by local management to configure or request configuration information from the
SLS provider.
.PP
The \fIic_cmd\fR contains one of the following configuration commands:
.TP
.B SLS_IOCGCONFIG
Gets the protocol configuration of the Signalling Link Set into the
provided \fBsls_config\fR structure.
.TP
.B SLS_IOCSCONFIG
Sets the protocol configuration of the Signalling Link Set from the
provided \fBsls_config\fR structure.
.TP
.B SLS_IOCTCONFIG
Tests the protocol configuration as provided in the \fBsls_config\fR structure
against the Signalling Link Set for consistency and validity.  Also locks
the configuration of the SLS provider awaiting a commit.
.TP
.B SLS_IOCCCONFIG
Commits the protocol configuration as provided in the \fBsls_config\fR
structure to the Signalling Link Set.  Also unlocks the configuration of
the SLS provider.
.PP
\fIic_dp\fR points to a \fBsls_config\fR structure which represents the
Signalling Link Set protocol configuration as follows:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
typedef struct sls_config {
    sls_ulong    t1;
    sls_ulong    t2;
    sls_ulong    t2l;
    sls_ulong    t2h;
    sls_ulong    t3;
    sls_ulong    t4n;
    sls_ulong    t4e;
    sls_ulong    t5;
    sls_ulong    t6;
    sls_ulong    t7;
    sls_ulong    rb_abate;
    sls_ulong    rb_accept;
    sls_ulong    rb_discard;
    sls_ulong    tb_abate_1;
    sls_ulong    tb_onset_1;
    sls_ulong    tb_discd_1;
    sls_ulong    tb_abate_2;
    sls_ulong    tb_onset_2;
    sls_ulong    tb_discd_2;
    sls_ulong    tb_abate_3;
    sls_ulong    tb_onset_3;
    sls_ulong    tb_discd_3;
    sls_ulong    N1;
    sls_ulong    N2;
    sls_ulong    M;
} sls_config_t;
.fi
.TP
.IR t1 ", " t2 ", " t2l ", " t2h ", " t3 ", " t4n ", " t4e ", " t5 ", " t6 ", " t7
Contains the timeout values for Level 2 timers (in jiffies or ticks).
.TP
.IR rb_abate ", " rb_accept ", " rb_discard
Contains the accept, discard and abate levels of the Receive Buffer (RB) in
integer numbers of messages.
.TP
.IR tb_abate_1 ", " tb_onset_1 ", " tb_discd_1
Contains the onset, discard and abate levels for congestion level 1 of the
Transmission/Re-Transmission Buffers (TB/RTB) in number of message bytes.
.TP
.IR tb_abate_2 ", " tb_onset_2 ", " tb_discd_2
Contains the onset, discard and abate levels for congestion level 2 of the
Transmission/Re-Transmission Buffers (TB/RTB) in number of message bytes.
.TP
.IR tb_abate_3 ", " tb_onset_3 ", " tb_discd_3
Contains the onset, discard and abate levels for congestion level 3 of the
Transmission/Re-Transmission Buffers (TB/RTB) in number of message bytes.
.TP
.IR N1 ", " N2
Contains the Re-Transmission Buffer (RTB) occupancy which triggers forced
retransmission  in numbers of messages (\fIN1\fR) and number of message bytes
(\fIN2\fR).
.TP
.IR M
Contains the number of normal proving periods which must be successfully
passed during normal alignment procedures (usually 5).

.SS "Protocol State"
.PP
Protocol management controls which affect protocol state are invoked by local
management to request information about the state of the protocol state
machines in the SLS provider.
.PP
The \fIic_cmd\fR contains one of the following state commands:
.TP
.B SLS_IOCGSTATEM
Gets the protocol state machine variables of the Signalling Link Set into
the provided \fBsls_statem\fR structure.
.TP
.B SLS_IOCCMRESET
Performs a master reset on the protocol state machines and returns the
power-on settings of the state machine variables of the Signalling Link Set
into the provided \fBsls_statem\fR structure.
.PP
\fIic_dp\fR points to a \fBsls_statem\fR structure which represents the
Signalling Link Set protocol state as follows:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
typedef struct sls_statem {
    sls_ulong    lsc_state;
    sls_ulong      local_processor_outage;
    sls_ulong      remote_processor_outage;
    sls_ulong      processor_outage;
    sls_ulong      emergency;
    sls_ulong      l3_indication_received;
    sls_ulong      failure_reason;
    sls_ulong    iac_state;
    sls_ulong      further_proving;
    sls_ulong      t4v;
    sls_ulong      Cp;
    sls_ushort   ib_mask;
    sls_ushort   sn_mask;
    sls_ulong    txc_state;
    tx_sni_t      tx;
    sls_ulong      msu_inhibited;
    sls_ulong      lssu_available;
    sls_ulong      rtb_full;
    sls_ulong      clear_rtb;
    sls_ulong      sib_received;
    sls_ulong      retrans_cycle;
    sls_ulong      forced_retransmission;
    sls_ulong      Cm;
    sls_ulong      Ct;
    sls_ulong      cong_level;
    sls_ulong      disc_level;
    sls_ulong      Z;
    void          *z_ptr;
    sls_ulong    rc_state;
    rx_sni_t      rx;
    sls_ulong      rtr;
    sls_ulong      unb;
    sls_ulong      unf;
    sls_ulong      msu_fisu_accepted;
    sls_ulong      abnormal_bsnr;
    sls_ulong      abnormal_fibr;
    sls_ulong      congestion_discard;
    sls_ulong      congestion_accept;
    sls_ulong      l2_congestion_detect;
    sls_ulong      l3_congestion_detect;
    sls_ulong      Cr;
    sls_ulong    cc_state;
    sls_ulong    poc_state;
} sls_statem_t;
.fi
.TP
\fIlsc_state\fR,
\fIlocal_processor_outage\fR, \fIremote_processor_outage\fR, \fIprocessor_outage\fR, \fIemergency\fR, \fIl3_indication_received\fR, \fIfailure_reason\fR
.br
State variable, flags and counters for the Link State Control (LSC) state
machine.
.TP
\fIiac_state\fR,
\fIfurther_proving\fR, \fIt4v\fR, \fICp\fR
.br
State variable, flags and counters for the Initial Alignment Control (IAC)
state machine.
.TP
\fIib_mask\fR, \fIsn_mask\fR
Indicator bit and sequence number masks.
.TP
\fItxc_state\fR,
\fItx\fR, \fImsu_inhibited\fR, \fIlssu_available\fR, \fIrtb_full\fR, \fIclear_rtb\fR, \fIsib_received\fR, \fIretrans_cycle\fR, \fIforced_retransmission\fR, \fICm\fR, \fICt\fR, \fIcong_level\fR, \fIdisc_level\fR, \fIZ\fR, \fIz_ptr\fR
.br
State variable, flags and counters for the Transmission Control (TXC) state
machine.
.TP
\fIrc_state\fR,
\fIrx\fR, \fIrtr\fR, \fIunb\fR, \fIunf\fR, \fImsu_fisu_accepted\fR, \fIabnormal_bsnr\fR, \fIabnormal_fibr\fR, \fIcongestion_discard\fR, \fIcongestion_accept\fR, \fIl2_congestion_detect\fR, \fIl3_congestion_detect\fR, \fICr\fR
.br
State variable, flags and counters for the Reception Control (RC) state
machine.
.TP
\fIcc_state\fR
State variable for the Congestion Control (CC) state machine.
.TP
\fIpoc_state\fR
State variable for the Processor Outage Control (POC) state machine.
.PP
State variables can assume one of the following values (not all values are
valid for all state variables):
.sp
.RS
.TS
tab(:);
lb.
SLS_STATE_IDLE
SLS_STATE_NORMAL
SLS_STATE_POWER_OFF
SLS_STATE_BUSY
SLS_STATE_IN_SERVICE
SLS_STATE_LOCAL_PROCESSOR_OUTAGE
SLS_STATE_PROVING
SLS_STATE_INITIAL_ALIGNMENT
SLS_STATE_NOT_ALIGNED
SLS_STATE_REMOTE_PROCESSOR_OUTAGE
SLS_STATE_SLEEPING
SLS_STATE_ALIGNED
SLS_STATE_ALIGNED_NOT_READY
SLS_STATE_BOTH_PROCESSORS_OUT
SLS_STATE_ALIGNED_READY
SLS_STATE_OUT_OF_SERVICE
SLS_STATE_PROCESSOR_OUTAGE
.TE
.RE

.SS "Protocol Data Collection"
.PP
Protocol management controls which affect protocol measurement data collection
are invoked by local management to request and alter collection periods for
data collection within the SLS provider.
.PP
\fIic_cmd\fR contains one of the following collection commands:
.TP
.B SLS_IOCGSTATSP
Get the protocol measurement collection period information of the identified
\fIobject_id\fR into the provided \fBlmi_sta\fR structure.
.TP
.B SLS_IOCSSTATSP
Set the protocol measurement collection period information of the identified
\fIobject_id\fR using the provided \fBlmi_sta\fR structure.
.PP
\fIic_dp\fR points to a \fBlmi_sta\fR structure which represnts the Signalling
Link Set collection periods as follows:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
typedef struct lmi_sta {
    lmi_ulong   object_id;
    lmi_ulong   colperiod;
    lmi_ulong   timestamp;
} lmi_sta_t;
.fi
.TP
.I object_id
Contains the object idenitfier for the managed object to which the collection
information applies.
.TP
.I colperiod
Contains the collection period (in jiffies).  The managed object measurement
data must be collected and notified once for each collection period interval.
.TP
.I timestamp
Contains a timestamp (in seconds since epoch) which identifies the system time
at which a collection period ends.  This value is used in conjunction with the
collection period to calculate the time of the next collection interval.
.RE

.SS "Protocol Statistics"
.PP
Protocol management controls which affect protocol statistics are invoked by
local management to request information about statistics pertaining to the SLS
provider.
.PP
\fIic_cmd\fR contains one of the following statistics commands:
.TP
.B SLS_IOCGSTATS
Get the protocol statistics of the Signalling Link Set for the current
collection period into the provided \fBsls_stats\fR structure.
.TP
.B SLS_IOCCSTATS
Clear the protocol statisics of the Signalling Link Set for the current
collection period and return the statistics which were accumulated to the
point of clearing during the current interval \fBsls_stats\fR structure.
.PP
\fIic_dp\fR points to a \fBsls_stats\fR structure which represents the
Signalling Link Set protocol statistics as follows:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf

typedef struct sls_stats {
    lmi_sta_t   header;
    sls_ulong    sls_dur_in_service;
    sls_ulong    sls_fail_align_or_proving;
    sls_ulong    sls_nacks_received;
    sls_ulong    sls_dur_unavail;
    sls_ulong    sls_dur_unavail_failed;
    sls_ulong    sls_dur_unavail_rpo;
    sls_ulong    sls_sibs_sent;
    sls_ulong    sls_tran_sio_sif_octets;
    sls_ulong    sls_retrans_octets;
    sls_ulong    sls_tran_msus;
    sls_ulong    sls_recv_sio_sif_octets;
    sls_ulong    sls_recv_msus;
    sls_ulong    sls_cong_onset_ind[4];
    sls_ulong    sls_dur_cong_level[4];
    sls_ulong    sls_msus_cong_discard;
    sls_ulong    sls_cong_discd_ind[4];
} sls_stats_t;
.fi

.TP
.I header
Contains the timestamp for the current collection interval for which
statistics are being reported.
.TP
.I sls_dur_in_service
(Q.752 Table 1.1)
Contains the duration of time that the signalling link has been in
service.
.TP
.I sls_fail_align_or_proving
(Q.752 Table 1.7)
Contains the number of times that the signalling link has failed
during alignement or proving.
.TP
.I sls_nacks_received
(Q.752 Table 1.9)
Contains the number of negative acknowledgements of MSUs received.
.TP
.I sls_dur_unavail
(Q.752 Table 2.1)
Contains the duration of time that the signalling link has been
uavailable for all reasons.
.TP
.I sls_dur_unavail_failed
(Q.752 Table 2.7)
Contains the duration of time that the signalling link has been
unavailable due to failure.
.TP
.I sls_dur_unavail_rpo
(Q.752 Table 2.9)
Contains the duration of time that the signalling link has been
unavailable due to remote processor outage.
.TP
.I sls_sibs_sent
(Q.752 Table 2.15)
Contains the number of SIBs sent.
.TP
.I sls_tran_sio_sif_octets
(Q.752 Table 3.1)
Contains the number of SIO/SIF octets transmitted.
.TP
.I sls_retrans_octets
(Q.752 Table 3.2)
Contains the number of octets retransmitted.
.TP
.I sls_tran_msus
(Q.752 Table 3.3)
Contains the number of MSUs transmitted.
.TP
.I sls_recv_sio_sif_octets
(Q.752 Table 3.4)
Contains the number of SIO/SIF octets received.
.TP
.I sls_recv_msus
(Q.752 Table 3.5)
Contains the number of MSUs received.
.TP
.I sls_cong_onset_ind[4]
(Q.752 Table 3.6)
Contains the number of times that a congestion onset threshold was
passed.
.TP
.I sls_dur_cong_level[4]
(Q.752 Table 3.7)
Contains the duration of time spent in each congestion level.
.TP
.I sls_msus_cong_discard
(Q.752 Table 3.10)
Contains the number of MSUs discarded due to congestion.
.TP
.I sls_cong_discd_ind[4]
(Q.752 Table 3.11)
Contains the number of times that a congestion discard threshold
was passed.
.RE

.SS "Protocol Events"
.PP
Protocol management controls which affect notification of events to local
management are invoked by local management to request information about
notifications which have been requested as well as to set notification by
event.
.PP
The \fIic_cmd\fR contians one of the following notify commands:
.TP
.B SLS_IOCGNOTIFY
Gets the protocol notification bitmask of the Signalling Link Set into
the provided \fBsls_notify\fR structure.
.TP
.B SLS_IOCSNOTIFY
Sets protocol notification for the Signalling Link Set events identified
by set bits in the provided \fBsls_notify\fR structure.
.TP
.B SLS_IOCCNOTIFY
Clears protocol notification for the Signalling Link Set events identified
by set bits in the provided \fBsls_notify\fR structure.
.PP
\fIic_dp\fR points to a \fBsls_notify\fR structure which represents the
Signalling Link Set protocol event notifications as follows:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
typedef struct sls_notify {
    sls_ulong   events;
} sls_notify_t;
.fi
.TP
.I events
Contains a bit mask with bits set for each Signalling Link Set event for
which notification has been requested.  May also contain set bits for events
for which notification should be set (\fBSLS_IOCSNOTIFY\fR) or cleared
(\fBSLS_IOCCNOTIFY\fR).  The mask is the bitwise OR of any of the following
values:
.RE
.RS 4
.IP
.TS
tab(:);
lb 2 l.
SLS_EVT_FAIL_UNSPECIFIED:
SLS_EVT_FAIL_CONG_TIMEOUT:Q.752 Table 1.6
SLS_EVT_FAIL_ACK_TIMEOUT:Q.752 Table 1.4
SLS_EVT_FAIL_ABNORMAL_BSNR:
SLS_EVT_FAIL_ABNORMAL_FIBR:
SLS_EVT_FAIL_ABORMAL:Q.752 Table 1.3
SLS_EVT_FAIL_SUERM_EIM:Q.752 Table 1.5
SLS_EVT_FAIL_ALIGNMENT:
SLS_EVT_FAIL_RECEIVED_SIO:
SLS_EVT_FAIL_RECEIVED_SIN:
SLS_EVT_FAIL_RECEIVED_SIE:
SLS_EVT_FAIL_RECEIVED_SIOS:
SLS_EVT_FAIL_T1_TIMEOUT:
SLS_EVT_RPO_BEGIN:Q.752 Table 2.10
SLS_EVT_RPO_END:Q.752 Table 2.11
SLS_EVT_CONGEST_ONSET_IND:Q.752 Table 3.6  1st&D
SLS_EVT_CONGEST_DISCD_IND:Q.752 Table 3.11 1st&D
.TE
.RE

.\" .SH "ERROR HANDLING"

.\" .SS "ERRORS"

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR devi (7),
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR lmi (7),
.BR mtpi (7),
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR read (2),
.BR sls (4),
.BR slsi (7),
.BR ss7d (8),
.BR streamio (2),
.BR write (2)


.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Too many to mention.

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
Brian F. G. Bidulock, <bidulock@openss7.org>

.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
This STREAMS interface for SS7 is an original part of the \fIOpenSS7\fR package.

.XX
.[
q702
.]
.[
q703
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
