'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ss7.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:43 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1997-2001  Brian Bidulock.
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:43 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" $Log: ss7.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2005/03/30 13:39:43  brian
.\" - Updated manual page headers.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2005/01/26 07:58:15  brian
.\" - Changed macro names and updated copyright headers.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2004/04/17 23:05:35  brian
.\" - Updating manual pages.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2004/04/17 21:17:47  brian
.\" - Converted to cooked manpages.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9  2004/01/17 08:01:29  brian
.\" - Added files for 0.9 baseline autoconf release.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.8.2.4  2003/07/31 11:09:17  brian
.\" Corrections.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.8.2.3  2003/07/30 05:04:50  brian
.\" Corrections.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.8.2.2  2003/07/20 21:45:20  brian
.\" Minor formatting.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.8.2.1  2003/07/18 20:38:45  brian
.\" A lot of minor embellishments.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.8  2002/04/02 08:22:37  brian
.\" Started Linux 2.4 development branch.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7.8.1  2001/12/11 13:16:08  brian
.\" Branched for new development.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7.6.1  2001/02/18 12:11:15  brian
.\" New working branch for next release.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7.4.1  2001/02/18 09:44:48  brian
.\" Added new working branch.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7.2.5  2001/01/18 09:15:47  brian
.\" More work on SLS.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7.2.4  2001/01/17 00:29:10  brian
.\" Working on man pages.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7.2.3  2001/01/14 23:29:12  brian
.\" Changed copyright notice.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7.2.2  2001/01/14 11:07:53  brian
.\" Changed headers back to GPL.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7.2.1  2001/01/08 09:17:23  brian
.\" Updated man pages somewhat.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7  2000/11/29 02:09:56  brian
.\" Added man pages for interfaces.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7  2000/11/19 00:25:57  brian
.\" Added man pages for streams drivers.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH SS7 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Signalling System No. 7" 
.SH "NAME"
ss7 \- Signalling System No. 7 for STREAMS
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <ss7/ss7.h>
.HP
.BI "int " fd " = open(" /dev/module ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " ret " = ioctl(" fd ", " cmd ", ... /* " arg " */ );"
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The \fIOpenSS7\fR STREAMS package for SS7 consists of a number of loadable
drivers and modules for Linux which are based on the LiS (Linux STREAMS)
.[
LiS
.]
package.  These drivers and modules implement the traditional SS7 stack as
well as providing some IETF SIGTRAN and other SS7 over IP components.

\fIOpenSS7\fR protocol layers and levels are implemented as STREAMS drivers, modules and
multiplexors.  The \fIOpenSS7\fR package provides an open specification of the
interface to each of these drivers, modules and multiplexors to permit the
mixing and matching of components in the SS7 stack as well as driver and
module development at various levels.

Also included in \fIOpenSS7\fR is an SS7 Conifguration Daemon
.BR ss7d (8)
which is responsible for configuration and intialization of the SS7 stack on
the target host.  This daemon is normally run from system initialization
scripts reads an SS7 configuration file and opens drivers, pushes modules and
links the resulting streams under multiplexors to form the entire SS7 stack
for a particular configuration.  The
.BR ss7d (8)
is also responsible for
interfacing with system level utilitities for collecting statistics and
performing maintenance and manual configuration of a running SS7 stack.

This man page describes some of the features which are common to the
\fIOpenSS7\fR
streasms drivers, modules and multiplexors which are defined in the header
file \fI<ss7/ss7.h>\fR.

.SS Protocol Configuration
.PP
Each \fIOpenSS7\fR module defines a configuration structure (e.g.
\fBsl_conf_t\fR) which contains the following two members:
.RS
.sp
.nf
typedef struct module_config {
    ss7_ulong   pvar;   /* protocol variant */
    ss7_ulong   popt;   /* protocol options */
    \fI...\fR
    \fI/* additional level specific options */\fR
    \fI...\fR
} module_config_t;
.fi
.RE
.TP
.I pvar
The \fIOpenSS7\fR stack provides the capability to run many SS7 protocol
variants simultaneously.  Therefore, all \fIOpenSS7\fR stack modules contain a
\fIpvar\fR configuration parameter which contains the selected protocol
variant.  Currently defined protocol variants are as follows:
.IP
.B SS7_PVAR_ITUT_88
ITU-T Q.700 Series Blue Book
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ITUT_93
ITU-T Q.700 Series White Book
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ITUT_96
ITU-T Q.700 Series Grey Book
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ITUT_00
ITU-T Q.700 Series Black Book
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ETSI_88
ETSI ETS 300 Series (based on Blue Book)
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ETSI_93
ETSI ETS 300 Series (based on White Book)
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ETSI_96
ETSI ETS 300 Series (based on Grey Book)
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ETSI_00
ETSI ETS 300 Series (based on Black Book)
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ANSI_88
ANSI T1.111-1988
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ANSI_92
ANSI T1.111-1992
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ANSI_96
ANSI T1.111-1996
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ANSI_00
ANSI T1.111-2000
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_JTTC_94
Japan TTC JQ.700 Series (based on Blue Book)
.IP
These protocol variant parameters are defined in such a way that they can be
tested against the following to find the major variant:
.IP
.B SS7_PVAR_ITUT
ITU-T Q.700 Series
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ETSI
ETSI ETS 300 Series (based on ITU-T)
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_ANSI
ANSI T1.111
.br
.B SS7_PVAR_JTTC
TTC JQ.700 Series
.TP
.I popt
In addition, each \fIOpenSS7\fR module can enable or disable a number of major options
which are described in the standards specifications.  Each \fIOpenSS7\fR module has a
\fIpopt\fR configuration parameter which contains a bit vector of the enabled
protocol options for that module.  For a definition of the options at each
level, see the man page for the specific interface.
.PP
Each \fIOpenSS7\fR module recognizes protocol management primitives for
configuration.  These primitives are invoked by protocol layer management to
configure or request configuratoin information from the layer service
provider.  Any \fBM_DATA\fR block attached to the primitives contains a
\fBmodule_conf_t\fR structure (see above) which represents the configuration
parameters.  Configuration request should normally be sent as \fBM_PCPROTO\fR
messages.
.TP
.B MGMT_CONFIG_SETUP
Test if the configuration parameters provided in the attached \fBM_DATA\fR
block are settable and correct.  Any values set to \fI0xffffffff\fR in the
configuration parameters should not be tested for change by the layer service
provider.  When successful, this request also write locks the configuration
until a successful \fBMGMT_CONFIG_COMMIT\fR is executed.
This primitive contains only the \fImgmt_primitive\fR member.
.TP
.B MGMT_CONFIG_COMMIT
Commits the changes of a previous successful \fBMGMT_CONFIG_TEST\fR operation.
No configuration data is associated with this request and any attached
\fBM_DATA\fR is ignored.  When successful, this request also releases the
write locks on the configuration.
This primitive contains only the \fImgmt_primitive\fR member.
.TP
.B MGMT_CONFIG_SET
Sets the configuration parameters to the values provided in the attached
\fBM_DATA\fR block.  This request will fail if the configuration is write
locked.
This primitive contains only the \fImgmt_primitive\fR member.
.TP
.B MGMT_CONFIG_GET
Get the configuration parameters.  Any attached \fBM_DATA\fR is ignored.  If
the configuration is write locked, this request will only return the values
which have been setup for a commit and not necessarily the current values.
This primitive contains only the \fImgmt_primitive\fR member.
.TP
.B MGMT_OK_ACK
Upon success, the layer service provider will return a \fBMGMT_OK_ACK\fR to
confirm a successful configuration request.  The provider attached a
\fBM_DATA\fR block which contains the \fImodule_conf_t\fR structure with
the results of the configuration request.  This primitive uses the
\fBmgmt_ok_ack_t\fR structure as follows:
.RS
.sp
.nf
typedef struct {
    mgmt_ulong  mgmt_primitive; /* MGMT_OK_ACK */
    mgmt_ulong  mgmt_state;
    mgmt_ulong  mgmt_correct_primitive;
} mgmt_ok_ack_t;
.fi
.TP
.I mgmt_state
Contains the management state of the interface.
.TP
.I mgmt_correct_primitive
Contains the request primitive which this response is acknowledging.
.RE
.TP
.B MGMT_ERROR_ACK
Upon failure, the layer service provider will return a \fBMGMT_ERROR_ACK\fR to
reject the configuration request due to an error.  The provider attaches a
\fBM_DATA\fR block which contains a \fBmodule_conf_t\fR structure with
\fI0xffffffff\fR in any values which are in error.  This primitive uses the
\fBmgmt_error_ack_t\fR structure as follows:
.RS
.sp
.nf
typedef struct {
    mgmt_ulong  mgmt_primitive; /* MGMT_ERROR_ACK */
    mgmt_ulong  mgmt_state;
    mgmt_ulong  mgmt_error_primitive;
    mgmt_ulong  mgmt_errno;
    mgmt_ulong  mgmt_reason;
} mgmt_error_ack_t;
.fi
.TP
.I mgmt_state
Contains the management state of the interface.
.TP
.I mgmt_error_primitive
Contains the request primitive which this response is acknowledging.
.TP
.I mgmt_errno
The error number indicating which error occured.
.TP
.I mgmt_reason
An additional error reason code.
.RE
.IP
Error numbers which are specific to a configuration request rejection are as
follows:
.RS
.TP
.B MGMT_CONFLOCKED
The request attempted to perform an illegal operation on a locked
configuration.
.TP
.B MGMT_NOCONFDATA
The request was missing configuration data (i.e. missing \fBM_DATA\fR block or
\fBM_DATA\fR block too short.
.TP
.B MGMT_BADCONFDATA
Some configuration data was invalid.  The attached \fBM_DATA\fR block contains
\fI0xffffffff\fR in the data elements which are considered invalid.
.RE


.SH "SS7 STREAMS INTERFACES"

The \fIOpenSS7\fR stack provides drivers and modules at all levels of the SS7
stack below ISUP and TCAP.  That is, it provides SS7 Level 2 (Link), SS7 Level
3 (Network), and SCCP (Signalling Connection Control Part) functionality.
These protocol components have been broken into a number of sublevels,
starting from the bottom-most, as follows:
.TP 8
.BR sdli (7)
The \fISignalling Data Link Interface (SDLI)\fR implements SS7 Level 1 [Q702].
SDLI allows real and emulated transmission channels to be implemented for use
under the
.BR sdt (8)
module.  It provides access to the DAEDT and DAEDR
functions of the SS7 Signalling Link [Q703].  Header file \fI<sys/sdli.h>\fR
provides definitions for the interface.  \fIOpenSS7\fR drivers planned or
released at this interface include:
.RS
.TP 12
.BR sdl (8)
SDL module for use by SDLI compliant drivers.
.TP
.BR sdl_eth (4)
SDL emulation using raw Ethernet (IEEE 802.2/802.3).
.TP
.BR sdl_ip (4)
SDL emulation using raw Internet Protocol (IP).
.TP
.BR sdl_udp (4)
SDL emulation using User Datagram Protocol (UDP).
.TP
.BR sdl_tcp (4)
SDL emulation using Transmission Control Protocol (TCP).
.TP
.BR sdl_rtp (4)
SDL emulation using Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP).
.TP
.BR sdl_sctp (4)
SDL emulation using Strean Control Transport Protocol (SCTP).
.RE
.TP
.BR sdti (7)
The \fISignalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI)\fR implements partial SS7
Level 2 [Q703].  SDTI allows real and emulated data terminals to be
implemented for use under the
.BR sl (8)
module.  It provides access to the
AERM, SUERM, EIM, DAEDR and DAEDT functions of the SS7 Signalling Link [Q703].
Header file \fI<sys/sdti.h>\fR provides definitions for the interface.
\fIOpenSS7\fR drivers planned or released at this interface include:
.RS
.TP 12
.BR sdt (8)
SDT module for use with SDLI compliant streams.
.TP
.BR acb56t (8)
SDT driver for the SeaLevel ACB56 ISA card.
.TP
.BR m2tp (8)
SDT driver for the MTP Level 2 Tunneling Protocol (M2TP).
.TP
.BR soip (8)
SDT driver for SS7 over IP.
.RE
.TP
.BR sli (7)
The \fISignalling Link Interface (SLI)\fR implements complete SS7 Level 2
[Q703].  SLI allows real and emulated signalling links to be implemented for
use under the
.BR sls (4)
module.  It provides access to all SS7 Level 2
state machine functions of the SS7 Signalling Link [Q703].  Header file
\fI<sys/sli.h>\fR provides definitions for the interface.  \fIOpenSS7\fR
drivers planned or released at this interface include:
.RS
.TP 12
.BR sl (8)
SL module for use with SDTI compliant streams.
.TP
.BR acb56 (4)
SL driver for the SeaLevel ACB56 ISA card.
.TP
.BR m2pa (8)
SL driver for the MTP Level 2 Peer Adaptation (M2PA).
.TP
.BR m2ua (8)
SL driver for the MTP Level User Adaptation (M2UA).
.RE
.TP
.BR slsi (7)
The \fISignalling Link Set Interface (SLSI)\fR implements partial SS7 Level 3
[Q704].  SLSI allows real and emulated signalling link sets to be implemented
for use under the
.BR mtp (8)
multipexor.  It provides access to SS7 Level 3
Link Set state machine functions of the SS7 Message Transfer Part [Q704].
Header file \fI<sys/slsi.h>\fR provides definitions for the interface.
\fIOpenSS7\fR drivers planned or released at this interface include:
.RS
.TP 12
.BR sls (4)
SLS multiplexor for use with SLI compliant streams.
.TP
.BR m3tp (8)
SLS driver for the MTP Level 3 Tunelling Protocol (M3TP).
.RE
.TP
.BR mtpi (7)
The \fIMessage Transfer Part Interface (MTPI)\fR implements complete SS7 Level
3 [Q704].  MTPI allows real and virtual signalling points and signalling
transfer points to be implemented for use under the
.BR sccp (8)
and
.BR tcap (4)
modules.  It provides access to all SS7 Level 3 state machines
and functions of SS7 Message Transfer Part [Q704].  Header file
\fI<sys/mtpi.h>\fR provides definitions for the interface.  \fIOpenSS7\fR
drivers planned or released at this interface include:
.RS
.TP 12
.BR mtp (4)
MTP multiplexor for use with SLSI compliant streams.
.TP
.BR m3pa (4)
MTP module for the MTP Level 3 Peer Adaptation (M3PA).
.TP
.BR m3ua (4)
MTP module for the MTP Level 3 User Adaptation (M3UA).
.RE
.TP
.BR sccpi (7)
The \fISignalling Connection Control Part Interface (SCCPI)\fR implements
complete SS7 Level 4 [Q711].  SCCPI allows real and virtual subsystems and
global title translations to be implemented for use under the
.BR tcap (4)
module.  It provides access to all SS7 Level 4 state machines of the SS7
Signalling Connnection Control Part [Q711].  Header file \fI<sys/sccpi.h>\fR
provides definitions for the interface.  \fIOpenSS7\fR drivers planned or
released at this interface include:
.RS
.TP 12
.BR sccp (4)
SCCP module for use with MTPI compliant streams.
.TP
.BR sua (4)
SCCP module for the SCCP User Adaptation (SUA).
.RE
.TP
.BR isupi (7)
The \fIIntegrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) User Part Interface (ISUPI)\fR
implements partial SS7 ISUP [Q767].  ISUPI allows call processing agents to
attach to specific PC-PC-CIC ranges in control of trunk groups.  It provides
some basis low-level ISUP state machines (e.g. Unequipped CIC) of the SS7
ISUP [Q767].  Header file \fI<sys/isupi.h>\fR provides definitions for the
interface.  \fIOpenSS7\fR drivers planned or released at this interface
include:
.RS
.TP 12
.BR isup (4)
ISUP module for use with MTPI compliant streams.
.TP
.BR iua (4)
ISUP module for the ISDN User Adaptation (IUA).
.RE
.TP
.BR tcapi (7)
The \fITransaction Capabilities Application Part Interface (TCAPI)\fR
implements partion SS7 TCAP [Q7??].  TCAPI allows transaction processing
agents to attach to specific subsystem instances in control of database
queries.  It provides the TC state machines of the SS7 TCAP [Q???].  Header
file \fI<sys/tcapi.h>\fR provides definitions for the interface.
\fIOpenSS7\fR drivers planned or released at this interface include:
.RS
.TP 12
.BR tcap (4)
TCAP module for use with SCCPI compliant streams.
.RE
.\" .SH "CONFIGURATION"
.\" .SH "ERROR HANDLING"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR isupi (7),
.BR mtpi (7),
.BR sccpi (7),
.BR sdli (7),
.BR sdti (7),
.BR sli (7),
.BR slsi (7),
.BR tcapi (7),
.BR acb56 (4),
.BR isup (4),
.BR iua (4),
.BR m2pa (4),
.BR m2tp (4),
.BR m2ua (4),
.BR m3pa (4),
.BR m3tp (4),
.BR m3ua (4),
.BR mtp (4),
.BR sccp (4),
.BR sdl_eth (4),
.BR sdl_ip (4),
.BR sdl_rtp (4),
.BR sdl_sctp (4),
.BR sdl_tcp (4),
.BR sdl_udp (4),
.BR sdt (8),
.BR sl (8),
.BR sls (4),
.BR soip (8),
.BR ss7d (8),
.BR sua (4),
.BR tcap (4).
.SH "BUGS"
Too many to mention.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
Brian F. G. Bidulock,
.IR "" < bidulock@openss7.org >.
.SH "HISTORY"
This STREAMS interface for SS7 is an orignal part of the \fIOpenSS7\fR
package.
.XX
.[
q702
.]
.[
q703
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
q711
.]
.[
q712
.]
.[
q713
.]
.[
q714
.]
.[
q715
.]
.[
t1.112
.]
.[
q761
.]
.[
q762
.]
.[
q763
.]
.[
q764
.]
.[
q766
.]
.[
q767
.]
.[
t1.113
.]
.[
isupv4-1
.]
.[
q771
.]
.[
q772
.]
.[
q773
.]
.[
q774
.]
.[
q775
.]
.[
t1.114
.]
.[
q751-1
.]
.[
q751-2
.]
.[
q752
.]
.[
t1.116
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
