'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_ADDR_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-29 07:10:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: T_ADDR_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-29 07:10:30  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:18  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH T_ADDR_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_ADDR_REQ
\- Get Protocol Address Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of a
.B M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_addr_req {
    t_scalar_t   PRIM_type;      /* Always T_ADDR_REQ */
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive requests the transport provider to return the local and
remote protocol addresses currently associated with the transport
endpoint.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
indicates the primitive type.
.PP
Note that the
.BR T_ADDR_REQ
and
.BR T_ADDR_ACK (7)
primitives have no effect on the
state of the transport provider and do not appear in the state tables. 
.SH RULES
This primitive requires the transport provider to generate one of the
following acknowledgments on receipt of the primitive and that the transport
user wait for the acknowledgment before issuing any other primitives:
.TP
.B Successful
Acknowledgment of the primitive via
.BR T_ADDR_ACK (7).
.TP
.B Non-fatal errors
These errors will be indicated via
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH MODES
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_ADDR_ACK (7),
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
