'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_BIND_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:18 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:18 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: T_BIND_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:18  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH T_BIND_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_BIND_REQ
\- Bind Protocol Address Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
These messages consist of one
.B M_PROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_bind_req {
    t_scalar_t    PRIM_type;      /* Always T_BIND_REQ */
    t_scalar_t    ADDR_length;
    t_scalar_t    ADDR_offset;
    t_uscalar_t   CONIND_number;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive requests that the transport provider bind a protocol address to
the stream, negotiate the number of connect indications allowed
to be outstanding by the transport provider for the specified protocol
address, and activate the stream associated with the protocol address.
.IP - 3
Note that a stream is viewed as active when the transport provider may
receive and transmit TPDUs (transport protocol data units) associated with
the stream.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
indicates the primitive type.
.TP
.I ADDR_length
is the length of the protocol address to be bound to the stream.
.TP
.I ADDR_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
block where the protocol
address begins.  Note that all lengths, offsets, and sizes in all
structures refer to the number of bytes.
.TP
.I CONIND_number
is the requested number of connect indications allowed to be outstanding
by the transport provider for the specified protocol address.

Note that the
.I CONIND_number
should be ignored by those providing a
connectionless transport service.  Also note that if the number of outstanding
connect indications equals
.IR CONIND_number ,
the transport provider need not
discard further incoming connect indications, but may choose to queue them
internally until the number of outstanding connect indications drops
below
.IR CONIND_number .
.PP
The proper alignment of the address in the
.B M_PROTO
message block is not
guaranteed.  The address in the
.B M_PROTO
message block is however,
aligned the same as it was received from the transport user. 
.SH RULES
For rules governing the requests made by these primitives, see the
.BR T_BIND_ACK (7)
primitive. 
.PP
These primitives require the transport provider to generate one of the
following acknowledgments on receipt of the primitive, and the transport user
must wait for the acknowledgment before issuing any other primitives:
.TP
.B Successful
Correct acknowledgment of the primitive is indicated via the
.BR T_BIND_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.B Non-fatal errors
These errors will be indicated via the
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive described in
reference TPI-SMD.
.SH ERRORS
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP
.RB [ TACCES ]
This indicates that the user did not have proper permissions for the use of
the requested address.
.TP
.RB [ TADDRBUSY ]
This indicates that the requested address is in use.
.TP
.RB [ TBADADDR ]
This indicates that the protocol address was in an incorrect format or the
address contained invalid information.  It is not intended to indicate protocol
errors.
.TP
.RB [ TNOADDR ]
This indicates that the transport provider could not allocate an address.
.TP
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The primitive would place the transport interface out of state.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in
the primitive.
.SH MODES
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_BIND_ACK (7),
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
