'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_CAPABILITY_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:18 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:18 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: T_CAPABILITY_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:18  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH T_CAPABILITY_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_CAPABILITY_ACK
\- protocol capability acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of an
.B M_PROTO
or
.B M_PCPROTO
message containing a
.B struct T_capability_ack
which contains (at least) the following members:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_capability_ack {
    t_scalar_t         PRIM_type;    /* always T_CAPABILITY_ACK  */
                                     /* must be the first field! */
    t_uscalar_t        CAP_bits1;    /* capability bits #1       */
    struct T_info_ack  INFO_ack;     /* info acknowledgement     */
    t_uscalar_t        ACCEPTOR_id;  /* accepting queue id       */
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive is the response to a
.BR T_CAPABILITY_REQ
and informs the transport
user of various provider information and feature capabilities as encoded in
the field
.I CAP_bits1 .
The provider must only set those bits which it supports
and must leave as zero any bits not supported.
.SH PARAMETERS
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
This indicates the primitive type and is always
.BR T_CAPABILITY_ACK .
This field
must be strictly the first field to allow receivers to determine the message
type.
.TP
.I CAP_bits1
This is a 32-bit integer with zero or more of the following bits set, all
other bits must be zero:
.RS
.TP
.B TC1_INFO
This bit indicates that the
.I INFO_ack
field contains the information which
would have been returned in a
.B T_INFO_ACK
message at the same time.
.TP
.B TC1_ACCEPTOR_ID
This bit indicates that the
.I ACCEPTOR_id
field contains a unique identifier of
this connection which is suitable for use in the
.I ACCEPTOR_id
field of the
.B T_CONN_RES
message.
.TP
.B Extensibility
In addition the following bit is reserved for future use:
.B TC1_CAP_BITS2
.RE
.TP
.I INFO_ack
This field is a sub-structure which contains an entire
.B T_INFO_ACK
message so
that
.B T_CAPABILITY_ACK
can function as a replacement for that message.  The
contents are only valid if the
.B TC1_INFO
bit is set in
.IR CAP_bits1 .
.TP
.I ACCEPTOR_id
This field parallels the field of the same name in the
.BR T_CONN_RES
message and,
if the
.B TC1_ACCEPTOR_ID
bit is set in
.IR CAP_bits1 ,
supplies a suitable value for
use in the
.BR T_CONN_RES
message.
.SH RULES
If the
.BR T_CAPABILITY_REQ
was an
.B M_PCPROTO
then this message must also be sent
as an
.BR M_PCPROTO .
Similarly if the
.BR T_CAPABILITY_REQ
was an
.B M_PROTO
then this
message must also be sent as an
.BR M_PROTO .
.SH MODES
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_CAPABILITY_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
