'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_ERROR_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/05/12 10:15:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/05/12 10:15:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH T_ERROR_ACK 7 "$Date: 2004/05/12 10:15:03 $" "$Name:  $" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_ERROR_ACK
\- Error Acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of a
.B M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_error_ack {
    t_scalar_t   PRIM_type;      /* Always T_ERROR_ACK */
    t_scalar_t   ERROR_prim;     /* Primitive in error */
    t_scalar_t   TLI_error;
    t_scalar_t   UNIX_error;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the transport user that a non-fatal error has
occurred in the last transport-user-originated primitive.
.PP
For an overview of the error handling capabilities available to the transport
provider see reference TPI-SMD.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive.
.TP
.I ERROR_prim
identifies the primitive type that caused the error
.TP
.I TLI_error
contains the Transport Level Interface error code.
.TP
.I UNIX_error
contains the Linux system error code.  This may only be non zero if
.I TLI_error
is equal to
.BR TSYSERR.  
.SH RULES
This may only be initiated as an acknowledgment for those primitives that
require one.  It also indicates to the user that no action was taken on the
primitive that caused the error.
.SH ERRORS
The list of Transport Level Interface error codes are listed in Appendix F of
the referenced XNS specification. 
.SH MODES
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_OK_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
