'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_EXDATA_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:58:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH T_EXDATA_IND 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:12 $" "$Name:  $" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_EXDATA_IND
\- Expedited Data Indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks containing at least one byte of data.  The format of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s+1\
struct T_exdata_ind {
    t_scalar_t   PRIM_type;      /* Always T_EXDATA_IND */
    t_scalar_t   MORE_flag;
};
\fC\s-1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the transport user that this message contains
an expedited transport interface data unit.  One or more expedited
transport interface data units form an expedited transport service data
unit.
.PP
This primitive has a mechanism which indicates the beginning and end of
an expedited transport service data unit.  However, not all transport
providers support the concept of an expedited transport service data unit.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
.TP
.I MORE_flag
when greater than zero, indicates that the next
.B T_EXDATA_IND
primitive is also part of this expedited transport service data unit. 
.SH MODES
Only connection-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_EXDATA_REQ (7),
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7),
.BR T_DATA_IND (7),
.BR T_OPTDATA_REQ (7),
.BR T_OPTDATA_IND (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
