'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_OK_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:40 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:40 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH T_OK_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_OK_ACK
\- Success Acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_ok_ack {
    t_scalar_t   PRIM_type;      /* Always T_OK_ACK */
    t_scalar_t   CORRECT_prim;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Thisprimitive indicates to the transport user that the previous
transport-user-originated primitive was received successfully by the
transport provider.  It does not indicate to the transport user any transport
protocol action taken due to issuing the
.BR T_INFO_REQ (7)
primitive.  This may only be initiated as an acknowledgment for those
primitives that require one.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive.
.TP
.I CORRECT_prim
contains the successfully received primitive type.
.SH MODES
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
