'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_ORDREL_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:58:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH T_ORDREL_IND 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:12 $" "$Name:  $" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_ORDREL_IND
\- Orderly Release Indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of a
.B M_PROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_ordrel_ind {
    t_scalar_t   PRIM_type;      /* Always T_ORDREL_IND */
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the transport user that the user on the other
side of the connection is finished sending data.  This primitive is
only supported by the transport provider if it is of type
.BR T_COTS_ORD .
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
.SH MODES
Only connection-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_ORDREL_REQ (7),
.BR T_DISCON_IND (7),
.BR T_DISCON_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
