'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_UNITDATA_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2005/03/30 13:39:40 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:40 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH T_UNITDATA_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_UNITDATA_REQ
\- Unitdata Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by zero or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks where each
.B M_DATA
message block contains zero or more bytes of data.  The format of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_unitdata_req {
    t_scalar_t   PRIM_type;      /* Always T_UNITDATA_REQ */
    t_scalar_t   DEST_length;
    t_scalar_t   DEST_offset;
    t_scalar_t   OPT_length;
    t_scalar_t   OPT_offset;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive requests that the transport provider send the specified
datagram to the specified destination.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
.TP
.I DEST_length
is the length of the destination address
.TP
.I DEST_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block) where the destination address begins. 
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the requested options associated with the primitive.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block) of the requested options associated with the primitive. 
.PP
The proper alignment of the destination address and options in the
.B M_PROTO
message block is not guaranteed.  The destination address and options in the
.B M_PROTO
message block are, however, aligned the same as they were received from the
transport user. 
.PP
This primitive does not require any acknowledgment.  If a non-fatal error
occurs, it is the responsibility of the transport provider to report it via
the
.BR T_UDERROR_IND (7)
indication.  Fatal errors are indicated via a
.B M_ERROR
message type which results in the failure of all operating system service
routines on the stream. 
.SH ERRORS
The allowable fatal errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ EPROTO ]
This indicates one of the following unrecoverable protocol conditions:
.IP - 3
The transport service interface was found to be in an incorrect state.
.IP -
The amount of transport user data associated with the primitive defines an
transport service data unit larger than that allowed by the transport
provider.
.SH MODES
Only connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_UNITDATA_IND (7),
.BR T_UDERROR_IND (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
