'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_ABORT_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/03/30 13:39:35 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:35 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_ABORT_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TC_ABORT_IND
\- Abort Indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of a
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_abort_ind {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TC_ABORT_IND */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* Options associated with the primitive */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* Options associated wtih the primitive */
    ulong DIALOG_id;          /* Dialog Identifier */
    ulong ABORT_reason;       /* Abort reason */
    ulong ORIGINATOR;         /* Either User or Provider originated */
} TC_abort_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates to the TC user that either a request for dialogue has been denied or an
existing dialogue has been aborted.
The format of this message is one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block possibly followed by one or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks if there is any TC user data associated with the primitive.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
Always
.BR TC_ABORT_REQ .
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the protocol options associated with the abort.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the protocol options start.
.TP
.I DIALOG_id
is the transaction dialogue identifier that identifies which dialogue was aborted.
.TP
.I ABORT_reason
is the reason of the abort.
The reason codes are protocol specific.
.TP
.I ORIGINATOR
is the originator of the abort.  This field can be one of the following:
.RS
.TP 14
.B TC_USER
The abort was originated by the peer TC user.
.TP
.B TC_PROVIDER
The abort was originated by the local or remote TC provider.
.RE
.SH MODES
.PP
Operation classes 1, 2, or 3.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
Transaction component provider.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR TC_BEGIN_REQ (7),
.BR TC_ABORT_REQ (7),
.BR TC_END_REQ (7),
.BR TC_END_IND (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
