'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_ABORT_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2006/04/05 09:43:17 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:17 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: TC_ABORT_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:43:17  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_ABORT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TC_ABORT_REQ
\- Abort Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block followed by one or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks if there is any user data specified by the TC user.
The format of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_abort_req {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TC_ABORT_REQ */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* Options associated with the primitive */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* Options associated wtih the primitive */
    ulong DIALOG_id;          /* Dialog Identifier */
    ulong ABORT_reason;       /* Abort reason */
} TC_abort_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the TC provider deny a request for dialogue, or abort an
existing dialogue.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
Always
.BR TC_ABORT_REQ .
.TP
.I OPT_length
specifies the length of the protocol options associated with the abort.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
specifies the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the protocol options begin.
.TP
.I DIALOG_id
specifies the indentifier of the existing transaction dialogue or incoming transaction
dialogue attempt being aborted.
.TP
.I ABORT_reason
specifies the (user) reason for the abort.
.SH RULES
.PP
This primitive requires the TC provider to generate the following acknowledgment on receipt
of the primitive, and the TC user must wait for the acknowledgment before issuing any other
primitives:
.SS Successful
Correct acknowledgment of the primitive is indicated via the
.BR TC_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.
.SS Non-fatal errors
These errors will be indicated via the
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ TCBADDATA ]
The amount of TC user data specified was invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TCBADID ]
The transaction identifier specified in the primitive was incorrect or invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TCNOTSUPPORT ]
This primitive is not supported by the TC provider.
.TP
.RB [ TCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive would place the transaction interface out of state.
.TP
.RB [ TCSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in
the primitive.
.SH MODES
.PP
Operation classes 1, 2, or 3.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
Transaction component user.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR TC_ABORT_IND (7),
.BR TC_BEGIN_IND (7),
.BR TC_END_REQ (7),
.BR TC_END_IND (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
