'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_BIND_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2008-04-29 07:10:29 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:29 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: TC_BIND_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2008-04-29 07:10:29  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:43:17  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_BIND_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TC_BIND_ACK
\- Bind Protocol Address Acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_bind_ack {
    ulong PRIM_type;
    ulong ADDR_length;
    ulong ADDR_offset;
    ulong XACT_number;
    ulong TOKEN_value;
} TC_bind_ack_t;

typedef struct TC_subs_bind_ack {
    ulong PRIM_type;
} TC_subs_bind_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates to the TC user that the specified protocol address has been bound
to the
.IR stream ,
that the specified number of transaction association begin indications are allowed to be queued by the TC
provider for the specified protocol address, and that the
.I stream
associated with the specified protocol address has been activated.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
indicates the primitive type.
Always
.BR TC_BIND_ACK .
.TP
.I ADDR_length
is the length of the protocol address that was bound to the
.IR stream .
.TP
.I ADDR_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
block where the protocol address begins.
.TP
.I XACT_number
is the accepted number of transaction association begin indications allowed to be outstanding by the
TC provider for the specified protocol address.
Note that this field does not apply to connectionless (only) TC providers.
.TP
.I TOKEN_value
is unused.
.PP
The proper alignment of the address in the
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block is not guaranteed.
.SH RULES
.PP
The following rules apply to the binding of the specified protocol address to the
.IR stream :
.IP \- 3
If the
.I ADDR_length
field in the
.BR TC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive is 0, then the TC provider is to assign a transaction protocol address to the
TC user.
If the TC provider cannot assign a transaction protocol address, the TC provider will return
.BR "" [ TCNOADDR ] .
.IP \-
The TC provider is to bind the transaction protocol address as specified in the
.BR TC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP \-
If the TC provider cannot bind the specified address the TC provider will return
.BR "" [ TCADDRBUSY ].
.PP
The following rules apply to negotiating the
.I XACT_number
argument:
.IP \- 3
The returned value must be less than or equal to the corresponding requested number as indicated in
the
.BR TC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP \-
If the requested value is greater than zero, the returned value must also be greater than zero.
.IP \-
Only one
.I stream
that is bound to the indicated protocol address may have a negotiated accepted number of maximum
transaction association begin requests greater than zero.
.IP \-
A
.I stream
requesting a
.I XACT_number
of zero should always be valid.
This indicates to the TC provider that the
.I stream
is to be used to request transaction associations only.
.IP \-
A
.I stream
with a negotiated
.I XACT_number
greater than zero may generate transaction association begin requests or accept transaction
association begin indications.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the above rules result in an error condition, then the TC provider must issue an
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive to the TC user specifying the error as defined in the description of the
.BR TC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.SH MODES
.PP
Operation class 1, 2, 3, and 4.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
TC provider.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PCPROTO (9),
.BR TC_BIND_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA

