'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_BEGIN_RES.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/03/30 13:39:35 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:35 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_BEGIN_RES 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TC_BEGIN_RES
\- Connection Response
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks if any user data is specified by the transaction user.
The format of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_begin_res {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TC_CONT_REQ */
    ulong SRC_length;         /* Source address length */
    ulong SRC_offset;         /* Source address offset */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* Options associated with the primitive */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* Options associated wtih the primitive */
    ulong DIALOG_id;          /* Dialog Identifier */
    ulong COMP_flags;         /* For use with ANSI CWP/CWOP */
} TC_begin_res_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive is sent by a transaction user to the TC provider on a listening transaction
endpoint (hereafter, for brevity, referred to as the listener) on which the TC user
received a
.BR TC_BEGIN_IND (7).
This primitive requests that the TC provider should accept the connection indication
identified by
.IR TCANS_id .
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
Always
.BR TC_BEGIN_RES .
.
.TP
.I SRC_length
is the length of the responding protocol address.
.
.TP
.I SRC_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the responding protocol address begins.
.
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the responding options.
.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the responding options begin.
.
.TP
.I DIALOG_id
is the dialogue identifier that uniquely identifies this transaction dialogue.
This must be the same identifier that was received by the TC user in the corresponding
.BR TC_BEGIN_IND (7)
to which this message is responding.
.
.TP
.I COMP_flags
is the responding component flags.
.
.PP
The proper alignment of the options in the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is not guaranteed.
The options in the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block are, however, aligned the same as they were received from the TC user.
.SH RULES
.PP
.PP
This primitive requires the TC provider to generate one of the following acknowledgements
on receipt of the primitive, and the TC user wait for the acknowledgement before issuing
any other primitives:
.SS Successful
Correct acknowledgement of the primitive is indicated via the
.BR TC_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.
.SS Non-fatal errors
These errors will be indicated via the
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ TCACCES ]
This indicates that the TC user did not have proper permissions for the use of the options or
responding address.
.TP
.RB [ TCBADADDR ]
The specified responding protocol address was in an incorrect format or contained illegal
information.
.TP
.RB [ TCBADDATA ]
The amount of TC user data specified was invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TCBADOPT ]
This indicates that the options were in an incorrect format, or they contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ TCBADID ]
The dialogue identifier specified in the primitive was incorrect or invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TCNOTSUPPORT ]
This primitive is not supported by the TC provider.
.TP
.RB [ TCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive would place the transaction interface out of state.
.TP
.RB [ TCSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in the primitive.
.SH MODES
.PP
Operation class 1, 2, or 3.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
TC user.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR TC_BEGIN_IND (7),
.BR TC_ABORT_IND (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA

