'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=groff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_BEGIN_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/06/24 03:28:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/06/24 03:28:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_BEGIN_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TC_BEGIN_IND, TC_QUERY_IND
\- Dialogue Begin Indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks if any TC user data is associated with the primitive.
The format of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_begin_ind {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TC_BEGIN_IND */
    ulong SRC_length;         /* Source address length */
    ulong SRC_offset;         /* Source address offset */
    ulong DEST_length;        /* Destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;        /* Destination address offset */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* Options associated with the primitive */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* Options associated wtih the primitive */
    ulong DIALOG_id;          /* Dialog Identifier */
    ulong COMP_flags;         /* For use with ANSI QWP/QWOP */
} TC_begin_ind_t;

typedef struct TC_begin_ind TC_query_ind;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates to the TC user that an dialogue begin request to the TC user has
been made by the TC user at the specified source address.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
Always
.BR TC_BEGIN_IND .
.TP
.I DEST_length
is the length of the destination address.
The destination address is indicated where it is different from the bound address associated with
the
.I stream
upon which the indication is issued, or when the
.I stream
is bound to more than one address (e.g. a list of application contexts) and the destination address
is more specific than the binding criteria and equivalent information is not contained in the
source address.
.TP
.I DEST_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) where the destination address begins.
.TP
.I SRC_length
is the length of the source address.
.TP
.I SRC_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) where the source address begins.
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the requested options associated with the primitive.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) of the requested options associated with the primitive.
.TP
.I DIALOG_id
is the dialogue identifier assigned by the TC provider to this transaction dialogue.  Dialogue
identifiers provided by the TC provider always have the high bit set to 1 and are different from -1.
The begin indication is always the first message to which the TC provider attaches any newly
assigned dialogue identifier.
.TP
.I COMP_flags
are the component flags for the indication.
.PP
The proper alignment of the destination address, source address, and options in the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is not guaranteed.
.SH MODES
.PP
Operations class 1, 2, and 3.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
TC provider.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR TC_BEGIN_RES (7),
.BR TC_ABORT_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA

