'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_BEGIN_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/10/25 09:16:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/10/25 09:16:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_BEGIN_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/10/25 09:16:11 $" "$Name:  $" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.BR TC_BEGIN_REQ ", " TC_QUERY_REQ
\- Dialogue Begin Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks if any TC user data is specified by the TC user.
The format of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_begin_req {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TC_BEGIN_REQ */
    ulong SRC_length;         /* Source address length */
    ulong SRC_offset;         /* Source address offset */
    ulong DEST_length;        /* Destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;        /* Destination address offset */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* Options associated with the primitive */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* Options associated wtih the primitive */
    ulong DIALOG_id;          /* Dialog Identifier */
    ulong COMP_flags;         /* For use with ANSI QWP/QWOP */
} TC_begin_req_t;

typedef struct TC_begin_req TC_query_req;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the TC provider begin a dialogue with the specified
destination.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
Always
.BR TC_BEGIN_REQ .
.TP
.I SRC_length
is the length of the source address.
.TP
.I SRC_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) where the source address begins.
.TP
.I DEST_length
is the length of the destination address.
.TP
.I DEST_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) where the destination address begins.
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the requested options associated with the primitive.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) of the
requested options associated with the primitive.
.TP
.I DIALOG_id
is the dialogue identifier to be used for the dialogue.
.TP
.I COMP_flags
are the component flags for the dialogue.
.PP
The proper alignment of the destination address, source address, and options in the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is not guaranteed.
The destination address, source address, and options in the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block are however, aligned the same as they were received from the TC user.
.TP 8
.B Note:
The information located by the defined structures may not be in the proper alignment in the message
blocks, so the casting of structure definitions over these fields may produce incorrect results.
It is advised that the TC providers supply exact format specifications for the appropriate
information to the transaction users.
.SH RULES
.PP
If the source address does not differ from the bound address for the requesting
.I stream
it is not necessary to include it, and
.I SRC_length
and
.I SRC_offset
should be set to 0.
.PP
TC user selected transaction identifiers, used in the
.I DIALOG_id
field, must have the high bit set to 0.  Transaction identifiers with the high bit set to 1 are
reserved for assignment by the TC provider.
.PP
This primitive requires the TC provider to generate one of the following acknowledgments on
receipt of the primitive, and the TC user must wait for the acknowledgment before issuing
any other primitives:
.SS Successful
Correct acknowledgment of the primitive is indicated via the
.BR TC_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.
.SS Non-fatal errors
These errors will be indicated via the
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ TCACCES ]
This indicates that the TC user did not have proper permissions for the use of the requested address or
options.
.TP
.RB [ TCBADID ]
This indicates that the
.I DIALOG_id
was invalid or contained illegal information.
.TP
.RB [ TCADDRBUSY ]
The TC provider does not support multiple dialogues to the same destination address.
This error indicates that a dialogue already exists for the requested destination.
.TP
.RB [ TCBADADDR ]
This indicates that the protocol address was in an incorrect format or the address contained invalid
information.
It is not intended to indicate protocol associated errors, such as an unreachable destination.
Those error types are indicated via the
.BR TC_ABORT_IND (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ TCBADDATA ]
The amount of TC user data specified was invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TCBADOPT ]
This indicates that the options were in an incorrect format, or they contained invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ TCNOTSUPPORT ]
This primitive is not supported by the TC provider.
.TP
.RB [ TCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive would place the transaction interface out of state.
.TP
.RB [ TCSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in the primitive.
.SH MODES
.PP
Operation class 1, 2, and 3.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
TC user.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR TC_BEGIN_CON (7),
.BR TC_ABORT_IND (7),
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA

