'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=groff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_CONT_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/10/25 09:16:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/10/25 09:16:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_CONT_IND 7 "$Date: 2004/10/25 09:16:11 $" "$Name:  $" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.BR TC_CONT_IND ", " TC_CONV_IND
\- Dialogue Continue Indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks where each
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block contains at least
one byte of data.
The format of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_cont_ind {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TC_CONT_IND */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* Options associated with the primitive */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* Options associated wtih the primitive */
    ulong DIALOG_id;          /* Dialog Identifier */
    ulong COMP_flags;         /* For use with ANSI CWP/CWOP */
} TC_cont_ind_t;

typedef struct TC_cont_ind TC_conv_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates to the TC user that this message contains components.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
Always
.BR TC_CONT_IND .
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the protocol options associated with the component.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the protocol options begin.
.TP
.I DIALOG_id
is the dialogue identifier to which the components belongs.
.TP
.I COMP_flags
are the component flags.  Component flags are TC provider
specific.
.SH MODES
.PP
Operations class 1, 2, and 3.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
TC provider.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR TC_CONT_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA

