'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=groff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_ERROR_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/10/25 09:16:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/10/25 09:16:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_ERROR_ACK 7 "$Date: 2004/10/25 09:16:12 $" "$Name:  $" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TC_ERROR_ACK
\- Error Acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of a
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_error_ack {
    ulong PRIM_type;
    ulong ERROR_prim;
    ulong TCI_error;
    ulong UNIX_error;
    ulong DIALOG_id;
    ulong INVOKE_id;
} TC_error_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates to the TC user that a non-fatal error has occurred in the last
TC-user-originated primitive.
.PP
For an overview of the error handling capabilities available to the TC provider see
.BR tci (7).
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive.
Always
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK .
.TP
.I ERROR_prim
identifies the primitive type that caused the error
.TP
.I TCI_error
contains the Transaction Component Interface error code.
.TP
.I UNIX_error
contains the Linux system error code.
This may only be non zero if
.I TCI_error
is equal to
.BR TCSYSERR .
.TP
.I DIALOG_id
is the dialogue identifier for the dialogue upon which the primitive caused an error.
.TP
.I INVOKE_id
is the invoke identifier for the operation for which the primtiive cuase and error.
.SH RULES
.PP
This may only be initiated as an acknowledgment for those primitives that require one.
It also indicates to the TC user that no action was taken on the primitive that caused the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The list of Transaction Interface error codes follows:
.TP 16
.BR "" [ TCBADADDR ]
Incorrect address format/illegal address information.
.TP
.BR "" [ TCBADOPT ]
Options in incorrect format or contain illegal information.
.TP
.BR "" [ TCACCESS ]
User did not have proper permissions.
.TP
.BR "" [ TCNOADDR ]
TC Provider could not allocate address.
.TP
.BR "" [ TCOUTSTATE ]
Primitive was issues in wrong sequence.
.TP
.BR "" [ TCBADSEQ ]
Sequence number in primitive was incorrect/illegal.
.TP
.BR "" [ TCSYSERR ]
UNIX system error occurred.
.TP
.BR "" [ TCBADDATA ]
User data spec. outside range supported by TC provider.
.TP
.BR "" [ TCBADFLAG ]
Flags specified in primitive were illegal/incorrect.
.TP
.BR "" [ TCNOTSUPPORT ]
Primitive type not supported by the TC provider.
.TP
.BR "" [ TCBOUND ]
Illegal second attempt to bind listener or default listener.
.TP
.BR "" [ TCBADQOSPARAM ]
QOS values specified are outside the range supported by the TC provider.
.TP
.BR "" [ TCBADQOSTYPE ]
QOS structure type specified is not supported by the TC provider.
.TP
.BR "" [ TCBADTOKEN ]
Token used is not associated with an open stream.
.TP
.BR "" [ TCNOPROTOID ]
Protocol id could not be allocated.
.SH MODES
.PP
Operation class 1, 2, 3, and 4.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
TC provider.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PCPROTO (9),
.BR TC_OK_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA

