'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=groff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_END_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2005/01/26 07:58:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_END_REQ 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:05 $" "$Name:  $" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.BR TC_END_REQ ", " TC_RESP_REQ
\- Dialogue End Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block
followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks if any TC user data is associated with the primitive.
The format of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_end_req {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TC_END_REQ */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* Options associated with the primitive */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* Options associated wtih the primitive */
    ulong DIALOG_id;          /* Dialog Identifier */
    ulong TERM_scenario;      /* Reason for termination */
} TC_end_req_t;

typedef struct TC_end_req TC_resp_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates to the TC provider that the TC user is finished sending data.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
Always
.BR TC_END_REQ .
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the protocol options associated with the primitive and any TC user data.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the protocol options begin.
.TP
.I DIALOG_id
is the dialogue identifier for the dialogue to which the request applies.
.TP
.I TERM_scenario
is the termination scenario.  Termination scenarios are TC provider specific.
.SH RULES
.PP
This primitive does not require any acknowledgments, although it may generate a fatal error.
This is indicated via a
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message type which results in the failure of all operating system service routines on the stream.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP 16
.RB [ EPROTO ]
This indicates the unrecoverable protocol condition that the primitive would place the interface in
an incorrect state.
.SH MODES
.PP
Operations class 1, 2, or 3.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
TC user.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR M_ERROR (9),
.BR TC_END_IND (7),
.BR TC_ABORT_REQ (7),
.BR TC_ABORT_IND (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA

