'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_ERROR_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2005/01/26 07:58:10 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:10 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_ERROR_IND 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:10 $" "$Name:  $" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TC_ERROR_IND
\- Operation Error Indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
messae blocks if any operation parameters are indicated by the TC provider.
The format of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_error_ind {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TC_ERROR_IND */
    ulong DIALOG_id;          /* Dialog Identifier */
    ulong INVOKE_id;          /* Invoke Identifier */
    ulong ERROR_code;         /* Error code */
} TC_error_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates an error in an operation following a dialogue handling message.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
is the primitive type.
Always
.BR TC_ERROR_IND .
.TP
.I DIALOG_id
is the dialogue identifier to which the component belongs.
.TP
.I INVOKE_id
is the TC provider assigned invocation identifier for this operation.
.TP
.I ERROR_code
is the error code providing a reason for the error.  Error codes are TC provider specific.
.SH RULES
.PP
Component handling indication primitives are issued after the corresponding Dialogue handling
primitives that indication reception of the following components.  See
.BR tci (7)
for more detail.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
TC provider.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR TC_UNI_IND (7),
.BR TC_BEGIN_IND (7),
.BR TC_CONT_IND (7),
.BR TC_END_IND (7),
.BR TC_ERROR_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
