'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=groff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_INFO_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/10/25 09:16:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/10/25 09:16:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_INFO_ACK 7 "$Date: 2004/10/25 09:16:12 $" "$Name:  $" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TC_INFO_ACK
\- Protocol Information Acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of a
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_info_ack {
    long PRIM_type;           /* always TC_INFO_ACK */
    long TSDU_size;           /* maximum TSDU size */
    long ETSDU_size;          /* maximum ETSDU size */
    long CDATA_size;          /* connect data size */
    long DDATA_size;          /* disconnect data size */
    long ADDR_size;           /* maximum address size */
    long OPT_size;            /* maximum options size */
    long TIDU_size;           /* transaction interface data size */
    long SERV_type;           /* service type */
    long CURRENT_state;       /* current state */
    long PROVIDER_flag;       /* provider flags */
    long TCI_version;         /* TCI version */
} TC_info_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates to the TC user any relevant protocol-dependent parameters.
It should be initiated in response to the
.BR TC_INFO_REQ (7)
primitive described above.
The format of this message is one
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
This indicates the primitive type.
.TP
.I TSDU_size
A value greater than zero specifies the maximum size of a transaction service data unit (TSDU); a
value of zero specifies that the TC provider does not support the concept of TSDU, although
it does support the sending of a data stream with no logical boundaries preserved across an
association; a value of -1 specifies that there is no limit on the size of a TSDU; and a value of -2
specifies that the transfer of normal data is not supported by the TC provider.
.TP
.I ETSDU_size
A value greater than zero specifies the maximum size of an expedited transaction service data unit
(ETSDU); a value of zero specifies that the TC provider does not support the concept of
ETSDU, although it does support the sending of an expedited data stream with no logical boundaries
preserved across an assocation; a value of -1 specifies that there is no limit on the size of an
ETSDU; and a value of -2 specifies that the transfer of expedited data is not supported by the
TC provider.
.TP
.I CDATA_size
A value greater than or equal to zero specifies the maximum amount of data that may be associated
with association establishment primitives; and a value of -2 specifies that the TC provider
does not allow data to be sent with association establishment primitives.
.TP
.I DDATA_size
A value greater than or equal to zero specifies the maximum amount of data that may be associated
with the association termination primitives; and a value of -2 specifies that the TC provider does not
allow data to be sent with the association termination primitives.
.TP
.I ADDR_size
A value greater than or equal to zero indicates the maximum size of a transaction protocol address;
and a value of -2 specifies that the TC provider does not provide TC user access to
transaction protocol addresses.
.TP
.I OPT_size
A value greater than or equal to zero indicates the maximum number of bytes of protocol-specific
options supported by the TC provider; and a value of -2 specifies that the TC provider does
not support TC user-settable options.
.TP
.I TIDU_size
This is the amount of TC user data that may be present in a single
.BR TC_CONT_REQ (7)
primitive.
This is the size of the transaction protocol interface data unit, and should not exceed the tunable
system limit, if non-zero, for the size of a
.IR STREAMS (4)
message.
.TP
.I SERV_type
This field specifies the service type supported by the TC provider, and is a bitwize OR of
zero or more of the following:
.RS
.TP 14
.B TC_OPCLASS1
The TC provider service is operation class 1.
.TP
.B TC_OPCLASS2
The TC provider service is operation class 2.
.TP
.B TC_OPCLASS3
The TC provider service is operation class 3.
.TP
.B TC_OPCLASS4
The TC provider service is operation class 4.
.RE
.TP
.I CURRENT_state
This is the current state of the TC provider.
.TP
.I PROVIDER_flag
This field specifies additional properties specific to the TC provider and may alter the
way the TC user communicates.
The following flags may be set by the TC provider:
.RS
.TP 14
.B SENDZERO
This flag indicates that the TC provider supports the sending of zero-length TSDUs.
.TP
.B XPG4_1
This flag indicates that the TC provider supports XPG4 semantics.
.RE
.TP
.I TCI_version
is the version of the interface.
.SH RULES
.PP
The following rules apply when the type of service is
.BR TC_CLTS :
.IP - 3
The ETSDU_size, CDATA_size and DDATA_size fields should be -2.
.IP -
The TSDU_size should equal the TIDU_size.
.SH MODES
.PP
Operation classes 1, 2, 3, and 4.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
TC provider.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PCPROTO (9),
.BR TC_CONT_REQ (7),
.BR TC_INFO_REQ (7),
.BR TC_ADDR_REQ (7),
.BR TC_ADDR_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA

