'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=groff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_OPTMGMT_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/03/30 13:39:36 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:36 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_OPTMGMT_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME 
.PP
.B TC_OPTMGMT_ACK
\- Option Management Acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of a
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_optmgmt_ack {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TC_OPTMGMT_ACK */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* options length */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* options offset */
    ulong MGMT_flags;         /* options data flags */
} TC_optmgmt_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This indicates to the TC user that the options management request has completed.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
indicates the primitive type
Always
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_ACK .
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the protocol options associated with the primitive
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
block where the options begin.
The proper alignment of the options is not guaranteed.
.TP
.I MGMT_flags
should be the same as those specified in the
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive with any additional flags as specified below.
.SH RULES
.PP
The following rules apply to the
.B TC_OPTMGMT_ACK
primitive.:
.IP - 3
If the value of
.I MGMT_flags
in the
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive is
.BR TC_DEFAULT ,
the TC provider should return the default TC provider options without changing the existing options
associated with the
.IR stream .
.IP -
If the value of
.I MGMT_flags
in the
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive is
.BR TC_CHECK ,
the TC provider should return the options as specified in the
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive along with the additional flags
.BR TC_SUCCESS " or " TC_FAILURE
which indicate to the TC user whether the specified options are supportable by the TC provider.
The TC provider should not change any existing options associated with the
.IR stream .
.IP -
If the value of
.I MGMT_flags
in the
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive is
.BR TC_NEGOTIATE ,
the TC provider should set and negotiate the option as specified by the following rules:
.RS
.IP - 3
If the
.I OPT_length
field of the
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive is 0, then the TC provider is to set and return the default options associated
with the
.I stream
in the
.B TC_OPTMGMT_ACK
primitive.
.IP -
If options are specified in the
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive, then the TC provider should negotiate those options, set the negotiated options
and return the negotiated options in the
.B TC_OPTMGMT_ACK
primitive.
It is the TC user's responsibility to check the negotiated options returned in the
.B TC_OPTMGMT_ACK
primitive and take appropriate action.
.RE
.IP - 3
If the value of
.I MGMT_flags
in the
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive is
.BR TC_CURRENT ,
the TC provider should return the currently effective option values without changing any existing
options associated with the
.IR stream .
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the above rules result in an error condition, the TC provider must issue a
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive to the TC user specifying the error as defined in the description of the
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive.
.SH MODES
.PP
Operations class 1, 2, 3, and 4.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
TC provider.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PCPROTO (9),
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
