'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=groff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_OPTMGMT_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2005/01/26 07:58:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_OPTMGMT_REQ 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:11 $" "$Name:  $" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TC_OPTMGMT_REQ
\- Options Management
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of a
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_optmgmt_req {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TC_OPTMGMT_REQ */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* options length */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* options offset */
    ulong MGMT_flags;         /* options data flags */
} TC_optmgmt_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive allows the TC user to manage the options associated with the
.IR stream .
The format of the message is one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
indicates the primitive type
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the protocol options associated with the primitive
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
block where the options begin.
.TP
.I MGMT_flags
are the flags which define the request made by the TC user.
The allowable flags are:
.RS
.TP 12
.B TC_NEGOTIATE
Negotiate and set the options with the TC provider
.TP
.B TC_CHECK
Check the validity of the specified options
.TP
.B TC_DEFAULT
Return the default options
.TP
.B TC_CURRENT
Return the currently effective option values.
.RE
.PP
The proper alignment of the options is not guaranteed.
The options are, however, aligned the same as received from the TC user.
.SH RULES
.PP
For the rules governing the requests made by this primitive see the
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_ACK (7)
primitive.
.PP
This primitive requires the TC provider to generate one of the following acknowledgments on
receipt of the primitive, and that the TC user wait for the acknowledgment before issuing
any other primitives:
.SS Successful
Acknowledgment of the primitive via the
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_ACK (7).
.SS Non-fatal errors
These errors will be indicated via the
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ TCACCES ]
The TC user did not have proper permissions for the use of the requested options.
.TP
.RB [ TCBADFLAG ]
The flags as specified were incorrect or invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TCBADOPT ]
The options as specified were in an incorrect format, or they contained
invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ TCOUTSTATE ]
The primitive would place the transaction interface out of state.
.TP
.RB [ TCNOTSUPPORT ]
This primitive is not supported by the TC provider.
.TP
.RB [ TCSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in the primitive.
.SH MODES
.PP
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
TC user.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_ACK (7),
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA

