'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_REJECT_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2006/04/05 09:43:17 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:17 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: TC_REJECT_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:43:17  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_REJECT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TC_REJECT_REQ
\- Operation Reject Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_reject_req {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TC_REJECT_REQ */
    ulong DIALOG_id;          /* Dialog Identifier */
    ulong INVOKE_id;          /* Invoke identifier */
    ulong PROBLEM_code;       /* Problem code */
} TC_reject_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive returns a reject for an operation in a subsequent dialogue handling message.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
is the primitive type.
Always
.BR TC_REJECT_REQ .
.TP
.I DIALOG_id
is the dialogue identifier to which the component will belong.
This must be the same as the
.I DIALOG_id
from the corresponding
.BR TC_INVOKE_IND
primitive.
.TP
.I INVOKE_id
is the TC user assigned invocation identifier for this operation.
This must be the same as the
.I INVOKE_id
from the corresponding
.BR TC_INVOKE_IND
primitive.
.TP
.I PROBLEM_code
is the problem code providing a reason for the rejection.  Problem codes are TC provider specific.
.SH RULES
.PP
The
.I DIALOG_id
and
.I INVOKE_id
is used by the TC provider to correlate the reject to the invocation.
The
.I DIALOG_id
and
.I INVOKE_id
must be the same as those from the corresponding
.BR TC_INVOKE_IND (7)
primitive.
.PP
Component handling request primitives are issued before the corresponding Dialogue handling
primitives that transmit the accumulated components.  See
.BR tci (7)
for more detail.
.PP
This primitive does not require any acknowledgement.
If a non-fatal error occurs, it is the responsibility of the TC provider to report it using the
.BR TR_ERROR_IND (7),
.BR TR_NOTICE_IND (7),
or
.BR TR_ABORT_IND (7)
primitives.
Fatal errors are indicated using a
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message type which results in the failure of all operating system service routines on the
.IR stream .
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The allowable fatal errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.BR "" [ EPROTO ]
This indicates one of the following unrecoverable protocol conditions:
.RS
.IP \- 3
The transaction component interface was found to be in an incorrect state.
.RE
.SH MODES
.PP
Operation class 1 or 2.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
TC user.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR TC_REJECT_IND (7),
.BR TC_INVOKE_IND (7),
.BR TC_ERROR_IND (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA

