'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_RESULT_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/10/25 09:16:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/10/25 09:16:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_RESULT_IND 7 "$Date: 2004/10/25 09:16:13 $" "$Name:  $" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TC_RESULT_IND
\- Operation Return Result Indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
messae blocks if any operation parameters are indicated by the TC provider.
The format of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_result_ind {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TC_RESULT_IND */
    ulong DIALOG_id;          /* Dialog Identifier */
    ulong INVOKE_id;          /* Invoke Identifier */
    ulong OPERATION;          /* Requested operation result */
    ulong MORE_flag;          /* Not last */
} TC_result_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates the result of an operation following a dialogue handling message.
.PP
The primitive has a mechanism for specifying whether this is the last group of parameters associated
with the result.  Multiple
.B TC_RESULT_IND
primitives that make up the same result are the same in all respects except for the
.IR MORE_flag .
The
.I MORE_flag
on the last
.B TC_RESULT_IND
is set to non-zero to indicate that the primitive is the last of a sequence of primitives making up
the same result.
Not all TC providers provide this mechanism.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
is the primitive type.
Always
.BR TC_RESULT_IND .
.TP
.I DIALOG_id
is the dialogue identifier to which the component belongs.
.TP
.I INVOKE_id
is the TC provider assigned invocation identifier for this operation.
.TP
.I OPERATION
is the operation code.  Operation codes are TC provider specific.
.TP
.I MORE_flag
is a flag indicating if this is the last result in the operation.  When this field is non-zero, it
indicates that this is the last sequence of parameters in the operation result.
.SH RULES
.PP
Component handling indication primitives are issued after the corresponding Dialogue handling
primitives that indication reception of the following components.  See
.BR tci (7)
for more detail.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
TC provider.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR TC_UNI_IND (7),
.BR TC_BEGIN_IND (7),
.BR TC_CONT_IND (7),
.BR TC_END_IND (7),
.BR TC_RESULT_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
