'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_REJECT_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2005/01/26 07:58:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_REJECT_IND 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:11 $" "$Name:  $" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TC_REJECT_IND
\- Operation Reject Indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_reject_ind {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TC_REJECT_IND */
    ulong DIALOG_id;          /* Dialog Identifier */
    ulong INVOKE_id;          /* Invoke identifier */
    ulong ORIGINATOR;         /* Either User, Local or Remote */
    ulong PROBLEM_code;       /* Problem code */
} TC_reject_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates a reject for an operation following a dialogue handling message.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
is the primitive type.
Always
.BR TC_REJECT_IND .
.TP
.I DIALOG_id
is the dialogue identifier to which the component will belong.
This must be the same as the
.I DIALOG_id
from the corresponding
.BR TC_INVOKE_REQ
primitive.
.TP
.I INVOKE_id
is the TC user assigned invocation identifier for this operation.
This must be the same as the
.I INVOKE_id
from the corresponding
.BR TC_INVOKE_REQ
primitive.
.TP
.I ORIGINATOR
is the location of the originator of the rejection.  Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 16
.B TC_USER
The rejecting entity was the remote TC user.
.TP
.B TC_LOC_PROV
The rejecting entity was the local TC provider.
.TP
.B TC_REM_PROV
The rejecting entity was the remote TC provider.
.TP
.B TC_PROVIDER
The rejecting entity was the TC provider.
.TP
.B TC_UNSPEC
The rejecting entity was unspecified.
.RE
.TP
.I PROBLEM_code
is the problem code providing a reason for the rejection.  Problem codes are TC provider specific.
.SH RULES
.PP
The
.I DIALOG_id
and
.I INVOKE_id
is used by the TC user to correlate the reject to the invocation.
The
.I DIALOG_id
and
.I INVOKE_id
must be the same as those from the corresponding
.BR TC_INVOKE_IND (7)
primitive.
.PP
Component handling indication primitives are issued after the corresponding Dialogue handling
primitives that indication reception of the following components.  See
.BR tci (7)
for more detail.
.SH MODES
.PP
Operation class 1 or 2.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
TC provider.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR TC_REJECT_IND (7),
.BR TC_INVOKE_IND (7),
.BR TC_ERROR_IND (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA

