'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=groff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_UNI_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/10/25 09:16:14 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/10/25 09:16:14 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_UNI_IND 7 "$Date: 2004/10/25 09:16:14 $" "$Name:  $" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TC_UNI_IND
\- Unidirectional Indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks where each
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block contains at least one byte of data.  The format of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_uni_ind {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TC_UNI_IND */
    ulong SRC_length;         /* Source address length */
    ulong SRC_offset;         /* Source address offset */
    ulong DEST_length;        /* Destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;        /* Destination address offset */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* Options associated with the primitive */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* Options associated wtih the primitive */
    ulong DIALOG_id;          /* Dialog Identifier */
    ulong COMP_flags;         /* Components preset flag */
} TC_uni_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates to the TC user that a unidirectional tranasction has been received from the
specified source address.
.PP
Components to be delivered from the unstructured dialogue will be indicated using the component
handling indication primitives.  An Application Context will be present where there is User
Information in attached
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
Always
.BR TC_UNI_IND .
.TP
.I SRC_length
is the length of the source address.
.TP
.I SRC_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) where the source address begins. 
.TP
.I DEST_length
is the length of the destination address.
.TP
.I DEST_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) where the destination address begins. 
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the requested options associated with the primitive.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) of the requested options associated with the primitive. 
.TP
.I DIALOG_id
is the dialogue identifier for the transaction.
.TP
.I COMP_flasg
are the component flags associated with the primitive.  Component flags are TC provider specific.
.PP
The proper alignment of the destination address, source address and options in the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is not guaranteed. 
.SH RULES
.IP \(em 4
When QoS is provided by SCCP, QoS must be pased up to the TC-User.
.IP \(em
When Application Context is provided in the corresponding message, it must be passed up in the
indication.
.SH MODES
.PP
Operation class 4.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
TC provider.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR TC_UNI_REQ (7),
.BR TC_NOTICE_IND (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA

