'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TC_UNI_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2006/04/05 09:43:17 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:17 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: TC_UNI_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:43:17  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TC_UNI_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TC_UNI_REQ
\- Unidirectional Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks where each
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block contains zero or more bytes of data.
The format of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TC_uni_req {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TC_UNI_REQ */
    ulong SRC_length;         /* Source address length */
    ulong SRC_offset;         /* Source address offset */
    ulong DEST_length;        /* Destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;        /* Destination address offset */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* Options associated with the primitive */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* Options associated wtih the primitive */
    ulong DIALOG_id;          /* Dialog Identifier */
} TC_uni_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the TC provider send the specified unidirectional to the
specified destination.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
Always
.BR TC_UNI_REQ .
.TP
.I SRC_length
is the length of the source address
.TP
.I SRC_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) where the source address begins.
.TP
.I DEST_length
is the length of the destination address
.TP
.I DEST_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) where the destination address begins.
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the requested options associated with the primitive.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) of the requested options associated with the primitive.
.TP
.I DIALOG_id
is the dialogue identifier.
.PP
The proper alignment of the destination address, source address and options in the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is not guaranteed.
The destination address and options in the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block are, however, aligned the same as they were received from the TC user.
.PP
This primitive does not require any acknowledgment.
If a non-fatal error occurs, it is the responsibility of the TC provider to report it using
the
.BR TC_NOTICE_IND (7)
indication.
Fatal errors are indicated using a
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message type which results in the failure of all operating system service routines on the stream. 
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The allowable fatal errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ EPROTO ]
This indicates one of the following unrecoverable protocol conditions:
.RS
.IP - 3
The transaction service interface was found to be in an incorrect state.
.IP -
The amount of TC user data associated with the primitive defines an transaction service
data unit larger than that allowed by the TC provider.
.RE
.SH MODES
.PP
Operation class 4.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
TC user.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.B <ss7/tc.h>
\- the transaction component interface header file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tci (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR M_ERROR (9),
.BR TC_UNI_IND (7),
.BR TC_NOTICE_IND (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Component Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA

