'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: tci.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2005/01/26 07:58:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TCI 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:15 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS"
.SH NAME
.B TCI
\- Transaction Component Interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This document specifies a
.IR STREAMS (4)-based
kernel-level instantiation of the ITU-T Q.771 TCAP  TC service definition.
.[
q.771
.]
The Transaction Component Interace (TCI) enable the user of a TCAP/ROSE service to access and use
any of a variety of conforming TCAP/ROSE service providers without specific knowledge of the
provider's protocol.
The service interface is designed to support any class of remote operations service protocol.
This interface only specifies access to the TCAP/ROSE layer service providers, and does not address
issues concerning TCAP/ROSE management, protocol performance and performance analysis tools.
.PP
The specification assumes that the reader is facmiliar with SS7 terminology,
.[
q.700
.]
ISO/OSI reference model terminology,
.[
x.210
.]
the Transaction Capabilities Application Part (Q.771),
.[
q.771
.]
ISO/CCITT Remote Operations Service Element (ROSE) service (X.219),
.[
x.219
.]
and
.IR STREAMS (4).
.[
svid
.]
.PP
.B TCI
specifies an interface that supports the services provided by the Transaction Capabilities
Application Part
.BR "" ( tcap (4))
for ITU-T applications as described in ITU-T Recommendation Q.771.
.[
q.771
.]
.B TCI also supportes the Remote Operations Service Element (ROSE) described in ITU-T Recommendation
X.219.
.[
x.219
.]
These manual pages are targeted for use by developers and tersters of protocol modules that require
transaction component service.
.SS "The Component Sub-Layer"
.PP
The Transaction Component Sub-Layer
.[
q.771
.]
provides a subset of the ROSE services interface.
.[
x.219
.]
The component sub-layer provides a means to manage transactions between applications.
It is responsible for the remote operation service execution between application service entities.
.SS "Model of the TCI"
.PP
The
.B TCI
defines the services provided by the transaction component sub-layer tot the transaction component
user at the boundary between the trasnaction component sub-layer and the application or transaction
component user entity.
For TCAP, this is the interface between the TC sub-layer and the TC-user.
.[
q.771
.]
For ISO/OSI, this is the interface between the ROSE
.[
x.219
.]
and the application.
.PP
The interface consists of a set of primitives defined as
.IR STREAMS (4)
messages that provide access to the trasnaction componet sub-layer services, and are transferred
between the transaction component service user entity and the transaction component service
provider.
These primitives are of two types: ones that originate from the transaction component service user,
and others that originate from the transaction component service provider.
The primitives that originate from the transaction component service user make requests to the
transaction component service provider, or respond to an indication of an event of the transaction
component service provider.
The primitives that originate from the transaction component service provider are either
confirmations of a user request, or are indications to the transaction component service user that
an event has occurred.
.PP
The
.B TCI
allows the transaction component service provider to be configured with any transaction component
sub-layer (such as any of the TCAP National variants, TUA, or even an OSI ROSE provider) that
conforms to the
.BR TCI .
A transaction component sub-layer user can also be a user program that conforms to the
.B TCI
and accesses the transaction component service provider via
.BR putmsg (2)
and
.BR getmsg (2)
system calls.
.SS "TCI Services"
.PP
The features of the
.B TCI
are defined in terms of the services provided by the transaction component service provider, and the
individual primitives that may flow between the transaction component service user and the
transaction component service provider.
.PP
The services supported by the
.B TCI
are based on four distinct classes of operation: operation classes 1, 2, 3 and 4.
Also, the
.B TCI
supports services for local management.
.TP
.B Operation Class 1
The main features of operations class 1 are:
.RS
.IP a. 4
Operation success is reported;
.IP b.
operation failure is reported.
.PP
There are three phases to each transaction: Transaction Initiation, Transaction Component Transfer,
and Transaction Termination; however, all three phases in operation class 1 can be combined into a
single exchange of primitives.
Transaction components arrive at their destination in the same order as they departed their source
and the data is protected against duplication or loss of components within some specified quality of
service.
.PP
TCAP operation class 1 corresponds to ROSE protocol class 2.
.RE
.TP
.B Operation Class 2
The main features of operations class 2 are:
.RS
.IP a. 4
Operation success is
.I not
reported;
.IP b.
operation failure is reported.
.PP
There are three phases to each transaction: Transaction Initiation, Transaction Component Transfer,
and Transaction Termination; however, all three phases in operation class 2 can be combined into a
single exchange of primitives.
Transaction components arrive at their destination in the same order as they departed their source
and the data is protected against duplication or loss of components within some specified quality of
service.
.PP
TCAP operation class 2 corresponds to ROSE protocol class 3.
.RE
.TP
.B Operation Class 3
The main features of operations class 3 are:
.RS
.IP a. 4
Operation success is reported;
.IP b.
operation failure is
.I not
reported.
.PP
There are three phases to each transaction: Transaction Initiation, Transaction Component Transfer,
and Transaction Termination; however, all three phases in operation class 3 can be combined into a
single exchange of primitives.
Transaction components arrive at their destination in the same order as they departed their source
and the data is protected against duplication or loss of components within some specified quality of
.PP
TCAP operation class 3 corresponds to ROSE protocol class 4.
.RE
.TP
.B Operation Class 4
The main features of operations class 4 are:
.RS
.IP a. 4
Operation success is
.I not
reported;
.IP b.
operation failure is
.I not
reported.
.PP
Operation class 4 has no structure to the transaction and no separate phases.
Each transaction component is transmitted from source to destination independently.
Appropriate addressing information is included with each component sequence.
As the components are transmitted independently from source to destination, there are, in general no
guarantees of proper sequencing and completeness of the data transmission.
.PP
TCAP operation class 4 corresponds to ROSE protocol class 5.
.RE
.TP
.B Local Management
The
.B TCI
specifications also define a set of local management functions that apply to all operations classes.
These services have local significance only.
.PP
Tables 1, 2, and 3 summarize the
.B TCI
service primitives by their state and service.
.PP
.TS
center tab(:);
cbss.
Table 1.  Service Primitives for Local Management
.T&
|lb|lb|lb|
|l|l|l|.
_
State:Service:Primitives
=
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Local Management
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Information Reporting
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TC_INFO_REQ (7),
.BR TC_INFO_ACK (7),
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
T}
:_:_
:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Bind
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TC_BIND_REQ (7),
.BR TC_BIND_ACK (7),
.BR TC_UNBIND_REQ (7),
.BR TC_OK_ACK (7),
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
T}
:_:_
:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Options Manaement
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_ACK (7),
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
T}
_
.T&
cbss.

Table 2.  Service Primitives for Op Class 1, 2, and 3
.T&
|lb|lb|lb|
|l|l|l|.
_
State:Service:Primitives
=
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Transaction Initiation
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Transaction Begin
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TC_BEGIN_REQ (7),
.BR TC_BEGIN_IND (7),
.BR TC_BEGIN_RES (7),
.BR TC_BEGIN_CON (7),
.BR TC_OK_ACK (7),
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7).
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Transaction Data Transfer
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Transaction Continue
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TC_CONT_REQ (7),
.BR TC_CONT_IND (7)
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Transaction Release
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Transaction End
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TC_END_REQ (7),
.BR TC_END_IND (7)
T}
:_:_
:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Transaction Abort
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TC_ABORT_REQ (7),
.BR TC_ABORT_IND (7)
T}
_
.T&
cbss.

Table 3.  Service Primitives for Op Class 4
.T&
|lb|lb|lb|
|l|l|l|.
_
State:Service:Primitives
=
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Transaction Unit Data
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Transaction Unidirectional
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TC_UNI_REQ (7),
.BR TC_UNI_IND (7)
T}
_
.T&
cbss.

Table 4.  Service Primitives for Component Handling
.T&
|lb|lb|lb|
|l|l|l|.
_
State:Service:Primitives
=
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Component Handling
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Operation Invocation
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TC_INVOKE_REQ (7),
.BR TC_INVOKE_IND (7)
T}
:_:_
:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Operation Result
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TC_RESULT_REQ (7),
.BR TC_RESULT_IND (7)
T}
:_:_
:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Operation Error
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TC_ERROR_REQ (7),
.BR TC_ERROR_IND (7),
T}
:_:_
:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Operation Cancellation
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TC_CANCEL_REQ (7),
.BR TC_CANCEL_IND (7)
T}
:_:_
:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Operation Rejection
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TC_REJECT_REQ (7),
.BR TC_REJECT_IND (7)
T}
_
.TE
.sp 2
.SH "TCI Services Definition"
.PP
This section describes the services of the
.B TCI
primitives.
Time-sequence diagrams
.[
x.210
.]
tht illustrate the sequence of primitives are used.
The format of the primitives are defined in individual manual pages.
.SS "Local Management Services Definition"
.PP
The services defined in this section are outside the scope of the international standards.
These services apply to all operation classes.
They are invoked for the intialization or tear down of a
.I stream
connected to the TC-provider.
They are also used to manage options supported by the TC-provider and to report information on the
supported parameter values.
.TP
.B Transaction Information Reporting Service:-
.PP
This service provides information on the options supported by the TC-provider.
The transaction information reporting service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TC_INFO_REQ (7):
This primitive requests that the TC-provider return the values of all the supported protocol
paraemters.
This request may be invoked during any phase.
This primtiive requires local acknowledgement using the
.BR TC_INFO_ACK (7)
or
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitives.
.IP \(em
.BR TC_INFO_ACK (7):
This primitive is in reponse to the
.BR TC_INFO_REQ (7)
primitive and returns the values of the supported protocol parameters to the TC-user.
.TP
.B TC User Bind Service:-
.PP
This service allows an originating address to be associated with a
.IR stream .
It allow the TC-user to negotiated the number of outstanding transaction begin indications that can
remain unakcnowledged for that TC-user (a transaction begin indication is considered unacknowledged
while it is awaiting a corresponding transaction begin response or abort request from the TC-user).
This service also defines a mechanism that allows a
.I stream
(bound to the address of the TC-user) to be reserved to handle incoming transction begin indications
only.
This
.I stream
is referred to as the
.IR "" \(lq "listener stream" \(rq.
The TC user bind service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TC_BIND_REQ (7):
This primitive requests that the TC-user be bound to a particular originating address, and
negotiate the number of allowable outstanding transaction begin indications for that address.
This primitive requires local acknowledgement using the
.BR TC_BIND_ACK (7)
or
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitives.
.IP \(em
.BR TC_BIND_ACK (7):
This primitive is in response to the
.BR TC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive and indicates to the TC-user that the specified TC-user has been bound to an originating
address.
.TP
.B TC User Unbind Service:-
.PP
This service allows the TC-user to be unbound from an originating address.
The TC user unbind service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TC_UNBIND_REQ (7):
This primitive requests that the TC-user be unbound from the originating address to which it had
been previously bound.
This primitive requires local acknowledgement using the
.BR TC_OK_ACK (7)
or
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.B Receipt Acknowledgement Service:-
.PP
This service provides the TC-user with local acknowledgement for primitives that require local
ackwowledgement.
The receipt acknowledgement service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TC_OK_ACK (7):
This primitive indicates to the TC-user that the previous TC-user originated primitive was received
successfully by the TC-provider.
.TP
.B Error Acknowledgement Service:-
.PP
This service provides the TC-user with local error acknowledgement for primitives that require local
acknowledgement.
The error acknowledgement service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7):
This primitive indicates to the TC-user that a non-fatal error has occured in the last TC-user
originated request or response primitive (see
.BR "" \(lq "ERROR HANDLING" \(rq)
on the
.IR stream .
.TP
.B Options Management Service:-
.PP
This service allows the TC-user to manage the protocol option values associated with the
TC-provider.
The options management service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7):
This primitive allows the TC-user to select default values for protocol options within the range
supported by the TC-provider, and to indicate the default selection of return option.
This primtiive requires local acknowledgement using the
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_ACK (7)
or
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.IP \(em
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_ACK (7):
This primitive is in response to the
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive and indicats the protocol options negotiated on the
.I stream .
.SS "Operation Class 1, 2, and 3 Transaction Services Definition"
.PP
This section describes the required transaction service primitives that define the operation class
1, 2, and 3, structured transaction interface.
.TP
.B Transaction Initiation:-
.TP
.I User Primitives for Successful Transaction Establishment
.PP
The following user primtiives support Operations Class 1, 2, or 3, Phase I (Transaction
Establishment) services:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TC_BEGIN_REQ (7):
This primitive requests that the TC-provider form a stransaction dialogue with the specified
destination TC-user.
This primitive requires local acknowledgement using the
.BR TC_OK_ACK (7)
or
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.IP \(em
.BR TC_BEGIN_RES (7):
This primitive requests that the TC-provider accept a previous transaction begin indication.
This primitive requires local acknowledgement using the
.BR TC_OK_ACK (7)
or
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.TP
.I Provider Primitives for Successful Transaction Establishment
.PP
The following primitives support Operations Class 1, 2, or 3, Phase I (Transaction Establishment)
servics:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TC_BEGIN_IND (7):
This primitive indicates to the TC-user that a transaction dialogue request has been made at the
specified originating address, and is assigned the specified dialogue identifier.
.IP \(em
.BR TC_BEGIN_CON (7):
This primitive indicats to the TC-user that a transaction initiation request has been confirmed on
the specified responding address, and is assigned the specified dialogue identifier.
.TP
.B Transaction Component Transfer:-
.PP
Flow control on the transaction dialogue is done by management of queue capacify, and by allowin
primitives of certain types to be inserted into the queues.
.TP
.I Primitives for Component Transfer
.PP
The following primitives support Operation Class 1, 2, or 3, Phase II (Transaction Component
Transfer) services:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TC_CONT_REQ (7):
This primitive requests that the TC-provider transfer the specified componets.
This primitive does not require local acknaowledgement by may generate a fatal error.
.IP \(em
.BR TC_CONT_IND (7):
This primitive indicats to the TC-user that this messag contains components.
.TP
.B Transcation Termination:-
.PP
The transaction dialogue termination procedure is initialized by insertion of an end or abort
primitive into the queue.
.TP
.I Primitives for Transaction Termination
.PP
The following primitives support Operations Class 1, 2, or 3, Phase III (Transaction Termination)
services:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TC_END_REQ (7):
This primitive requests that the TC-provider terminate an outstanding request for a transaction
dialogue or normal termination of an existing transaction dialogue.
This primitive requires local acknowledgement using the
.BR TC_OK_ACK (7)
or
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.IP \(em
.BR TC_ABORT_REQ (7):
This primitive requsts that the TC-provider deny an outstanding request for a transaction dialogue
or abnormal termination of an existing transaction dialogue.
This primitive requires local acknowledgement using the
.BR TC_OK_ACK (7)
or
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.IP \(em
.BR TC_END_IND (7):
This primitive indicates to the TC-user that either a request for transaction dialogue initiation
has been completed or an existing transaction dialogue has been terminated normally.
.IP \(em
.BR TC_ABORT_IND (7):
This primitive indicates to the TC-user that either a request for transaction dialogue initiation
has been denied or an existing transaction dialogue has been terminated abnormally.
.SS "Operation Class 4 Transaction Services Definition"
.PP
The operation class 4 service allows for the transfer of transaction components in one and both
directions simultaneously without establishing a transaction dialogue.  A set of primitives are
defined that carry transaction components and control information between the TC-user and the
TC-provider entities.
The operation class 4 transaction service consists of one phase.
.TP
.B Request and Response Primitives:-
.PP
The primitives are modelled as requests initiated by the TC-user and indications initiated by the
TC-provider.  Indication may be initiated by the TC-provider independent from requests by the
TC-user.
.IP \(em 4
.BR TC_UNI_REQ (7):
This primitive requests that the TC-provider send the transaction components to the specified
destinaiton.
This primitive does not require local acknowledgement but may generate a fatal error.
.IP \(em
.BR TC_UNI_IND (7):
This primtiive indicates to the TC-user that a component sequence has been received from the
specified originating address.
.IP \(em
.BR TC_NOTICE_IND (7):
This primitive indicates ot the TC-user that the components with the specified destination address
and QoS parameters produced an error.
This primitive is specific to Operations Class 4.
.SS "Component Handling Services Definition"
.PP
.TP
.B Operation Invoke Service:-
.IP \(em 4
.BR TC_INVOKE_REQ (7):
This primitive requests that the TC-provider formulate an operation invocation to be included in
the specified dialogue.
This primitive does not require local acknowledgement by may generate a fatal error.
.IP \(em
.BR TC_INVOKE_IND (7):
This primitivie indicates the invocation of an operation of the TC user.
This primitive can be issued in all operation classes.
.TP
.B Operation Return Result Serivce:-
.IP \(em 4
.BR TC_RESULT_REQ (7):
This primitive requests that the TC-provider formulate an operation result to be included in the
specified dialogue.
This primitive is sent in response to a
.BR TC_INVOKE_IND (7)
primitive under operation classes 1 and 3.
This primitive does not require local acknowledgement by may generate a fatal error.
.IP \(em
.BR TC_RESULT_IND (7):
This primitive indicates the result of an invoked operation to the TC user.
This primitive can be issued in operation class 1 or 3.
.TP
.B Operation Error Service:-
.IP \(em 4
.BR TC_ERROR_REQ (7):
This primitive requests that the TC-provider formulate an operation error to be included in the
specified dialogue.
This primitive is sent in response to a
.BR TC_INVOKE_IND (7)
primitive under operation classes 1 and 2.
This primitive does not require local acknowledgement by may generate a fatal error.
.IP \(em
.BR TC_ERROR_IND (7):
This primitive indicates the error in a TC-user invoked operation.
This primitive can be issued in operation class 1 or 2.
.TP
.B Operation Cancel Service:-
.IP \(em 4
.BR TC_CANCEL_REQ (7):
This primitive requests that the TC-provider cancel the specified operation.
This primitive is sent to cancel a previous
.BR TC_INVOKE_REQ (7)
primitive.
This primitive does not require local acknowledgement by may generate a fatal error.
.IP \(em
.BR TC_CANCEL_IND (7):
This primitive indicates that a previous TC-user invoked operation was cancelled (timed out).
This primitive can be issued in operation class 1 or 2.
.TP
.B Operation Reject Service:-
.IP \(em 4
.BR TC_REJECT_REQ (7):
This primitive requests that the TC-provider reject the specified operation.
This primitive is sent in response to a
.BR TC_INVOKE_IND (7)
primitive under operation classes 1 and 2.
This primitive does not require local acknowledgement by may generate a fatal error.
.IP \(em
.BR TC_REJECT_IND (7):
This primitive indicates that a previous TC-user invoked operation was rejected.
This primitive can be issued in operation class 1 or 2.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
<ss7/tc.h>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR TC_ABORT_IND (7),
.BR TC_ABORT_REQ (7),
.BR TC_ADDR_ACK (7),
.BR TC_ADDR_REQ (7),
.BR TC_BEGIN_CON (7),
.BR TC_BEGIN_IND (7),
.BR TC_BEGIN_REQ (7),
.BR TC_BEGIN_RES (7),
.BR TC_BIND_ACK (7),
.BR TC_BIND_REQ (7),
.BR TC_CANCEL_IND (7),
.BR TC_CANCEL_REQ (7),
.BR TC_CONT_IND (7),
.BR TC_CONT_REQ (7),
.BR TC_END_IND (7),
.BR TC_END_REQ (7),
.BR TC_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR TC_ERROR_IND (7),
.BR TC_ERROR_REQ (7),
.BR TC_INFO_ACK (7),
.BR TC_INFO_REQ (7),
.BR TC_INVOKE_IND (7),
.BR TC_INVOKE_REQ (7),
.BR TC_NOTICE_IND (7),
.BR TC_OK_ACK (7),
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_ACK (7),
.BR TC_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
.BR TC_REJECT_IND (7),
.BR TC_REJECT_REQ (7),
.BR TC_RESULT_IND (7),
.BR TC_RESULT_REQ (7),
.BR TC_UNBIND_REQ (7),
.BR TC_UNI_IND (7),
.BR TC_UNI_REQ (7).
.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
This interface is new to OpenSS7 for Linux Fast-STREAMS.
.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to the TCI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tci
.]
.
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
