'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: tci_ansi.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/10/25 10:30:99 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/10/25 10:30:99 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TCI-ANSI 7 "$Date: 2004/10/25 10:30:99 $" "$Name:  $" "Transaction Component Interface (TCI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TCI-ANSI
\- Transaction Component Interface \(em Corrigendum for ANSI T1.114 Conformance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/tr.h>
.PD 0
.PP
.B #include <ss7/tc.h>
.PP
.B #include <ss7/tc_itu.h>
.PD
.HP
.BI "int " fd " = open(" device ", " flags );
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B TCI-ANSI
provides a
.I stream
supporting the Transaction Component Interface
.BR "" ( tci (7))
.[
tci
.]
to the Transaction Capabilities Application Part
.BR "" ( tcap (4))
for ANSI T1.114/1992
.[
t1.114
.]
operation.
This
.IR STREAMS (4)
interface provides the
.BR tcap (4)
protocol service interface using the TC-primitives of the
.BR tci (7).
This interface is intended solely for use by user programs or protocol modules requiring the
.BR tci (7)
interface, such as
.BR map (4).
.
.
.SH "ADDRESS FORMATS"
.PP
.SH "QUALITY OF SERVICE"
.PP
.SH "LOCAL MANAGEMENT PRIMITIVES"
.PP
.SH "DIALOGUE HANDLING PRIMITIVES"
.PP
.SH "COMPONENT HANDLING PRIMITIVES"
.PP
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.SH "ERROR HANDLING"
.PP
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B THIS MANPAGE IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND INCOMPLETE
.AU
.VR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tcap (4),
.BR tua (4),
.BR tci (7),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR streamio (2),
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR putpmsg (2),
.BR getpmsg (2),
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2).
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
