'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: tpi_sccp.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2006/04/05 09:43:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: tpi_sccp.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:43:21  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TPI-SCCP 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B TPI-SCCP
\- Transport Provider Interface \- Corrigendum for SCCP Conformance
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/tpi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/tpi_ss7.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/tpi_mtp.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/tpi_sccp.h>
.HP
.BI "int " fd " = open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B TPI-SCCP
provides a stream supporting the Transport Provider Interface
.RB ( tpi (7))
to the Signalling Connection Control Part
.RB ( sccp (4)).
This
.IR STREAMS (4)
interface provides the
.BR sccp (4)
protocol service interface using the T-primitives of the
.BR tpi (7).
This interface is intended solely for use by user programs or protocol modules
requiring the common
.BR tpi (7)
interface such as the
.BR xti (3)
.BR timod (4)
and the
.BR sockets (3)
.BR sockmod (4)
or
.BR socksys (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "ADDRESS FORMATS"
.PP
The
.B TPI-SCCP
address is formatted as a socket address for compatability with the
.BR sockets (3)
library for
.BR tpi (7).
The address is formattted as follows:
.\"
.\"
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct sockaddr_sccp {
    sa_family_t sccp_family;	/* Address family */
    uint16_t sccp_ni;		/* Network indicator */
    uint16_t sccp_ri;		/* Routing indicator */
    uint32_t sccp_pc;		/* Point code */
    uint8_t sccp_ssn;		/* Subsystem number (0 not present) */
    uint8_t sccp_gtt;		/* Global title translation type */
    uint8_t sccp_tt;		/* Translation type */
    uint8_t sccp_es;		/* Encoding scheme */
    uint8_t sccp_nplan;		/* Numbering plan */
    uint8_t sccp_nai;		/* Nature of address indicator */
    uint8_t sccp_alen;		/* Address length */
    uint8_t sccp_addr[T_SCCP_MAX_SADDR_LENGTH];	/* address digits */
    uint8_t sccp_zero[sizeof(struct sockaddr) -
		      sizeof(sa_family_t) -
		      sizeof(uint16_t) * 2 -
		      sizeof(uint32_t) -
		      sizeof(uint8_t) *
		      (7 + T_SCCP_MAX_SADDR_LENGTH)];
} t_sccp_addr_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.BR TPI-SCCP
address contains the following fields:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_family
This field is for compatability with
.BR sockets (3)
library and is not used by XTI and is ignored by the SCCP provider.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_ni
conveys the Network Indicator.  The Network Indicator is an implementation
specific indication of the numbering space in which the
.I sccp_pc
is relevant.  Network Indicators are assigned by the system administrator.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_ri
conveys the Routing Indicator.  The Routing Indicator determines which
elements of the SCCP address will be used for routing and can be one of the
following values:
.\"
.\"
.RS
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RI_DPC_SSN
route on DPC/SSN.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RI_GT
route of Global Title.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_pc
conveys the SCCP Signalling Point Code.  The format of the signalling point
code is network dependent.  Signalling Point Codes are least significant bit
aligned in a 32-bit long word.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_ssn
.\"
.\"
.RS
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SSN_UNKNOWN
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SSN_SCMG
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SSN_RESERVED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SSN_ISUP
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SSN_OMAP
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SSN_MAP
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SSN_HLR
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SSN_VLR
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SSN_MSC
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SSN_EIC
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SSN_AUC
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SSN_ISDN_SS
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SSN_RESERVED2
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SSN_BISDN
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SSN_TC_TEST
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_gtt
conveys the Global Title type.
.\"
.\"
.RS
.TP
.B T_SCCP_GTTTYPE_NONE
no GT.
.TP
.B T_SCCP_GTTTYPE_NAI
NAI only.
.TP
.B T_SCCP_GTTTYPE_TT
TT only.
.TP
.B T_SCCP_GTTTYPE_NP
TT, ES and NPLAN.
.TP
.B T_SCCP_GTTTYPE_NP_NAI
TT, ES, NPLAN and NAI.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_tt
conveys the Translation type.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_es
conveys the Encoding Scheme.
.\"
.\"
.RS
.TP
.B T_SCCP_ES_UNKNOWN
.TP
.B T_SCCP_ES_BCD_ODD
.TP
.B T_SCCP_ES_BCD_EVEN
.TP
.B T_SCCP_ES_NATIONAL
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_nplan
conveys the Numbering Plan.
.\"
.\"
.RS
.TP
.B T_SCCP_NPLAN_UNKNOWN
.TP
.B T_SCCP_NPLAN_ISDN
.TP
.B T_SCCP_NPLAN_GENERIC
.TP
.B T_SCCP_NPLAN_DATA
.TP
.B T_SCCP_NPLAN_TELEX
.TP
.B T_SCCP_NPLAN_MARITIME
.TP
.B T_SCCP_NPLAN_LAND_MOBILE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_NPLAN_ISDN_MOBILE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_NPLAN_PRIVATE
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_nai
conveys the Nature of Address Indicator.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_alen
conveys the address length.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_addr
conveys the address.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I sccp_zero
This field is for compatability with the
.BR sockets (3)
library and is not used by XTI and is ignored by the SCCP provider.
.\"
.\"
.SS "OPTIONS"
.PP
.B TPI-SCCP
provides options at the
.B T_SS7_SCCP
option level as described in the sections which follow.  Of the
.B T_SS7_SCCP
level protocol options,
.BR T_SCCPSEQ_CTRL ,
.BR T_SCCP_PRIORITY ,
.BR T_SCCP_PCLASS ,
.BR T_SCCP_IMPORTANCE ,
and
.BR T_SCCP_RET_ERROR ,
are of end-to-end significance.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SEQ_CTRL
This option sets or gets the Sequence Control value associated with a message
or stream.  The option argument is one
.B t_uscalar_t
value that represents the value of the sequence control parameter.  When used
in the
.BR T_OPTDATA_REQ "(7), " T_OPTDATA_IND "(7), " T_UNITDATA_REQ "(7) or " T_UNITDATA_IND (7)
primitives, this option sets or gets the sequence control value associated
with a message.  When used in the
.BR T_OPTMGMT_REQ "(7) or " T_OPTMGMT_ACK (7)
primitives, this option sets or gets the sequence control value associated
with a stream.
.sp
This option is of end-to-end significance.  When the
.B T_SCCP_SEQ_CTRL
value is set on outgoing data, with
.BR T_OPTDATA_REQ "(7) or " T_UNITDATA_REQ (7),
the same
.B T_SCCP_SEQ_CTRL
value will be indicated in the
.BR T_OPTDATA_IND (7) or " T_UNITDATA_IND (7)
primitive at the transport peer.
.TP
.B T_SCCP_PRIORITY
.TP
.B T_SCCP_PCLASS
.RS
.TP
.B T_SCCP_PCLASS_0
.TP
.B T_SCCP_PCLASS_1
.TP
.B T_SCCP_PCLASS_2
.TP
.B T_SCCP_PCLASS_3
.TP
.B T_SCCP_PCLASS_ALL
.RE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_IMPORTANCE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RET_ERROR
.TP
.B T_SCCP_DEBUG
.\"
.\"
.SH "LOCAL MANAGEMENT PRIMITIVES"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS T_INFO_REQ
.PP
This primitive is intepreted as in
.BR T_INFO_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_INFO_ACK
.PP
This primitive has the following interpretations:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I TSDU_size
If the connectionless protocol variant supports SCCP [LX]UDT[S] messages with
segmentation and reassembly, this number could be
.B T_INFINITE
or very large.
For the most part, connection oriented SDUs in SCCP can't be larger than about
4096 bytes.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I ETSDU_size
Expedited data is only supported in protocol class 3: other protocol classes
will return
.B T_INVALID
in this field.
Expedited data can be of indefinite size.  Protocol class 3 will return
.B T_INFINITE
in this field.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I CDATA_size
Connection data is only supported in connection oriented protocol classes.
Connectionless protocol classes 0 and 1 will return
.B T_INVALID
in this field.
Connection data in connection oriented protocol classes is limited to one
SCCP packet.  For these protocol classes this field will return the same value
as is returned in
.I TIDU_size
below.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I DDATA_size
Disconnection data is only supported in connection oriented protocol classes.
Connectionless protocol classes 0 and 1 will return
.B T_INVALID
in this field.
Disconnection data in connection oriented protocol classes is limited to one
SCCP packet.  For these protocol classes this field will return the same value
as is returned in
.I TIDU_size
below.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I ADDR_size
This field will be the size of the
.B sockaddr
structure.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I OPT_size
This field is interpreted as described in
.BR T_INFO_ACK (7).
Care should eb taken that the SCCP conforming transport provider not return
too large a value: this value is used for reserving buffer using
.BR t_alloc (3)
in
.BR xti (3).
Therefore, this value should not be greater thatn the sum of the sizes of all
of the options described under
.IR \*(lqOPTIONS\*(rq ,
above, plus the size of the
.B t_opthdr
structure for each option.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I TIDU_size
The transport interface data unit size is the maximum size of data that can be
transferred across the TPI interface for the given stream.  For SCCP, this is
the maximum amount of payload that can fit into an [XL]UDT[S], DT1 or DT2.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I SERV_type
For protocol classes 0 and 1 the service type is
.BR T_CLTS ;
for protocol casses 2 and 3 it is
.BR T_COTS .
The
.B TPI-SCCP
transport service provider could refuse to permit protocol classes to be
changed from connectionless to connection oriented using
.BR T_OPTMGMT_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I CURRENT_state
This field is interpreted as described in
.BR T_INFO_ACK (7).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I PROVIDER_flag
The
.B TPI-SCCP
transprot service provider can set
.BR T_SNDZERO " or " XPG4_1 .
.\"
.\"
.SS T_ADDR_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as in
.BR T_ADDR_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_ADDR_ACK
.PP
.\"
.\"
.TP
.IR LOCADDR_length ", " LOCADDR_offset
The length and offset from the start of the primitive message block of the
.B sockaddr_sccp
structure which describes the SCCP address to which the stream is bound.  If
the stream is not in a bound state, then
.IR LOCADDR_length " and " LOCADDR_offset
return zero (0).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.IR REMADDR_length ", " REMADDR_offset
The length and offset from the start of the primitive message block of the
.B sockaddr_sccp
structure which describes the SCCP addres to which the setream is connected.
If the stream is not in a connected state, or if the stream is a
connectionless stream, the
.IR REMADDR_length " adn " REMADDR_offset
return zero (0).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Additional rules for local and remote addresses:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
Each address, when present, must specify an SCCP-SAP or wildcard SCCP-SAP.
That is, the
.I sccp_ri
field of the address must contain
.BR T_SCCP_RI_DPC_SSN .
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The address cannot contain a Global Title.  That is, the
.I sccp_gtt
field of the address must contain
.BR T_SCCP_GTT_NONE .
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If the stream is bound as a default destination or a default listener, an
adress will be included in
.IR LOCADDR_length " and " LOCADDR_offset
butthe
.IR sccp_pc " and " sccp_ssn
fields of the address will be \*(lqwildcarded\*(rq.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS T_CAPABILITY_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_CAPABILITY_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_CAPABILITY_ACK
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_CAPABILITY_ACK (7),
and returns the
.I T_info_ack
structure interpreted as described under
.IR \*(lqT_INFO_ACK\*(rq ,
above.
.\"
.\"
.SS T_BIND_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_BIND_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_BIND_ACK
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_BIND_ACK (7),
with the following additional rules:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.IR ADDR_length ", " ADDR_offset
The length and offset from the beginning of the primitive message block of the
.B sockaddr_sccp
structure that contains the SCCP addresss that was bound.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Additional rules for binding the TSAP:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The address specified must contain an SCCP-SAP.
That is, the
.I sccp_ri
field must be set to
.BR T_SCCP_RI_DPC_SSN .
Otherwise, the TCAP conforming provider will return
.RB [ TBADADDR ].
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The address cannot contain a Global Title: the
.I sccp_gtt
field of the address must contain
.BR T_SCCP_GTT_NONE .
Otherwise, the TCAP conforming provider will return
.RB [ TBADADDR ].
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If no address is specified (the
.I ADDR_length
field is zero (0)), or if an address is specified but both the
.IR sccp_pc " and " sccp_ssn
fields are \*(lqwildcarded\*(rq, it is assumed that the user wishes to
perform a \*(lqwildcard\*(rq bind.  For such a bind, the SCCP provider
observes the following rules:
.\"
.\"
.RS
.IP \(em 4
If an application context has been specified for the stream with
.BR T_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
the SCCP provider will bind the stream as a default destination for
connectionless classes or default listener for connection oriented classes on
the specified application context.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
If no application context has been provided, the SCCP provider will
bind the stream to the default destination for connectionless classes or as
the default listener for connection oriented classes.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
A stream bound to the default destination will receive all connectionless
packets that have no other bind match.  A stream bound as a default listener
will receive all connection indications that have no other stream listening.
Onlly one stream may be bound as a default destination and one stream bound as
a default listener.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Additional rules for the number of connection indications:
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em 4
The SCCP protocol classes 0 and 1 are connectionless and will not accept a
non-zero number in the
.I CONIND_number
field.
SCCP protocol classes 2 and 3 are connection oriented and will permit a
non-zero
.IR CONIND_number .
.\"
.\"
.SS T_UNBIND_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_UNBIND_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_OK_ACK
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_OK_ACK (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_ERROR_ACK
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_OPTMGMT_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
with the options described under
.IR \*(lqOPTIONS\*(rq ,
above.
.\"
.\"
.SS T_OPTMGMT_ACK
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_OPTMGMT_ACK (7),
with the options described under
.IR \*(lqOPTIONS\*(rq ,
above.
.\"
.\"
.SH "PROTOCOL SERVICE PRIMITIVES"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS T_UNITDATA_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_UNITDATA_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.PP
For
.B T_CLTS
service type providers, the
.BR T_UNITDATA_REQ (7)
primitive is used to request the N-UNITDATA-REQUEST primitive of SCCP.
Because there is no source address in the
.BR T_UNITDATA_REQ (7)
primitive, when the stream is bound to a
\*(lqwildcard\*(rq
address it is necessary to specify the source address for the message using
the
.B T_SCCP_SRCE_ADDR
option in the
.I OPT_length " and " OPT_offset
fields, or using
.BR T_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
before sending connectionless data from a
\*(lqwildcard\*(rq
bound stream.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Options used with the
.BR T_UNITDATA_REQ (7)
primitive are as follows:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SCCP_SRCE_ADDR
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR T_MTP_SLS " or " T_SCCP_SEQ_CTRL
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR T_MTP_MP ", " T_SCCP_PRIORITY " or " T_SCCP_IMPORTANCE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS T_UNITDATA_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_UNITDATA_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_UDERROR_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_UDERROR_IND (7).
.B TPI-SCCP
defines a number of protocol specific errors.  See
.IR \*(lqERRORS\*(rq ,
below.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SCCP_INFR_P_FAILURE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_INFR_P_CONGESTION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_INFR_P_QOS_CHANGE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_INFR_U_FAILURE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_INFR_U_CONGESTION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_INFR_U_QOS_CHANGE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_INFR_UNSPECIFIED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_STATUS_USER_IN_SERVICE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_STATUS_USER_OUT_OF_SERVICE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_STATUS_REMOTE_SCCP_AVAILABLE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_STATUS_REMOTE_SCCP_UNAVAILABLE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_STATUS_REMOTE_SCCP_UNEQUIPPED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_STATUS_REMOTE_SCCP_INACCESSIBLE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_STATUS_REMOTE_SCCP_CONGESTED[_x]
.TP
.B T_SCCP_STATUS_SIGNALLING_POINT_INACCESSIBLE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_STATUS_SIGNALLING_POINT_CONGESTED[_x]
.TP
.B T_SCCP_STATUS_SIGNALLING_POINT_ACCESSIBLE

.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS T_CONN_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_CONN_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_CONN_CON
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_CONN_CON (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_CONN_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_CONN_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_CONN_RES
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_CONN_RES (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_DATA_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_DATA_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_DATA_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_EXDATA_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_EXDATA_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_EXDATA_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_EXDATA_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_OPTDATA_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_OPTDATA_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_OPTDATA_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_OPTDATA_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_DISCON_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_DISCON_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_DISCON_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_DISCON_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_ORDREL_REQ
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_ORDREL_REQ (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_ORDREL_IND
.PP
This primitive is interpreted as described in
.BR T_ORDREL_IND (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH "IOCTLS"
.PP
.B TPI-SCCP
supports the
.BR timod (4)
I/O Controls when the
.BR timod (4)
module is pushed over the stream.
.B TPI-SCCP
supports the
.BR sockmod (4)
I/O Controls when the
.BR sockmod (4)
module is pushed over the stream.
.\"
.\"
.PP
In addition
.B TPI-SCCP
supports the I/O controls that are specific to the MTP implementation such as
those descibed under
.BR mtp "(4), " m3ua "(4) and " tali (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "ERROR HANDLING"
.PP
Protocol errors are handled using the
.BR T_UDERROR_IND "(7) and " T_DISCON_IND (7)
primitives described above.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Non-fatal errors are handled using the
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive as described for
.BR tpi (7).
.\"
.\"
.PP
Fatal errors are handled using the
.IR STREAMS (4)
.BR M_ERROR " or " M_HANGUP
primities which results in the failure of all subsequent operations on the
stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
The following protocol errors can be returned in the
.I ERROR_type
field of the
.BR T_UDERROR_IND (7)
primitive:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_NO_ADDRESS_TYPE_TRANSLATION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_NO_ADDRESS_TRANSLATION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_SUBSYSTEM_CONGESTION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_SUBSYSTEM_FAILURE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_UNEQUIPPED_USER
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_MTP_FAILURE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_NETWORK_CONGESTION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_UNQUALIFIED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_MESSAGE_TRANSPORT_ERROR
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_LOCAL_PROCESSING_ERROR
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_NO_REASSEMBLY_AT_DESTINATION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_SCCP_FAILURE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_SCCP_HOP_COUNTER_VIOLATION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_SEGMENTATION_NOT_SUPPORTED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_SEGMENTATION_FAILURE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_MESSAGE_CHANGE_FAILURE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_INVALID_INS_ROUTING_REQUEST
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_INVALID_INSI_ROUTING_REQUEST
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_UNAUTHORIZED_MESSAGE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_MESSAGE_INCOMPATIBILITY
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_CANNOT_PERFORM_ISNI_CONSTRAINED_ROUTING
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_REDUNDANT_ISNI_CONSTRAINED_ROUTING_INFO
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RETC_UNABLE_TO_PERFORM_ISNI_IDENTIFICATION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RESC_END_USER_ORIGINATED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RESC_SCCP_USER_ORIGINATED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RESC_MESSAGE_OUT_OF_ORDER_INCORRECT_PS
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RESC_MESSAGE_OUT_OF_ORDER_INCORRECT_PR
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RESC_REMOTE_PROC_ERROR_MESSAGE_OUT_OF_WINDOW
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RESC_REMOTE_PROC_ERROR_INCORRECT_PS_AFTER_INIT
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RESC_REMOTE_PROC_ERROR_GENERAL
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RESC_REMOTE_END_USER_OPERATIONAL
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RESC_NETWORK_OPERATIONAL
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RESC_ACCESS_OPERATIONAL
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RESC_NETWORK_CONGESTION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RESC_NOT_OBTAINABLE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RESC_UNQUALIFIED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_ERRC_LRN_MISMATCH_UNASSIGNED_DEST_LRN
.TP
.B T_SCCP_ERRC_LRN_MISMATCH_INCONSISTENT_SOURCE_LRN
.TP
.B T_SCCP_ERRC_POINT_CODE_MISMATCH
.TP
.B T_SCCP_ERRC_SERVICE_CLASS_MISMATCH
.TP
.B T_SCCP_ERRC_UNQUALIFIED
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following protocol errors can be returned in the
.I DISCON_reason
field of the
.BR T_DISCON_IND (7)
primitive:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_END_USER_ORIGINATED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_END_USER_BUSY
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_END_USER_FAILURE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_SCCP_USER_ORIGINATED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_REMOTE_PROCEDURE_ERROR
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_INCONSISTENT_CONNECTION_DATA
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_ACCESS_FAILURE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_ACCESS_CONGESTION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_SUBSYSTEM_FAILURE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_SUBSYSTEM_CONGESTION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_MTP_FAILURE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_NETWORK_CONGESTION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_EXPIRATION_OF_RESET_TIMER
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_EXPIRATION_OF_RECEIVE_INACTIVITY_TIMER
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_RESERVED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_UNQUALIFIED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RELC_SCCP_FAILURE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_END_USER_ORIGINATED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_END_USER_CONGESTION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_END_USER_FAILURE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_SCCP_USER_ORIGINATED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_DESTINATION_ADDRESS_UNKNOWN
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_DESTINATION_INACCESSIBLE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_NETWORK_RESOURCE_QOS_NOT_AVAIL_PERM
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_NETWORK_RESOURCE_QOS_NOT_AVAIL_TRANS
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_ACCESS_FAILURE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_ACCESS_CONGESTION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_SUBSYSTEM_FAILURE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_SUBSYSTEM_CONGESTION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_EXPIRATION_OF_NC_ESTAB_TIMER
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_INCOMPATIBLE_USER_DATA
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_RESERVED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_UNQUALIFIED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_SCCP_HOP_COUNTER_VIOLATION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_SCCP_FAILURE
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_NO_ADDRESS_TYPE_TRANSLATION
.TP
.B T_SCCP_REFC_UNEQUIPPED_USER
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR T_SCCP_DEST_PROHIBITED ", " T_SCCP_CLUS_PROHIBITED
.TP
.BR T_SCCP_DEST_CONGESTED ", " T_SCCP_CLUS_CONGESTED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_RESTARTING
.TP
.B T_SCCP_USER_PART_UNKNOWN
.TP
.B T_SCCP_USER_PART_UNEQUIPPED
.TP
.B T_SCCP_USER_PART_UNAVAILABLE
.\"
.\"
.PP
Any of the non-fatal errors described in
.BR tpi (7)
may also be returned in a
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive by
.BR TPI-SCCP .
.\"
.\"
.PP
Any of the fatal errors described in
.BR tpi (7)
may also be returned in an
.IR errno (3)
value in reponse to a read or write operation on the stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CAVEATS"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.br
The OpenSS7 Project http://www.openss7.org
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage describes Version 2 of the
.BR TPI-SCCP
interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sccp (4),
.BR sua (4),
.BR tali (4),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR streamio (2),
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR putpmsg (2),
.BR getpmsg (2),
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2).
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q711
.]
.[
q712
.]
.[
q713
.]
.[
q714
.]
.[
q715
.]
.[
t1.112
.]
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
