'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TR_ADDR_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-29 07:10:29 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:29 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: TR_ADDR_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-04-29 07:10:29  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:43:17  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TR_ADDR_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transaction Interface (TRI)"
.
.
.
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TR_ADDR_ACK
\- Protocol Address Acknowledgement
.
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s+1\
typedef struct TR_addr_ack {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TR_ADDR_ACK */
    ulong LOCADDR_length;     /* local address length */
    ulong LOCADDR_offset;     /* local address offset */
    ulong REMADDR_length;     /* remote address length */
    ulong REMADDR_offset;     /* remote address offset */
} TR_addr_ack_t;
\fR\s-1
.fi
.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates to the transaction user the local and remote protocol addresses currently
associated with the transaction endpoint or association.
.
.
.
.SS Parameters
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type: always
.BR TR_ADDR_ACK .
.
.TP
.I LOCADDR_length
Indicates the length of the protocol address that was bound to the
.IR stream .
.
.TP
.I LOCADDR_offset
Indicates the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block where the protocol address begins.
.
.TP
.I REMADDR_length
Indicates the length of the protocol address of the remote ASE.
.
.TP
.I REMADDR_offset
Indicates the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block where the protocol address begins.
.
.PP
The proper alignment of the addresses in the
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block is not guaranteed. 
.
.
.
.SS Modes
.PP
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.
.
.
.SS Originator
.PP
Transaction provider.
.
.
.SS "Valid State"
.PP
This primitive is issued in response to a
.BR TR_ADDR_REQ (7)
primitive and is valid in any state where a response is pending to a
.BR TR_ADDR_REQ (7).
.
.
.SS "New State"
.PP
The new state remains unchanged.
.
.
.
.SS Rules
.PP
The following rules apply:
.
.IP \(em 4
If the requested transaction identifier was -1 in the corresponding
.BR TR_ADDR_REQ (7)
primitive, and the transaction endpoint is not bound to a local address,
(i.e. it is in the
.B TRS_UNINIT
or
.B TRS_UNBND
state)
the
.I LOCADDR_length
and
.I LOCADDR_offset
fields must be set to 0.
.
.IP \(em
If the requested transaction exists as identifed in the corresponding
.BR TR_ADDR_REQ (7)
primitive,
.I LOCADDR_length
and
.I LOCADDR_offset
fields will be populated to reflect the local association address for the specified transaction.
.
.IP \(em
If the requested transaction identifier was -1 in the corresponding
.BR TR_ADDR_REQ (7)
primitive, the
.I REMADDR_length
and
.I REMADDR_offset
fields must be set to 0.
.
.IP \(em
If the requested transaction exists as identified in the corresponding
.BR TR_ADDR_REQ (7)
primitive,
.I REMADDR_length
and
.I REMADDR_offset
fields will be populated to reflect the remote association address for the specified transaction.
.
.
.
.SH "FILES"
.
.TP 16
.I <ss7/tr.h>
\- the TRI system header file.
.
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tri (7),
.BR M_PCPROTO (9),
.BR TR_ADDR_REQ (7).
.
.
.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Interface first appeared for OpenSS7.
.
.
.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TRI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tri
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
