'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TR_ABORT_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2005/03/30 13:39:37 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:37 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TR_ABORT_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transaction Interface (TRI)"
.
.
.
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TR_ABORT_IND
\- Abort Indication
.
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of a
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TR_abort_ind {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TR_ABORT_IND */
    ulong CORR_id;            /* Correlation id */
    ulong TRANS_id;           /* Transaction id */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* Options structure length */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* Options structure offset */
    ulong ABORT_cause;        /* Cause of the abort */
    ulong ORIGINATOR;         /* Originator P or U */
} TR_abort_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates to the user that either a request for association has been denied or an
existing association has been aborted.
.SS Parameters
.PP
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
Indicates the primitive type.
Always
.BR TR_ABORT_IND .
.
.TP
.I CORR_id
Indicates the correlation identifier previously specified by the transport user to uniquely identify
an outstanding transaction request that has not yet received transaction confirmation.
For all other cases, this field must be set to zero (0).
.
.TP
.I TRANS_id
Indicates the transaction identifier previously indicated by the transport provider to uniquely
identify the transaction.
The transaction identifier must be indicated by the transaction provider.
The transaction identifier must be the same as the transaction identifier that was indicated in the
corresponding
.BR TR_BEGIN_IND (7)
or
.BR TR_BEGIN_CON (7)
primitive (if any).
.
.TP
.I OPT_length
Indicates the length of the protocol options associated with the transaction
association termination.
Protocol options are only indicated by the transaction provider when they were supplied by the
underlying protocol.
If the transport provider does not indicate protocol options, the
.I OPT_length
and
.I OPT_offset
fields must be set to zero (0).
The format of the protocol options are provider specific.
.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
Indicates the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the protocol options begin.
.
.TP
.I ABORT_cause
Indicates the cause of the abort.
Abort causes are provider specific.
.
.TP
.I ORIGINATOR
Indicates the originator of the abort.
This field can have values
.B TR_USER
or
.B TR_PROVIDER
or
.BR TR_UNSPECIFIED .
.
.
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is only valid in connection-oriented mode.
.
.
.SS Originator
.PP
Transaction provider.
.
.
.SS "Valid State"
.PP
This primitive is valid in any connection oriented transaction state other than
.BR TRS_IDLE .
.
.
.SS "New State"
.PP
The new state for the transaction is
.BR TRS_IDLE .
.
.
.
.SH "FILES"
.TP 16
.I <ss7/tr.h>
\- the TRI system header file.
.
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tri (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR TR_BEGIN_IND (7),
.BR TR_BEGIN_CON (7),
.BR TR_ABORT_REQ (7).
.
.
.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.
.
.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TRI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tri
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
