'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TR_BEGIN_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:17 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:17 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: TR_BEGIN_IND.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:17  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TR_BEGIN_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transaction Interface (TRI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TR_BEGIN_IND
\- Association Begin Indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks if any user data is associated with the primitive.
The format of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TR_begin_ind {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TR_BEGIN_IND */
    ulong TRANS_id;           /* Transaction id */
    ulong ASSOC_flags;        /* Association flags */
    ulong DEST_length;        /* Destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;        /* Destination address offset */
    ulong ORIG_length;        /* Originating address length */
    ulong ORIG_offset;        /* Originating address offset */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* Options structure length */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* Options structure offset */
} TR_begin_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates to the transaction user that an assocation begin request to the user has
been made by the user at the specified originating address.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
Always
.BR TR_BEGIN_IND .
.TP
.I TRANS_id
is the transaction identifier assigned by the transaction provider to this transaction association.
Transaction identifiers provided by the transaction provider always have the high bit set to 1 and
are different from -1.
The begin indication is always the first message to which the transaction provider attaches any
newly assigned transaction identifier.
.TP
.I ASSOC_flags
are the association options flags for the indication.
.TP
.I DEST_length
is the length of the destination address.
The destination address is indicated where it is different from the bound address associated with
the
.I stream
upon which the indication is issued, or when the
.I stream
is bound to more than one address (e.g. a list of application contexts) and the destination address
is more specific than the binding criteria and equivalent information is not contained in the
originating address.
.TP
.I DEST_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) where the destination address begins.
.TP
.I ORIG_length
is the length of the originating address
.TP
.I ORIG_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) where the originating address begins.
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the requested options associated with the primitive.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) of the requested options associated with the primitive.
.PP
The proper alignment of the destination address, originating address, and options in the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is not guaranteed.
.SH MODES
.PP
Only connection-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
transaction provider.
.SH "FILES"
.PP
<ss7/tr.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR TR_BEGIN_RES (7),
.BR TR_ABORT_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TRI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tri
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
