'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=groff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TR_BEGIN_CON.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2004/11/05 00:53:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/11/05 00:53:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TR_BEGIN_CON 7 "$Date: 2004/11/05 00:53:05 $" "$Name:  $" "Transaction Interface (TRI)"
.
.
.
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TR_BEGIN_CON
\- Connection Confirm
.
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks if any user data is associated with the primitive.
The format of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TR_begin_con {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TR_BEGIN_CON */
    ulong CORR_id;            /* Correlation Id */
    ulong ASSOC_flags;        /* Association flags */
    ulong TRANS_id;           /* Transaction id */
    ulong ORIG_length;        /* Originating address length */
    ulong ORIG_offset;        /* Originating address offset */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* Options structure length */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* Options structure offset */
} TR_begin_con_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates to the user that an association begin request has been confirmed on the
specified responding address.
.
.
.SS Parameters
.PP
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
indicates the primitive type: always
.BR TR_BEGIN_CON .
.
.TP
.I CORR_id
indicates the correlation identifier used by the transport user to uniquely identify the transaction
begin request of the stream to which this confirmation corresponds.
This is the transaction user assigned transaction identifier of the corresponding
.BR TR_BEGIN_REQ (7)
that this message is confirming.
.
.TP
.I ASSOC_flags
indicates the option flags provided with the primitive.
See
.RB \(lq Flags \(rq
below.
Some flags may be provider specific.
.
.TP
.I TRANS_id
indicates the transaction identifier provided by the transport provider to uniquely identify the
transaction on this stream.
.
.TP
.I ORIG_length
indicates the length of the responding protocol address from which the confirmation was received.
.
.TP
.I ORIG_offset
indicates the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the responding protocol address begins.
.
.TP
.I OPT_length
indicates the length of the confirmed protocol options negotiated by the transaction peer.
.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
indicates the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the confirmed protocol options begin.
.PP
The proper alignment of the responding address and options in the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is not guaranteed.
.
.
.SS Flags
.PP
The following association flags are defined:
.
.TP
.B TR_NO_PERMISSION
The value of this flag may indicate either that the transaction peer gives permission (clear) to end
the transaction association or refuses permission (set) to end the transaction association.
This flag is only valid for transaction providers that support it (see
.BR tri_ansi (7)).
.
.
.SS Modes
.PP
This primitive is only valid in connection-oriented mode.
.
.
.SS Originator
.PP
Transaction provider.
.
.
.SS Rules
.PP
The following rules apply:
.
.IP \(em 4
It is not always necessary for the transport provider to provide the responding address in the
.I ORIG_length
and
.I ORIG_offiset
fields.
Where the responding protocol address is the same as the destination protocol address for which the
transaction initialization was requested, it is not necessary to provide the responding address in
the
.BR TR_BEGIN_CON .
Where the responding protocol address is not provided, the
.I ORIG_length
and
.I ORIG_offset
fields are set to zero (0).
.
.IP \(em
When the
.B TR_NO_PERMISSION
flag is set, the transaction user must not issue a
.BR TR_END_REQ (7)
primitive in response to this indication.
.
.
.SS "Valid States"
.PP
This primitive is valid in transaction state
.BR TRS_WCON_CREQ .
.
.
.SS "New State"
.PP
The new state for the transaction is
.BR TRS_DATA_XFER .
.
.
.
.SH "FILES"
.
.TP 16
.I <ss7/tr.h>
\- the TRI system header file.
.
.
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tri (7),
.BR tri_ansi (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR TR_BEGIN_REQ (7).
.
.
.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.
.
.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TRI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tri
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
