'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=groff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TR_BIND_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/10/25 09:16:18 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/10/25 09:16:18 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TR_BIND_ACK 7 "$Date: 2004/10/25 09:16:18 $" "$Name:  $" "Transaction Interface (TRI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TR_BIND_ACK
\- Bind Protocol Address Acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TR_bind_ack {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TR_BIND_ACK */
    ulong ADDR_length;        /* address length */
    ulong ADDR_offset;        /* address offset */
    ulong XACT_number;        /* open transactions */
    ulong TOKEN_value;        /* value of "token" assigned to stream */
} TR_bind_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates to the transaction user that the specified protocol address has been bound
to the
.IR stream ,
that the specified number of transaction association begin indications are allowed to be queued by the transaction
provider for the specified protocol address, and that the
.I stream
associated with the specified protocol address has been activated.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
indicates the primitive type.
Always
.BR TR_BIND_ACK .
.TP
.I ADDR_length
is the length of the protocol address that was bound to the
.IR stream .
.TP
.I ADDR_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
block where the protocol address begins.
.TP
.I XACT_number
is the accepted number of transaction association begin indications allowed to be outstanding by the
transaction provider for the specified protocol address.
Note that this field does not apply to connectionless (only) transaction providers.
.TP
.I TOKEN_value
is unused.
.PP
The proper alignment of the address in the
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block is not guaranteed.
.SH RULES
.PP
The following rules apply to the binding of the specified protocol address to the
.IR stream :
.IP \- 3
If the
.I ADDR_length
field in the
.BR TR_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive is 0, then the transaction provider is to assign a transaction protocol address to the
user.
If the transaction provider cannot assign a transaction protocol address, the provider will return
.BR "" [ TRNOADDR ] .
.IP \-
The transaction provider is to bind the transaction protocol address as specified in the
.BR TR_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP \-
If the transaction provider cannot bind the specified address the provider will return
.BR "" [ TRADDRBUSY ].
.PP
The following rules apply to negotiating the
.I XACT_number
argument:
.IP \- 3
The returned value must be less than or equal to the corresponding requested number as indicated in
the
.BR TR_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP \-
If the requested value is greater than zero, the returned value must also be greater than zero.
.IP \-
Only one
.I stream
that is bound to the indicated protocol address may have a negotiated accepted number of maximum
transaction association begin requests greater than zero.
.IP \-
A
.I stream
requesting a
.I XACT_number
of zero should always be valid.
This indicates to the transaction provider that the
.I stream
is to be used to request transaction associations only.
.IP \-
A
.I stream
with a negotiated
.I XACT_number
greater than zero may generate transaction association begin requests or accept transaction
association begin indications.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the above rules result in an error condition, then the transaction provider must issue an
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive to the transaction user specifying the error as defined in the description of the
.BR TR_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.SH MODES
.PP
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
Transaction provider.
.SH "FILES"
.PP
<ss7/tr.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tri (7),
.BR M_PCPROTO (9),
.BR TR_BIND_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TRI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tri
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
