'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=groff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TR_CONT_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:58:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TR_CONT_IND 7 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:58:11 $" "$Name:  $" "Transaction Interface (TRI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TR_CONT_IND
\- Transaction Continue Indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks where each
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block contains at least
one byte of data.
The format of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TR_cont_ind {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TR_CONT_IND */
    ulong TRANS_id;           /* Transaction id */
    ulong ASSOC_flags;        /* Association flags */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* Options structure length */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* Options structure offset */
} TR_cont_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates to the transaction user that this message contains a transaction service
data unit.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
Always
.BR TR_CONT_IND .
.TP
.I TRANS_id
is the transaction identifier to which the transaction service data unit belongs.
.TP
.I ASSOC_flags
are the association options flags associated with the TSDU.  Association options flags are provider
specific.
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the protocol options associated with the TSDU.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the protocol options begin.
.SH MODES
.PP
Only connection-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
Transaction provider.
.SH "FILES"
.PP
<ss7/tr.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tri (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR TR_CONT_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.PP
The Transaction Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TRI revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tri
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
