'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TR_CONT_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:18 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:18 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: TR_CONT_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:18  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TR_CONT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transaction Interface (TRI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TR_CONT_REQ
\- Transaction Continue Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks where each
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block contains zero or more bytes of data.
The format of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TR_cont_req {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TR_CONT_REQ */
    ulong TRANS_id;           /* Transaction id */
    ulong ASSOC_flags;        /* Association flags */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* Options structure length */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* Options structure offset */
} TR_cont_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates to the transaction provider that this message contains a transaction
service data unit.
.PP
Note that the maximum transaction service data unit size allowed by the transaction provider is
indicated to the transaction user with the
.BR TR_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
Always
.BR TR_CONT_REQ .
.TP
.I TRANS_id
is the transaction identifier assigned by the transaction provider for the association to which the
data belongs.
.TP
.I ASSOC_flags
are the association options flags associated with the data.  Association flags are provider
specific.
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the protocol options associated with the data.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block where the protocol options begin.
.SH RULES
.PP
The transaction provider must also recognize a message of one or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks without the leading
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block as a
.B TR_CONT_REQ
primitive.
This message type will be initiated from the
.BR write (2)
operating system service routine.
.PP
This primitive does not require any acknowledgments, although it may generate a fatal error.
This is indicated via a
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message type which results in the failure of all operating system service routines on the stream.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ EPROTO ]
This indicates one of the following unrecoverable protocol conditions:
.RS
.IP - 3
The transaction service interface was found to be in an incorrect state.
If the transaction association is in the
.B TRS_IDLE
state when the provider receives the
.B TR_CONT_REQ
primitive, then the transaction provider should just drop the message without generating a fatal
error.
.IP -
The amount of transaction user data associated with the primitive defines a transaction service data
unit larger than that allowed by the transaction provider.
.SH MODES
.PP
Only connection-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
Transaction user.
.SH "FILES"
.PP
<ss7/tr.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tri (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR M_ERROR (9),
.BR TR_INFO_ACK (7),
.BR TR_CONT_IND (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TRI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tri
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
