'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TR_ERROR_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:18 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:18 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: TR_ERROR_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:18  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TR_ERROR_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transaction Interface (TRI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TR_ERROR_ACK
\- Error Acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of a
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TR_error_ack {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always T_ERROR_ACK */
    ulong ERROR_prim;         /* primitive in error */
    ulong TRPI_error;         /* TRPI error code */
    ulong UNIX_error;         /* UNIX error code */
    ulong TRANS_id;           /* Transaction id */
} TR_error_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive indicates to the transaction user that a non-fatal error has occurred in the last
transaction-user-originated primitive.
.PP
For an overview of the error handling capabilities available to the transaction provider see
.BR tri (7).
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive.
.TP
.I ERROR_prim
identifies the primitive type that caused the error
.TP
.I TRPI_error
contains the transaction Level Interface error code.
.TP
.I UNIX_error
contains the Linux system error code.
This may only be non zero if
.I TRPI_error
is equal to
.BR TRSYSERR .
.TP
.I TRANS_id
is the transaction identifier for the transaction upon which the primitive caused an error.
.SH RULES
.PP
This may only be initiated as an acknowledgment for those primitives that require one.
It also indicates to the user that no action was taken on the primitive that caused the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The list of Transaction Interface error codes follows:
.TP 16
.BR "" [ TRBADADDR ]
Incorrect address format/illegal address information.
.TP
.BR "" [ TRBADOPT ]
Options in incorrect format or contain illegal information.
.TP
.BR "" [ TRACCESS ]
User did not have proper permissions.
.TP
.BR "" [ TRNOADDR ]
TR Provider could not allocate address.
.TP
.BR "" [ TROUTSTATE ]
Primitive was issues in wrong sequence.
.TP
.BR "" [ TRBADSEQ ]
Sequence number in primitive was incorrect/illegal.
.TP
.BR "" [ TRSYSERR ]
UNIX system error occurred.
.TP
.BR "" [ TRBADDATA ]
User data spec. outside range supported by TR provider.
.TP
.BR "" [ TRBADFLAG ]
Flags specified in primitive were illegal/incorrect.
.TP
.BR "" [ TRNOTSUPPORT ]
Primitive type not supported by the TR provider.
.TP
.BR "" [ TRBOUND ]
Illegal second attempt to bind listener or default listener.
.TP
.BR "" [ TRBADQOSPARAM ]
QOS values specified are outside the range supported by the TR provider.
.TP
.BR "" [ TRBADQOSTYPE ]
QOS structure type specified is not supported by the TR provider.
.TP
.BR "" [ TRBADTOKEN ]
Token used is not associated with an open stream.
.TP
.BR "" [ TRNOPROTOID ]
Protocol id could not be allocated.
.SH MODES
.PP
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
Transaction provider.
.SH "FILES"
.PP
<ss7/tr.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tri (7),
.BR M_PCPROTO (9),
.BR TR_OK_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TRI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tri
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
