'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=groff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TR_INFO_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/10/24 11:47:39 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/10/24 11:47:39 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TR_INFO_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/10/24 11:47:39 $" "$Name:  $" "Transaction Interface (TRI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TR_INFO_REQ
\- Get Transaction Protocol Parameter Sizes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The format of the message is one
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block.
The format of the
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TR_info_req {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TR_INFO_REQ */
} TR_info_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests the transaction provider to return the sizes of all relevant protocol
parameters, plus the current state of the provider.
.PP
Note that the
.B TR_INFO_REQ
and
.BR TR_INFO_ACK (7)
primitives have no effect on the state of the transaction provider and do not appear in the state
tables.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
indicates the primitive type.
Always
.BR TR_INFO_REQ .
.SH RULES
.PP
This primitive requires the transaction provider to generate one of the following acknowledgments on
receipt of the primitive and that the transaction user wait for the acknowledgment before issuing
any other primitives:
.IP \- 4
.B Successful:
Acknowledgment of the primitive via the
.BR TR_INFO_ACK (7).
.IP \-
.B Non-fatal errors:
There are no errors associated with this primitive.
.SH MODES
.PP
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
Transaction user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tri (7),
.BR M_PCPROTO (9),
.BR TR_INFO_ACK (7),
.BR TR_ADDR_REQ (7),
.BR TR_ADDR_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TRI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tri
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
