'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TR_OPTMGMT_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:43:18 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:18 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: TR_OPTMGMT_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:18  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TR_OPTMGMT_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transaction Interface (TRI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TR_OPTMGMT_REQ
\- Options Management
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of a
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TR_optmgmt_req {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always T_OPTMGMT_REQ */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* options length */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* options offset */
    ulong MGMT_flags;         /* options data flags */
} TR_optmgmt_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive allows the transaction user to manage the options associated with the
.IR stream .
The format of the message is one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
indicates the primitive type
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the protocol options associated with the primitive
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
block where the options begin.
.TP
.I MGMT_flags
are the flags which define the request made by the transaction user.
The allowable flags are:
.RS
.TP 12
.B TR_NEGOTIATE
Negotiate and set the options with the transaction provider
.TP
.B TR_CHECK
Check the validity of the specified options
.TP
.B TR_DEFAULT
Return the default options
.TP
.B TR_CURRENT
Return the currently effective option values.
.RE
.PP
The proper alignment of the options is not guaranteed.
The options are, however, aligned the same as received from the transaction user.
.SH RULES
.PP
For the rules governing the requests made by this primitive see the
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_ACK (7)
primitive.
.PP
This primitive requires the transaction provider to generate one of the following acknowledgments on
receipt of the primitive, and that the transaction user wait for the acknowledgment before issuing
any other primitives:
.SS Successful
Acknowledgment of the primitive via the
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_ACK (7).
.SS Non-fatal errors
These errors will be indicated via the
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ TRACCES ]
The user did not have proper permissions for the use of the requested options.
.TP
.RB [ TRBADFLAG ]
The flags as specified were incorrect or invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TRBADOPT ]
The options as specified were in an incorrect format, or they contained
invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ TROUTSTATE ]
The primitive would place the transaction interface out of state.
.TP
.RB [ TRNOTSUPPORT ]
This primitive is not supported by the transaction provider.
.TP
.RB [ TRSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in the primitive.
.SH MODES
.PP
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
Transaction user.
.SH "FILES"
.PP
<ss7/tr.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tri (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_ACK (7),
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TRI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tri
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
