'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TR_OPTMGMT_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-29 07:10:29 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:29 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: TR_OPTMGMT_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-29 07:10:29  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:43:18  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TR_OPTMGMT_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transaction Interface (TRI)"
.SH NAME 
.PP
.B TR_OPTMGMT_ACK
\- Option Management Acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of a
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TR_optmgmt_ack {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always T_OPTMGMT_ACK */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* options length */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* options offset */
    ulong MGMT_flags;         /* options data flags */
} TR_optmgmt_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This indicates to the transaction user that the options management request has completed.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
indicates the primitive type
Always
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_ACK .
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the protocol options associated with the primitive
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
block where the options begin.
The proper alignment of the options is not guaranteed.
.TP
.I MGMT_flags
should be the same as those specified in the
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive with any additional flags as specified below.
.SH RULES
.PP
The following rules apply to the
.B TR_OPTMGMT_ACK
primitive.:
.IP - 3
If the value of
.I MGMT_flags
in the
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive is
.BR TR_DEFAULT ,
the provider should return the default provider options without changing the existing options
associated with the
.IR stream .
.IP -
If the value of
.I MGMT_flags
in the
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive is
.BR TR_CHECK ,
the provider should return the options as specified in the
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive along with the additional flags
.BR TR_SUCCESS " or " TR_FAILURE
which indicate to the user whether the specified options are supportable by the provider.
The provider should not change any existing options associated with the
.IR stream .
.IP -
If the value of
.I MGMT_flags
in the
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive is
.BR TR_NEGOTIATE ,
the provider should set and negotiate the option as specified by the following rules:
.RS
.IP - 3
If the
.I OPT_length
field of the
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive is 0, then the transaction provider is to set and return the default options associated
with the
.I stream
in the
.B TR_OPTMGMT_ACK
primitive.
.IP -
If options are specified in the
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive, then the transaction provider should negotiate those options, set the negotiated options
and return the negotiated options in the
.B TR_OPTMGMT_ACK
primitive.
It is the user's responsibility to check the negotiated options returned in the
.B TR_OPTMGMT_ACK
primitive and take appropriate action.
.RE
.IP - 3
If the value of
.I MGMT_flags
in the
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive is
.BR TR_CURRENT ,
the provider should return the currently effective option values without changing any existing
options associated with the
.IR stream .
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the above rules result in an error condition, the transaction provider must issue a
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive to the transaction user specifying the error as defined in the description of the
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
primitive.
.SH MODES
.PP
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
Transaction provider.
.SH "FILES"
.PP
<ss7/tr.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tri (7),
.BR M_PCPROTO (9),
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TRI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tri
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
