'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=groff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: TR_UNI_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/10/24 11:47:39 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/10/24 11:47:39 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TR_UNI_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/10/24 11:47:39 $" "$Name:  $" "Transaction Interface (TRI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TR_UNI_REQ
\- Unidirectional Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This message consists of one
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks where each
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block contains zero or more bytes of data.
The format of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct TR_uni_ind {
    ulong PRIM_type;          /* Always TR_UNI_REQ */
    ulong DEST_length;        /* Destination address length */
    ulong DEST_offset;        /* Destination address offset */
    ulong ORIG_length;        /* Originating address length */
    ulong ORIG_offset;        /* Originating address offset */
    ulong OPT_length;         /* Options structure length */
    ulong OPT_offset;         /* Options structure offset */
} TR_uni_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This primitive requests that the transaction provider send the specified unidirectional to the
specified destination.
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
Always
.BR TR_UNI_REQ .
.TP
.I DEST_length
is the length of the destination address
.TP
.I DEST_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) where the destination address begins.
.TP
.I ORIG_length
is the length of the originating address
.TP
.I ORIG_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) where the originating address begins.
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the requested options associated with the primitive.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block) of the requested options associated with the primitive.
.PP
The proper alignment of the destination address, originating address and options in the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block is not guaranteed.
The destination address and options in the
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message block are, however, aligned the same as they were received from the transaction user.
.PP
This primitive does not require any acknowledgment.
If a non-fatal error occurs, it is the responsibility of the transaction provider to report it using
the
.BR TR_NOTICE_IND (7)
indication.
Fatal errors are indicated using a
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message type which results in the failure of all operating system service routines on the stream. 
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The allowable fatal errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ EPROTO ]
This indicates one of the following unrecoverable protocol conditions:
.RS
.IP - 3
The transaction service interface was found to be in an incorrect state.
.IP -
The amount of transaction user data associated with the primitive defines an transaction service
data unit larger than that allowed by the transaction provider.
.RE
.SH MODES
.PP
Only connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
.PP
Transaction user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tri (7),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR M_ERROR (9),
.BR TR_UNI_IND (7),
.BR TR_NOTICE_IND (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transaction Interface first appeared in OpenSS7.
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TRI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tri
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
