'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: tri.7.man,v 0.9.2.6 2005/05/13 09:33:09 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/05/13 09:33:09 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TRI 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transaction Interface (TRI)"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B TRI
\- Transaction Interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/tri.h>
.HP
.BI "int " tri_stream " = open(" tri_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " tri_xtistr " = t_open(" tri_device ", " flags);
.HP
.BI "int " tri_socket " = socket(" pfamily ", " socktype ", " protocol );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.
.
.PP
This document specifies a
.IR STREAMS (4)-based
kernel-level instantiation of the ITU-T Q.771 TCAP TR service definition.
.[
q.771
.]
The Transaction Interface (TRI) enables the user of an TCAP/ASCE service to access and use any of a
variety of conforming TCAP/ACSE service providers without specific knowledge of the provider's
protocol.
The service interface is designed to support any connection-mode and connectionless TCAP/ACSE
protocol.
This interface only specifies access to the TCAP/ACSE layer service providers, and does not address
issues concerning TCAP/ACSE management, protocol performance and performance analysis tools.
.
.PP
The specification assumes that the reader the reader is familiar with
SS7 terminology,
.[
q.700
.]
ISO/OSI reference model terminology,
.[
x.210
.]
the Transaction Capabilities Application Part (Q.771),
.[
q.771
.]
ISO/CCITT Association Control Service Element (ACSE) service (X.217),
.[
x.217
.]
and
.IR STREAMS (4).
.[
svid
.]
.
.PP
.B TRI
specifies an interface that supports the services provided by the Transaction Capabilities
Application Part
.RB ( tcap (4))
for ITU-T applications as described in ITU-T Recommendation Q.771
.[
q.771
.]
.B TRI
also supports the Association Control Server Element (ACSE) described in ITU-T Recommendation X.217.
.[
x.217
.]
These specifications are targeted for use be developers and testers of protocol modules that
require transaction service.
.
.SS "The Transaction Sub-Layer"
.PP
The Transaction Sub-Layer
.[
q.771
.]
provides a subset of the ACSE service interface.
.[
x.217
.]
The transaction sub-layer provides a means to manage transactions between applications.
It is responsible for the control of service associations between application service entities.
.
.
.SS "Model of the TRI"
.PP
The
.B TRI
defines the services provided by the transaction sub-layer to the transaction user at the boundary
between the transaction sub-layer and the transaction component sub-layer or transaction user
entity.
For TCAP, this is the interface between the TR sub-layer and the TC sub-layer.
.[
q.771
.]
For ISO/OSI, this is the interface between the ACSE
.[
x.217
.]
and ROSE.
.[
x.219
.]
.
.PP
The interface consists of a set of primitives defined as
.IR STREAMS (4)
messages that provide access to the transaction sub-layer services, and are transferred between the
transaction service user entity and the transaction service provider.
These primitives are of two types; ones that originate from the transaction service user, and others
that originate from the transaction service provider.
The primitives that originate from the transaction service user make requests to the transaction
service provider, or respond to an indication of an event of the transaction service provider.
The primitives that originate from the transaction service provider are either confirmations of a
request, or are indications to the transaction service user that an event has occurred.
.PP
The
.B TRI
allows the transaction service provider to be configured with any transaction sub-layer (such as any
of the TCAP National variants, or even an OSI ACSE provider) that conforms to the
.BR TRI .
A transaction sub-layer user can also be a user program that conforms to the
.B TRI
and accesses the transaction service provider via the
.BR putmsg (2)
and
.BR getmsg (2)
system calls.
.
.
.SS "TRI Services"
.PP
The features of the
.B TRI
are defined in terms of the services provided by the transaction service provider, and the
individual primitives that may flow between the transaction service user and the transaction service
provider.
.PP
The services supported by the
.B TRI
are based on two distinct modes of communication: connection-oriented tranaction service (COTS) and
connectionless transaction service (CLTS).
Also, the
.B TRI
supports services for local management.
.TP
.BR COTS
The main features of connection mode communications are:
.RS
.IP a. 4
It is virtual circuit oriented;
.IP b. 4
it provides transfer of data along a pre-established path;
.IP c. 4
it provides reliable data transfer.
.PP
There are three phases to each instance of communication: Association Establishment; Data Transfer;
and Association Termination.
Units of data arrive at their destination in the same order as they departed their source and the
data is protected against duplication or loss of data units with some specified quality of service.
.RE
.TP
.BR CLTS
The main features of connectionless mode communication are:
.RS
.IP a. 4
It is datagram oriented;
.IP b. 4
it provides transfer of data in self contained units;
.IP c. 4
there is no logical relationship between these units of data;
.IP d. 4
it is unreliable.
.PP
Connectionless mode communication has no separate phases.
Each unit of data is transmitted from source to destination independently, appropriate addressing
information is included with each unit of data.
As the units of data are transmitted independently from source to destination, there are, in
general, no guarantees of proper sequence and completeness of the data stream.
.RE
.
.
.TP
.B "Local Management"
The
.B TRI
specifications also define a set of local management functions that apply to COTS and CLTS modes of
communication.
These services have local significance only.
.PP
Tables 1, 2 and 3 summarizes the
.B TRI
service primitives by their state and service.
.
.PP
.in 0
.TS
center tab(:);
cbss.
Table 1.  Service Primitives for Local Management
.T&
|lbw(14n)|lbw(14n)lbw(21n)|
|l|l|l|.
_
STATE:SERVICE:PRIMITIVES
=
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Local
.br
Management
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Information
.br
Reporting
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_INFO_REQ (7),
.BR TR_INFO_ACK (7),
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
T}
:_:_
:Bind:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_BIND_REQ (7),
.BR TR_BIND_ACK (7),
.BR TR_UNBIND_REQ (7),
.BR TR_OK_ACK (7),
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
T}
:_:_
:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Options
.br
Management
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
.BR TR_OK_ACK (7),
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
T}
:_:_
:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Address
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_ADDR_REQ (7),
.BR TR_ADDR_ACK (7),
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
T}
_
.T&
cbss.

Table 2.  Service Primitives for Connection Mode Data Transfer
.T&
|lbw(14n)|lbw(14n)lbw(21n)|
|l|l|l|.
_
STATE:SERVICE:PRIMITIVES
=
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Association
.br
Establishment
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Association
.br
Establishment
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_BEGIN_REQ (7),
.BR TR_BEGIN_IND (7),
.BR TR_BEGIN_RES (7),
.BR TR_BEGIN_CON (7),
.BR TR_OK_ACK (7),
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Connection
.br
Mode Data
.br
Transfer
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Data
.br
Transfer
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_CONT_REQ (7),
.BR TR_CONT_IND (7)
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Association
.br
Release
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Association
.br
Release
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_END_REQ (7),
.BR TR_END_IND (7),
.BR TR_OK_ACK (7),
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
T}
:_:_
:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Association
.br
Abort
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_ABORT_REQ (7),
.BR TR_ABORT_IND (7),
.BR TR_OK_ACK (7),
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
T}
_
.T&
cbss.

Table 3.  Service Primitives for Connectionless Mode Data Transfer
.T&
|lbw(14n)|lbw(14n)lbw(21n)|
|l|l|l|.
_
STATE:SERVICE:PRIMITIVES
=
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Connectionless
.br
Mode
.br
Data Transfer
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
Data
.br
Transfer
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_UNI_REQ (7),
.BR TR_UNI_IND (7),
.BR TR_NOTICE_IND (7)
T}
_
.TE
.sp 2
.
.SH "TRI SERVICES DEFINITION"
.PP
This section describes the services of the
.B TRI
primitives.
Time-sequence diagrams that illustrate the sequence of primitives are included.
(Conventions for the time-sequence diagrams are defined in ITU-T X.210.)
.[
x.210
.]
The format of the primitives are defined separately.
.
.
.SS "Local Management Service Definition"
The services defined in this section are outside the scope of the International standards.
These services apply to both connection and connectionless modes of communication.
They are invoked for the initialization and tear down of a
.I stream
connected to the transaction service provider.
They are also used to manage options supported by the transaction service provider and to report
information on the supported parameter values.
.PP
.B Information Service:-
.br
The information service provides the transaction services user with the ability to query the
transaction service provider concerning options and parameters specific to the transaction service
provider and concerning with the transaction association.
The information services use the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TR_INFO_REQ (7):
Requests information concerning the transaction service provider, protocol limits, modes and
options.
This primitive requires local acknowledgement with the
.BR TR_INFO_ACK (7)
or
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitives.
.IP \(em
.BR TR_INFO_ACK (7):
Provides information concerning the transaction service provider, protocol limits, modes and
options.
.PP
.B Bind Service:-
.br
The bind service provides the transaction service user with the ability to bind the requesting
.I stream
to a association address.
The bind service also permits the negotiation of the number of outstanding transaction begin
indication on a connection mode transaction service provider.
The bind service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TR_BIND_REQ (7):
Requests the binding of the requesting
.I stream
to a transaction association address.
This primitive requires local acknowledgement with the
.BR TR_BIND_ACK (7)
or
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitives.
.IP \(em
.BR TR_BIND_ACK (7):
Provides acknowledgement of the bound transaction association address and the number of negotiated
outstanding incoming transaction association indications.
.PP
.B Unbind Service:-
.br
The unbind service provides the transaction service user with the ability to unbind the requesting
.I stream
from the association address to which it is currently bound.
The unbind service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TR_UNBIND_REQ (7):
Requests that the requesting
.I stream
be unbound from the transaction assocation address previously bound.
This primitive requires local acknowledgement with the
.BR TR_OK_ACK (7)
or
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitives.
.PP
.B Options Management Service:-
.br
The options management service provides a mechanism whereby the trnsaction service user can query
and negotiate parameters associated with the transaction service provider and the association.
The options management service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_REQ (7):
Requests the management of transaction service provider options.
This primitive requires local acknowledgement using the
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_ACK (7)
or
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitives.
.IP \(em
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_ACK (7):
Provides acknowledgement of the management of transction service provider options.
.PP
.B Address Service:-
.br
The address service provides the transaction services user with the ability to query bound and
connected association addresses.
The address service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TR_ADDR_REQ (7):
Requests the bound and connected association addresses.
This primitive requires local acknowledgement using the
.BR TR_ADDR_ACK (7)
or
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitives.
.IP \(em
.BR TR_ADDR_ACK (7):
Provides acknowledgement of the bound and connected association addresses.
.PP
.B Receipt Acknowledgement Service:-
.br
The receipt acknowledgement service provides an indication to the transaction service user of the
positive or negative acknowledgement of the previous primitive issued by the transaction service
user.
The receipt acknowledgement service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TR_OK_ACK (7):
Provides positive acknowledgement of the request and response primitives that require local
acknowledgement.
.IP \(em
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7):
Provides negative acknowldgement of the request and response primitives that require local
acknowledgement.
.
.SS "Connection-Mode Transaction Services Definition"
.PP
The transaction service provider provides the following connection-mode transaction services:
.
.PP
.B Association Establishment Service:-
.br
The assocation establishment service provides the transaction service user with the ability to form
outgoing transaction associations, as well as accept or reject incoming transaction associations.
The association establishment service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TR_BEGIN_REQ (7):
Requests association to a peer association address.
This primitive requires local acknowledgement using the
.BR TR_OK_ACK (7)
or
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitives.
.IP \(em
.BR TR_BEGIN_IND (7):
Provides indication of an association request from a peer transaction user.
.IP \(em
.BR TR_BEGIN_RES (7):
Responds to an outstanding association indication.
This primitive requires local acknowledgement using the
.BR TR_OK_ACK (7)
or
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitives.
.IP \(em
.BR TR_BEGIN_CON (7):
Provides confirmation of an association to a peer transaction user.
.
.PP
.B Connection-Mode Data Transfer Service:-
.br
The connection-mode data transfer service provides the transaction service user with the ability to
transfer connection-mode data between the transaction service user and the transaction service
provider.
It also provides the ability to exchange data in transaction interface data units smaller than the
overall transaction service data unit.
The connection-mode data transfer service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TR_CONT_REQ (7):
Requests the transfer of data on a transaction association.
.IP \(em
.BR TR_CONT_IND (7):
Provides indication of the reception of data on a transaction association.
.
.PP
.B Association Abort Service:-
.br
The association abort service provides the transaction user with the ability to generate an abortive
release of an existing transaction association, refuse and incoming transaction association, or
accept the abort of a transaction association.
The association abort service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TR_ABORT_REQ (7):
Requests that a transaction association be aborted.
.IP \(em
.BR TR_ABORT_IND (7):
Provides indication that a transaction association has been aborted.
.
.PP
.B Association Release Service:-
.br
The association release service provides the transaction service user with the ability to perform or
accept termination of an existing transaction association.
The association release service uses the following primitives
.IP \(em 4
.BR TR_END_REQ (7):
Requests that a transaction association be terminated.
.IP \(em
.BR TR_END_IND (7):
Provides indication that a transaction association is termianted.
.
.
.SS "Connectionless-Mode Transaction Services Definition"
.PP
The transaction service provider provides the following connectionless-mode transaction service:
.PP
.B Connectionless-Mode Data Transfer Service:-
.br
The connectionless-mode data transfer service provides the transaction user with the ability to
transfer connectionless-mode data between the transaction services user and the transaction services
provider.
It also provides indication to the transaction services user of some protool errors related to the
transfer of unit data.
The connectionless-mode data transfer service uses the following primitives:
.IP \(em 4
.BR TR_UNI_REQ (7):
Requests the transfer of unidirectional data.
.IP \(em
.BR TR_UNI_IND (7):
Provides indication of the reception of unidirectional data.
.IP \(em
.BR TR_NOTICE_IND (7):
Provides indication of errors encountered in the transmission of unidirectional data.
.
.
.SH "RULES"
.PP
.
.SS "Note about Structure Elements"
.PP
Although the structure elements shown in the individual manual pages are declared as
.B ulong
data types, the value the transaction provider assigns to those elements that refer to this not must
not be greater than the maximum value of an
.B int
data type because the corresponding user level structure elements is declared as
.BR int .
.PP
To avoid compatibility issues between 32-bit kernels and 64-bit applications (and visa versa),
structure elements are declared as 32-bit on all architectures.
.
.
.SS "Rules for Flushing Queues"
.PP
The following rules pertain to flushing the stream queues.
No other flushes should be needed to keep the queues in the proper condition.
.IP \(bu 3
The transaction providers must be aware that they will receive
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
messaes from upstream.
These flush requests are issued to ensure that the providers receive certain messages and
primitives.
It is the responsibility of the providers to act appropriately as deemed necessary by the providers.
.IP \(bu
The transaction provider must send up a
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
message to flush both the read and write queues after receiving a successful
.BR TR_UNBIND_REQ (9)
message and prior to issuing the
.BR TR_OK_ACK (9)
primitive.
.PP
The following rules pertain only to the connection-mode transaction providers:
.IP \(bu 3
If the interface is in the
.BR TR_DATA_XFER ", " TR_WIND_END ", or " TR_WACK_END
state, the transaction proivder must send up a
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
message to flush both the read and write queues before sending up a
.BR TR_ABORT_IND (7)
primitive.
.IP \(bu
If the interface is in the
.BR TR_DATA_XFER ", " TR_WIND_END ", or " TR_WACK_END
state, the transaction provider must send up a
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
message to flush both the read and write queues after receiving a successful
.BR TR_ABORT_REQ (7)
message and before issuing the
.BR TR_OK_ACK (7)
primitive.
.
.
.SH "SEQUENCE OF PRIMITIVES"
.PP
The allowable sequence of primitives are described in the state diagrams and tables below for both
the connection-mode and connectionless-mode transaction services.
.
.
.PP
The following tables describe the possible events that may occur on the interface and the possible
states as viewed by the transaction user that the interface may enter due to an event.  The events
map directly to the transaction service interface primitives.
.PP
.TS
center tab(:);
cbsssss.
Table 4.  Possible States
.T&
|cbs|cbss|cb|
|nl|lss|l|.
_
State:Description:Service Type
=
0:TRS_UNBND:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
unbound
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
1:TRS_WACK_BREQ:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
awaiting acknowledgement of
.BR TR_BIND_REQ (7)
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
2:TRS_WACK_UREQ:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
awaiting acknowledgement of
.BR TR_UNBIND_REQ (7)
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
3:TRS_IDLE:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
idle \(em no connection
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
4:TRS_WACK_OPTREQ:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
awaiting acknowledgement of
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
5:TRS_WACK_CREQ:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
awaiting acknowledgement of
.BR TR_BEGIN_REQ (7)
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
6:TRS_WCON_CREQ:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
awaiting confirmation of
.BR TR_BEGIN_REQ (7)
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
7:TRS_WRES_CIND:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
awaiting response of
.BR TR_BEGIN_IND (7)
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
8:TRS_WACK_CRES:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
awaiting acknowledgement of
.BR TR_BEGIN_RES (7)
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
9:TRS_DATA_XFER:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
data transfer
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
10:TRS_WIND_ORDREL:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
awaiting
.BR TR_END_IND (7)
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
11:TRS_WACK_ORDREL:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
awaiting
.BR TR_END_REQ (7)
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
12:TRS_WACK_DREQ6:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
awaiting acknowledgement of
.BR T_ABORT_REQ (7)
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
13:TRS_WACK_DREQ7:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
awaiting acknowledgement of
.BR T_ABORT_REQ (7)
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
14:TRS_WACK_DREQ9:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
awaiting acknowledgement of
.BR T_ABORT_REQ (7)
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
15:TRS_WACK_DREQ10:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
awaiting acknowledgement of
.BR T_ABORT_REQ (7)
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
16:TRS_WACK_DREQ11:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
awaiting acknowledgement of
.BR T_ABORT_REQ (7)
T}:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR_COTS, TR_CLTS
T}
_
.TE
.sp 2
.
.
.SS "Stream States"
.TP
.B Local Management
.PP
Table 5 shows the state table for the initialization and maintenance of
.I stream
state.
It is important to note that, like TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.I stream
state is applicable to the entire stream.
.PP
.TS
center tab(:);
cbsssss.
Table 5.  Initialization State Table
.T&
|rb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|
|lb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|
|l|c|c|c|c|c|.
_
State:0:1:2:3:4
Event:
=
TR_BIND_REQ:1:
_
TR_UNBIND_REQ::::2
_
TR_OPTMGMT_REQ::::4
_
TR_BIND_ACK::3
_
TR_OPTMGMT_ACK:::::3
_
TR_ERROR_ACK::0:3::3
_
TR_OK_ACK:::0
_
.TE
.sp 2
.PP
The following rules regard the maintenance of the state of the interface:
.IP \(bu 3
It is the responsibility of the transaction provider to keep record of the state of the interface as
viewed by the transaction user.
.IP \(bu
The transaction provider must never issue a primitive that places the interface out of state.
.IP \(bu
The uninitialized state of a
.I stream
is the initial and final state, and it must be bound (see
.BR TR_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive)
before the transaction provider may view it as an active
.IR stream .
.IP \(bu
If the transaction provider send an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message upstream, it should also drop any further messages received on its write side of the
.IR stream .
.
.SS "Transaction States"
.TP
.B Connection-Mode Transaction States
.PP
Table 6 shows the state table for the connection-mode transaction services.  It is important to
note that, unlike TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
this state transition is per-transaction instead of per-stream.
All transaction begin and end life in the
.B TRS_IDLE
state.
.PP
.in 0
.TS
expand center tab(:);
cbssssssssssssss.
Table 6.  Transaction State Table, COTS
.T&
|rb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|
|lb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|
|l|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|.
_
State:0:3:5:6:7:8:9:10:11:12:13:14:15:16
Event:
=
TR_BEGIN_REQ::5
_
TR_BEGIN_RES:::::8
_
TR_ABORT_REQ::::12:13::14:15:16
_
TR_CONT_REQ:::::::9::11
_
TR_END_REQ:::::::10::3
_
TR_BEGIN_IND::7
_
TR_BEGIN_CON::::9
_
TR_CONT_IND:::::::9:10
_
TR_END_IND:::::::11:3
_
TR_ABORT_IND::::3:3:3:3:3:3
_
TR_ERROR_ACK:::3:::7::::6:7:9:10:11
_
TR_OK_ACK:::6:::3:3:::3:3:3:3:3
_
.TE
.sp 2
.PP
The following rules apply only to the connection-mode transaction services:
.IP \(bu 3
A transaction association release procedure can be initiated at any time during the transaction
association establishment or data transfer phase.
.IP \(bu
The state tables for the connection-mode transaction service providers include the management of the
transaction identification numbering and individual transaction state.
It is the responsiblity of the transaction provider to keep trasnaction state separate from
.I stream
interface state.
.IP \(bu
The state of a transaction service interface of a
.I stream
cannot be transferred to another
.IR stream .
.
.TP
.B Connectionless-Mode Transaction States
.PP
Table 7 shows the state table for connectionless-mode transaction services.  It is important to
knot that, unlike TPI,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
this state transition is per-transaction instead of per-stream.
All transaction begin and end life in the
.B TRS_IDLE
state.
.PP
.TS
center tab(:);
cbs.
Table 7.  Transaction State Table, CLTS
.T&
|rb|cb|
|lb|cb|
|l|c|.
_
State:3
Event
=
TR_UNI_REQ:3
_
TR_UNI_IND:3
_
TR_NOTICE_IND:3
_
.TE
.sp 2
.
.
.SH "PRIMITIVE PRECEDENCE"
.PP
The following rules apply to the precedence of transaction primitives with respect to their position
on a
.IR stream :
.IP \(bu 3
The transaction provider has responsibility for determining precedence on its
.I stream
write queue,
.IP \(bu
The transaction user has responsibility for determining precedence on its
.I stream
read queue,
.IP \(bu
All primtiives on the stream are assumed to be placed on the queue in the correct sequence.
.PP
The following rules apply only to the connection-mode tansaction services:
.IP \(bu 3
There is no guarantee of delivery of user data once a
.BR TR_ABORT_REQ
primitive has been issued.
.PP
The following describes the precedence of the transaction primtives for both the
.I stream
read and write queues.
.PP
Table 8 shows the precedence of primitives for the
.I stream
write queue.
.PP
.in 0
.TS
expand center tab(:);
cbssssssssssss.
Table 8.  Stream Write Queue Precedence Table
.T&
|rbs|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|
|lbs|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|
|nl|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|.
_
Object X:1:2:3:4:5:6:7:8:9:10:11
Object Y:
=
1:TR_ADDR_REQ:
_
2:TR_BEGIN_REQ::::4
_
3:TR_BEGIN_RES::::3
_
4:TR_ABORT_REQ:
_
5:TR_CONT_REQ::::5:1:::::1
_
6:TR_BIND_REQ:
_
7:TR_UNBIND_REQ:
_
8:TR_INFO_REQ:
_
9:TR_UNI_REQ:::::::::1
_
10:TR_OPTMGMT_REQ:
_
11:TR_END_REQ:
_
.TE
.
.PP
.TS
center tab(:);
nlsss.
Key
_
blank:T{
.hy 0
.ad l
not applicable / queue should be empty
T}
1:T{
.hy 0
.ad l
X has no precedence over Y
T}
2:T{
.hy 0
.ad l
X has precedence over Y
T}
3:T{
.hy 0
.ad l
X has precedence over Y and Y must be removed
T}
4:T{
.hy 0
.ad l
X has precedence over Y and both X and Y must be removed
T}
5:T{
.hy 0
.ad l
X may have precedence over Y (choice of user) and if X does, then it is the same as 3
T}
.TE
.
.PP
Table 9 shows the precedence of primitives for the
.I stream
read queue.
.PP
.in 0
.TS
expand center tab(:);
cbssssssssssssss.
Table 9.  Stream Read Queue Precedence Table
.T&
|rbs|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|
|lbs|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|
|nl|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|c|.
_
Object X:1:2:3:4:5:6:7:8:9:10:11:12:13
Object Y:
=
1:TR_ADDR_ACK:
_
2:TR_BEGIN_IND::::4
_
3:TR_BEGIN_CON::::3:1:1
_
4:TR_ABORT_IND::1::::::2:2
_
5:TR_CONT_IND::::5:1::::1::::1
_
6:TR_INFO_ACK:
_
7:TR_BIND_ACK::1
_
8:TR_ERROR_ACK::1:1:1:1
_
9:TR_OK_ACK::1:1:1:1
_
10:TR_UNI_IND::::::::2::1:2:2
_
11:TR_NOTICE_IND::::::::1::1:1:1
_
12:TR_OPTMGMT_ACK::1::::::::1:1
_
13:TR_END_IND::1::5::::2:2
_
.TE
.
.PP
.TS
center tab(:);
nlsss.
Key
_
blank:T{
.hy 0
.ad l
not applicable / queue should be empty
T}
1:T{
.hy 0
.ad l
X has no precedence over Y
T}
2:T{
.hy 0
.ad l
X has precedence over Y
T}
3:T{
.hy 0
.ad l
X has precedence over Y and Y must be removed
T}
4:T{
.hy 0
.ad l
X has precedence over Y and both X and Y must be removed
T}
5:T{
.hy 0
.ad l
X may have precedence over Y (choice of user) and if X does, then it is the same as 3
T}
.TE
.
.
.SH "ERROR HANDLING"
.PP
There are two error handling facilities available to the transaction user: one to handle non-fatal
errors and one to handle fatal errors.
.SS "Non-fatal Errors"
.PP
The non-fatal errors are those that a transaction user can correct, and are reported in the form of
an error acknowledgement to the appropriate primitive in error.
Only those primitives that require acknowledgements may generate a non-fatal error acknowledgement.
These acknowledgements always report a syntactical error in the specified primitive when the
transaction provider receives the primitive.
The primitive descriptions in the individual manual pages define those primitive and rules regarding
the acknowledgement of them.
These errors are reported to the transaction user via the
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive, and give the transaction user the option of reissuing the transaction service primitive
that cause the error.
The
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive also indicates to the transaction user that no action was taken by the transaction
provider upon receipt of the primitive that caused the error.
These errors do not change the state of the transaction service interface as seen by the transaction
user.
The state of the interface after the issuance of a
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive should be the same as it was before the transaction provider received the interface
primitive that was in error.
The allowable errors that can be reported on the receipt of a transaction user initiated primitive
are presented in the description of the appropriate primitives.
.
.SS "Fatal Errors"
.PP
Fatal errors are those that cannot be corrected by the transaction user, or those errors which
result is an uncorrectable error in the interface or the transaction provider.
.PP
The most common of these errors are listed under the appropriate primitives.
The transaction provider should issue fatal errors only if the transaction user can not correct the
condition that cause the error or if the transaction provider has no means of reporting a
transaction user correctable error.
If the transaction provider detects an uncorrectable non-protocol error internal to the transaction
provider, the provider should issue a fatal error to the user.
.PP
Fatal errors are indicated to the transaction user using the
.IR STREAMS (4)
message type
.BR M_ERROR (9)
with the Linux system error
.B EPROTO
(see
.BR errno (3)).
This is the only type of error that the transaction provider should use to indicate a fatal protocol
error to the transaction user.
The message
.BR M_ERROR (9)
will result in the failure of all operating system service routines on the
.IR stream .
The only way for the user to recover from a fatal error is to ensure that all processes close the
special file associated with the
.I stream .
At that point, the user may reopen the special file associated with the
.IR stream .
.
.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
For the most part, the
.B TRI
is compatible with the
.I mOSI
specification for the
.RI \(lq "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)" \(rq
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
described in XNS 5.2.
.[
xns 5.2
.]
The primary differences between the Transaction Interface (TRI) and mOSI are as follows:
.IP \(bu 3
The TPI
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
and mOSI
.[
xns 5.2
.]
were not designed to take a large scale short time-scale transactional load.
It is inefficient to have to create a different
.I stream
to accomodate each transaction.
For a system that scale to 10's of thousands of open transactions, this could lead to running out of
available open file descriptors, limiting the number of simultaneous open transactions to
.B _POSIX_OPEN_MAX
per process, which on
.BR Linux \(rg
is 16.
.IP
Therefore,
.B TRI
permits mutliple open transactions to be processed simutaneoulsy on the same open
.I stream
by including the transaction id in each of the service primitives.
This is, by the way, consistent with the primitive interface described for the TR sub-layer in
Q.771.
.[
q.771
.]
.IP \(bu
Some of the primitives that correspond to TPI primitives, have additional fields described over and
above the corresponding TPI primitive.
This is to accomodate cases where the TR sub-layer specification provides for optional arguments to
primitive (such as ORIG_length and ORIG_offset) where TPI expects these values to be implicit to the
requesting
.IR stream .
.
.
.SS "Mapping of Primitives to Q.771"
.PP
The following table maps the transaction primitive as seen by the transaction provider to the
.I STREAMS (4)
message types used to realize the primitives and to the Q.771 TCAP
.[
q.771
.]
transaction sub-layer service definition primitives.
.PP
.in 0
.TS
center tab(:);
cbss.
Table 10.  Mapping Q.771 to Transaction Service Primitives
.T&
|lb|lb|lb|
|lb|lb|lb|
|lb|lb|lb|
|l|l|l|.
_
Transport:STREAMS:Q.771 TCAP
Primitives:Message:Transaction Sub-
:Types:Layer Primitives
=
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_BEGIN_REQ (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR-BEGIN Request
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_BEGIN_IND (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR-BEGIN Indication
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_BEGIN_RES (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR-CONTINUE Request
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_BEGIN_CON (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR-CONTINUE Indication
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_CONT_REQ (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR-CONTINUE Request
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_CONT_IND (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR-CONTINUE Indication
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_END_REQ (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR-END Request,
.br
TR-END Response
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_END_IND (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR-END Indication,
.br
TR-END Confirmation
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_ABORT_REQ (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR-U-ABORT Request
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_ABORT_IND (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR-U-ABORT Indication,
.br
TR-P-ABORT Indication.
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_UNI_REQ (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR-UNIDIRECTIONAL Request
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_UNI_IND (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR-UNIDIRECTIONAL Indication
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_NOTICE_IND (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
TR-NOTICE Indication
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_ADDR_ACK (7)
T}:M_PCPROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
not defined in Q.771
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_ADDR_REQ (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
not defined in Q.771
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_BIND_ACK (7)
T}:M_PCPROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
not defined in Q.771
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_BIND_REQ (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
not defined in Q.771
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7)
T}:M_PCPROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
not defined in Q.771
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_INFO_ACK (7)
T}:M_PCPROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
not defined in Q.771
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_INFO_REQ (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
not defined in Q.771
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_OK_ACK (7)
T}:M_PCPROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
not defined in Q.771
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_ACK (7)
T}:M_PCPROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
not defined in Q.771
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
not defined in Q.771
T}
_
T{
.ad l
.hy 0
.BR TR_UNBIND_REQ (7)
T}:M_PROTO:T{
.ad l
.hy 0
not defined in Q.771
T}
_
.TE
.sp 2
.
.
.SH "FILES"
.PP
<ss7/tr.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR TR_ABORT_IND (7),
.BR TR_ABORT_REQ (7),
.BR TR_ADDR_ACK (7),
.BR TR_ADDR_REQ (7),
.BR TR_BEGIN_CON (7),
.BR TR_BEGIN_IND (7),
.BR TR_BEGIN_REQ (7),
.BR TR_BEGIN_RES (7),
.BR TR_BIND_ACK (7),
.BR TR_BIND_REQ (7),
.BR TR_CONT_IND (7),
.BR TR_CONT_REQ (7),
.BR TR_END_IND (7),
.BR TR_END_REQ (7),
.BR TR_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR TR_INFO_ACK (7),
.BR TR_INFO_REQ (7),
.BR TR_NOTICE_IND (7),
.BR TR_OK_ACK (7),
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_ACK (7),
.BR TR_OPTMGMT_REQ (7),
.BR TR_UNBIND_REQ (7),
.BR TR_UNI_IND (7),
.BR TR_UNI_REQ (7).
.
.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
This interface is new to OpenSS7 for Linux Fast-STREAMS.
.
.SH "CONFORMANCE"
.PP
This interface conforms to the TRI Revision 0.9.2, Draft 1.
.[
tri
.]
.
.
.
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
