% -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi noai
% =========================================================================
%
% @(#) $Id$
%
% =========================================================================
%
% Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
% Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
% Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
%
% All Rights Reserved.
%
% Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
% under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
% any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
% Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
% copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
% Documentation License".
%
% Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without
% modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby
% granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
% permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7
% Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
% distribution of this documentation or its contents without specific,
% written prior permission.  OpenSS7 Corporation makes no representation
% about the suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is
% provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
% 
% Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
% results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
% notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
% (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
% 
% OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
% DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
% FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE
% CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE
% IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY
% PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
% OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
% CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
% USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
% OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
% THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS
% THEREOF.
% 
% Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
% manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
% responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
% the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
% have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
% which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
% professionally.
% 
% Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
% the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
%
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
%
% U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
% on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
% provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
% of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
% under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
% Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
% Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
% license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
% Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
% DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
% Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
% of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
% regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
% NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
%
% =========================================================================
% 
% Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
% OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
% 
% =========================================================================
%
% Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
%
% =========================================================================

\input texinfo
@setfilename sbc.info
@include ../../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE OpenSS7 Session Border Controller
@set MANUAL_TYPE High-Level Design
@settitle @value{MANUAL_TITLE}

@dircategory OpenSS7
@direntry
* Session Border Controller: (sbc).	OpenSS7 Session Border Controller
@end direntry

@include ../../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE OpenSS7 Session Border Controller
@set MANUAL_TYPE High-Level Design

@comment The following copyright information goes at the head of each .info file.
@ifinfo
This file provides the @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of the
@cite{@value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION}
Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2009  @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2001  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*

All Rights Reserved.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}.

Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the results, provided the printed
document carries copying permission notice identical to this one except for the removal of this
paragraph (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT
THE CONTENTS OF THE DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN
NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF
THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
@end ifinfo

@include ../../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@include ../../../scripts/texi/args.texi
@set MANUAL_TITLE OpenSS7 Session Border Controller
@set MANUAL_TYPE High-Level Design

@shorttitlepage @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@titlepage
@titlefont{@value{MANUAL_TITLE}}
@sp 0.5
@title @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@subtitle Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@subtitle Updated @value{PACKAGE_PDATE}
@sp 0.2
@subtitle Distributed with Package @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@sp 2
@subtitle Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited
@subtitle All Rights Reserved.
@sp 4
@quotation
@chapheading Abstract:
This document provides a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.
@end quotation
@author Brian Bidulock <@email{bidulock@@openss7.org}> for
@sp 0.2
@author The OpenSS7 Project <@uref{http://www.openss7.org/}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

@chapheading Published by:

@sp 1

@noindent
@uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
1469 Jefferys Crescent @*
Edmonton, Alberta  T6L 6T1 @*
Canada @*

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} 2008-2009  @uref{http://www.monavacon.com/, Monavacon Limited} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 2001-2008  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/, OpenSS7 Corporation} @*
Copyright @copyright{} 1997-2000  @email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock} @*

@noindent
All Rights Reserved.

@sp 1

@noindent
Unauthorized distribution or duplication is prohibited.

@sp 1

@noindent
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}.

@noindent
Permission to use, copy and distribute this documentation without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that both the above copyright notice and this
permission notice appears in all copies and that the name of @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation or its contents without
specific, written prior permission.  @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation} makes no representation about the
suitability of this documentation for any purpose.  It is provided ``as is'' without express or
implied warranty.

@chapheading Notice:

@noindent
@strong{OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all
implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title;
that the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights.  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.}

@vskip 0pt
@end titlepage
@iftex
@headings off
@everyheading @thistitle @| @thisfile @| @thischaptername
@evenheading @thischapter @| @| @thisfile
@oddheading @thistitle @| @| @thischaptername
@everyfooting Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL} @| @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @thispage
@evenfooting @thispage @| @| Version @value{PACKAGE_VERSION} Rel. @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}
@oddfooting @value{PACKAGE_DATE} @| @| @thispage
@end iftex
@page

@c Define an index of primitives
@defcodeindex pr
@c Define an index of primitive values
@defcodeindex pv
@c Define an index of primitive error values
@defcodeindex pe
@c Define an index of protocol states
@defcodeindex st
@c Define an index of input-output controls
@defcodeindex ct
@c Define an index of manual pages.
@defcodeindex mp
@c Define an index of MIB objects.
@defcodeindex mo

@c frags out automake
@c @ifnottex
@c @c concatenate indices for text, html and info
@syncodeindex pr cp
@syncodeindex pv cp
@syncodeindex pe cp
@syncodeindex st cp
@syncodeindex mp cp
@syncodeindex tp cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex ct cp
@syncodeindex mo cp
@c @end ifnottex

@include texi/macros.texi
@include texi/versions.texi
@include texi/prims.texi

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}
@heading About This Manual
This is Edition @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL}, last updated @value{PACKAGE_DATE}, of
@cite{The @value{MANUAL_TITLE} @value{MANUAL_TYPE}}, for Version
@value{PACKAGE_VERSION} release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}@value{PACKAGE_PATCHLEVEL} of the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Executive Overview::
* Preface::
* Introduction::
* Application Architecture::
* Network Architecture::
* Reference Architecture::
* System Architecture::
* Platform Architecture::
* Protocol Architecture::
* Software Architecture::
* Hardware Architecture::
* Logistics::
* Optional Application Support::
* Optional Network Support::
* Optional Protocol Support::
* Optional Software Support::
* Optional Hardware Support::
* Programmatic Interfaces::
* Platform Sizing::
* Licences::
* Index::
@end menu

@node Executive Overview
@unnumbered Executive Overview

This document provides a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.  The initial and primary
purposes of this equipment is to provide a scalable, carrier-grade platform for interconnecting VoIP
backbone networks to the PSTN using SS7.

@subsubheading The OpenSS7 Project

The @uref{http://www.openss7.org/, OpenSS7 Project} is an open source software project that has
developed many protocol components within the SS7, SIGTRAN, ISDN and VoIP protocol stacks.
Intellectual property rights for the OpenSS7 Project are held by @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,
OpenSS7 Corporation}.  All OpenSS7 Project software is eventually licensed under the GNU Affero General Public
License Version 3.  OpenSS7 Corporation also provide commercial licensing of OpenSS7 Project
software under terms less restrictive than the AGPL.

@subsubheading The OpenSS7 Carrier VoIP Switch

OpenSS7 can provide VoIP gateway capabilities in a high-performance, low-cost, small-footprint
platform leaveraging the GNU/Linux operating system distributions and tools, and utilizing low-cost
commodity, or high-quality standardized hardware.

For details on platform applications, see @ref{Application Architecture}, @ref{Network
Architecture}, @ref{Optional Application Support}, and @ref{Optional Network Support}.

@subsubheading Open Source Software

The OpenSS7 Project leverages the widespread use of GNU/Linux operation systems, distributions, and
FSF tools such as @samp{autoconf} and @dfn{RPM}.  For example, this document was formatted for PDF,
HTML, info and plain text using the GNU @dfn{texinfo} system, @samp{autoconf}, and the @TeX{}
formatting system.

The open source model avoids proprietary lock-in and permits in-house or outsourced development.
All source code is available for use and modification by the end customer.  All build tools,
documentation and associated resources are generally available.  The availability of the source code
and complete documentation eases problem resolution and can offer upgrades and fixes even in advance
of client problem reports.  

For details on software solutions, see @ref{Protocol Architecture}, @ref{Software Architecture},
@ref{Optional Protocol Support}, and @ref{Optional Software Support}.

@subsubheading Commodity Hardware

By best utilizing commodity PC or standardized CompactPCI hardware, OpenSS7 makes available the
highest performance platforms available on the market at back-to-school prices.  When carrier-grade
and large scale is not essential, 3GHz Pentium class servers in hardened rack mount chassis can be
used at a fraction of the cost, and yet outperform, other solutions.  Where carrier-grade is
necessary, embedded Linux on standardized PICMG 2.16 NEBS compliant chassis make for a higher cost,
but more reliable alternative.

For details on hardware solutions, see @ref{Platform Architecture}, @ref{Hardware Architecture},
and @ref{Optional Hardware Support}.

@subsubheading Rapid Development

The OpenSS7 Project has already developed protocol components completing the SS7 and SIGTRAN
signalling stacks including MTP Level 2 and Level 3, ISUP, SCCP, TCAP; and SCTP, M2PA, M2UA, M3UA,
SUA and TUA.  Development of a Carrier VoIP Switch to meet initial field requirements needs only the
development of some intermediate and auxillary modules.

For details on scheduling, see @ref{Logistics}.

@subsubheading An Evolving Solution

The OpenSS7 Project is evolving to support more protocol stacks including ISDN and VoIP.  Support
for an ever expanding capability is demonstrated by the additional options available as described in
@ref{Optional Application Support}, @ref{Optional Network Support},
@ref{Optional Protocol Support}, @ref{Optional Software Support},
and @ref{Optional Hardware Support}.

@subsubheading Conclusions

In summary, an OpenSS7 Carrier VoIP Switch an excellent application of the OpenSS7 SS7 and VoIP stacks and
can be provided at a affordable price on short time-lines, while offering an evolution path for
future deployment applications.

@sp 4

@flushright
@email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian Bidulock}
The OpenSS7 Project
@end flushright

@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

@section Document Information
@cindex Document information

@subsection Abstract
@cindex Document abstract

This document provides @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for the @value{MANUAL_TITLE}.

@subsection Objective
@cindex Document objective

The objective of this document is to provide Application Notes for the development of a low cost,
high-performance, @value{MANUAL_TITLE} using OpenSS7 protocol components, software, and compatible
systems and hardware.

@subsection Intent
@cindex Document intent

The intent of this document is to act as a @value{MANUAL_TYPE} for an project for an @value{MANUAL_TYPE}.
As a @value{MANUAL_TYPE}, this document discusses components and systems which are not necessarily
complete.  @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,OpenSS7 Corporation} is under no obligation to provide any
software, system or feature listed herein.

@subsection Audience
@cindex Document audience

This document is intended for a technical audience.  The reaser should be familiar with most most
ETSI, ITU-T and ANSI, Signalling System No. 7 recommendations, H.323, H.225, H.245, as well as IETF
drafts and RFCS for RTP, SIP, SIP-T, MEGACO, MGCP, and SIGTRAN protocols.

@subsection Revisions
@cindex Document revisions

Take care that you are working with a current version of this document: you will not be notified of
updates.  To ensure that you are working with a current version, contact the
@uref{mailto:bidulock@@openss7.org,Author}, or check @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,The OpenSS7
Project} website for a current version.

@subsubsection Version Control

@smallexample
@verbatim
$Log$
@end verbatim
@end smallexample

@subsubsection ISO 9000 Compliance

Only the @TeX{}, texinfo, or roff source for this document is controlled.  An opaque (printed or
postscript) version of this document is an @strong{UNCONTROLLED VERSION}.

@subsection Disclaimer
@cindex Document disclaimer

@noindent
OpenSS7 Corporation disclaims all warranties with regard to this documentation including all implied
warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or title; that
the contents of the document are suitable for any purpose, or that the implementation of such
contents will not infringe on any third party patents, copyrights, trademarks or other rights..  In
no event shall OpenSS7 Corporation be liable for any direct, indirect, special or consequential
damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action
of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with any use of
this document or the performance or implementation of the contents thereof.

@noindent
OpenSS7 Corporation reserves the right to revise this software and documentation for any reason,
including but not limited to, conformity with standards promulgated by various agencies, utilization
of advances in the state of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the design of any
techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.  OpenSS7 Corporation is under
no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.

@section Document Organization
@cindex Document organization

This document is organized as follows:

@ifnottex
@menu
* Introduction::
* Application Architecture::
* Network Architecture::
* Reference Architecture::
* System Architecture::
* Platform Architecture::
* Protocol Architecture::
* Software Architecture::
* Hardware Architecture::
* Logistics::
* Optional Application Support::
* Optional Network Support::
* Optional Protocol Support::
* Optional Software Support::
* Optional Hardware Support::
* Programmatic Interfaces::
* Platform Sizing::
* Licences::
* Index::
@end menu
@end ifnottex
@iftex
@table @emph
@item @ref{Introduction}
Introduction to the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} application.
@item @ref{Application Architecture}
The application requirements and architecture.
@item @ref{Network Architecture}
The network architecture for the application.
@item @ref{Reference Architecture}
The reference architecture for the application.
@item @ref{System Architecture}
The architecture of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} system.
@item @ref{Platform Architecture}
The architecture of the @value{MANUAL_TITLE} platform.
@item @ref{Protocol Architecture}
The protocol architecture supporting the application.
@item @ref{Software Architecture}
The software architecture supporting the protocol stack and application.
@item @ref{Hardware Architecture}
The hardware architecture supporting the protocol stack and application.
@item @ref{Logistics}
Project logistics for completion of the VoIP GW application.
@item @ref{Optional Application Support}
Additional application support not directly contributing to the current objective.
@item @ref{Optional Network Support}
Additional network interface support not directly contributing to the current objective.
@item @ref{Optional Protocol Support}
Additional protocol component support not directly contributing to the current objective.
@item @ref{Optional Software Support}
Additional software support not directly contributing to the current objective.
@item @ref{Optional Hardware Support}
Additional hardware support not directly contributing to the current objective.
@item @ref{Programmatic Interfaces}
Programmatic interfaces to selected protocol components.
@item @ref{Platform Sizing}
Detailed platform sizing considerations.
@item @ref{Index}
Index of concepts.
@end table
@end iftex


@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@cindex Introduction

@node Application Architecture
@chapter Application Architecture
@cindex Application architecture

@node Network Architecture
@chapter Network Architecture
@cindex Network architecture

@node Reference Architecture
@chapter Reference Architecture
@cindex Reference architecture

@node System Architecture
@chapter System Architecture
@cindex System architecture

@node Platform Architecture
@chapter Platform Architecture
@cindex Platform architecture

@node Protocol Architecture
@chapter Protocol Architecture
@cindex Protocol architecture

@node Software Architecture
@chapter Software Architecture
@cindex Software architecture

@node Hardware Architecture
@chapter Hardware Architecture
@cindex Hardware architecture

@node Logistics
@chapter Logistics
@cindex Logistics

@node Optional Application Support
@appendix Optional Application Support
@cindex Optional application support

@node Optional Network Support
@appendix Optional Network Support
@cindex Optional network support

@node Optional Protocol Support
@appendix Optional Protocol Support
@cindex Optional protocol support

@node Optional Software Support
@appendix Optional Software Support
@cindex Optional software support

@node Optional Hardware Support
@appendix Optional Hardware Support
@cindex Optional hardware support

@node Programmatic Interfaces
@appendix Programmatic Interfaces
@cindex Programmatic interfaces

@node Platform Sizing
@appendix Platform Sizing
@cindex Platform sizing

@node Licenses
@unnumbered Licenses

All code presented in this manual is licensed under the @ref{GNU Affero General Public License}.
The text of this manual is licensed under the @ref{GNU Free Documentation License}, with no
@dfn{Invariant Sections}, no @dfn{Front-Cover Texts} and no @dfn{Back-Cover Texts}.  Please note,
however, that it is just plain wrong to modify statements of, or attribute statements to, the Author
or @cite{OpenSS7 Corporation}.

@menu
* GNU Affero General Public License::
* GNU Free Documentation License::
@end menu

@include texi/agpl3.texi
@page
@include texi/fdl13.texi

@ifnotplaintext
@c skip indexes for plain text (regex search works better)
@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@c concatenate indices easy use with html and info
@printindex cp
@end ifnotplaintext

@page
@shortcontents
@page
@contents
@bye
