'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: grantpt.3tty.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-28 17:45:59 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 17:45:59 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: grantpt.3tty.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-28 17:45:59  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/06 12:18:57  brian
.\" - updated manual pages to pass make check and for release
.\" - updated release files for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/03 13:24:30  brian
.\" - file additions and removals for make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/29 11:40:03  brian
.\" - new files for strtty package and manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strtty.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strtty.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH GRANTPT 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B grantpt
\- grant access to a slave psuedo-terminal device
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.\".B #include <sys/ptms.h>
.\".br
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.HP
.BI "int grantpt(int " fd );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
The file descriptor of a master pseudo-terminal device successfully acquired
by opening the
.B /dev/ptmx
device.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR grantpt ()
subroutine changes the mode and ownership of the slave pseudo-terminal device
associated with its matser pseudo-terminal counter part.  The
.I fd
argument is a file descriptor that refers to a master pseudo-terminal device.
The user ID of the slave is set to the real UID of the calling process and the
group ID is set to an unspecified group ID.  The permission mode of the slave
pseudo-terminal is set to readable and writable by the owner, and writable by
the group.
.PP
.BR grantpt ()
does the following:
.IP a) \w'm)\(em'u
Changes the ownership of the slave pseudo-terminal device to the effective
user ID of the process calling
.RB grantpt ();
.IP b)
Changes the group ownership of the slave pseudo-terminal device to the group
.BR tty ;
and
.IP c)
changes the permissions to allow only user-read, user-write, and group-write.
.PP
The reason for setting the group ownership to
.B tty
and enabling group-write permission is that the programs
.BR wall (1)
and
.BR write (1)
are setgid
.B tty
programs.
.PP
Calling the
.BR grantpt ()
subroutine on
.IR "SVR 4"
.[
svr4
.]
invokes the
.B /usr/lib/pt_chmod
program that is setuid
.BR root .
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
When a master pseudo-terminal device,
.BR ptmx (4),
is opened with a call to
.BR open (2s),
it returns an available master pseudo-terminal device.  As part of the
.BR open (2s),
call processing, the master pseudo-terminal driver,
.BR ptm (4),
automatically locks out both the master and the slave pseudo-terminal driver from subsequent
.BR open (2s)
calls.
.PP
The process then calls
.BR fork (2)
and
.BR setuid (2)
to establish the controlling process on the slave side of the pseudo-terminal
device.  This process calls
.BR granpt (3)
on the open file descriptor associated with the master side.  This establishes
appropriate permission for the slave device to be opened by the slave-side
process before the slave-side is unlocked.
.PP
The slave side of the pseudo-terminal is then unlocked with a call to
.BR unlockpt (3).
The child process then calls
.BR ptsname (3)
to determine the device node name of the slave side and opens it with
.BR open (2s).
The child process pushes any necessary modules (e.g.
.BR ptem (4),
.BR ldterm (4),
on the slave side to establish a controlling terminal.
The master is closed with
.BR close (2)
and the slave side program executed with
.BR exec (2).
An
.BR open (2s)
call attempted on the master or slave while locked will return
.RB [ ENXIO ].
After the call to
.BR unlockpt (3),
the master pseudo-terminal device remains locked.  That is, no other process can open the
master pseudo-terminal device,
.IR "including the process holding the device open" ,
once it has already been opened.
.BR unlockpt (3)
only unlocks the slave pseudo-terminal device.
.PP
Finally,
.BR ptsname (3)
can be used to determine the name of the associated slave pseudo-terminal
device node to pass to
.BR open (2s)
to open the slave side of the pseudo-terminal.
.PP
As can be deduced from this procedure, the primary intention of the procedure is one of security.
Other processes are not even afforded a narrow window within which to open the slave pseudo-device
terminal.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR grantpt (3)
is implemented using the
.BR ZONEPT
intput-output control for master pseudo-terminal devices,
.BR pty (4).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR grantpt ()
establishes the appropriate access privileges to the slave pseudo-terminal
device node and returns zero
.RB ( 0 );
upon failure, it returns minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and the slave pseudo-terminal access is unaffected.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR grantpt ()
fails, it returns minus one
.BR ( -1 )
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[\fBEINVAL\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ EBADF ]
The
.I fd
argument is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The
.I fd
argument is not associated with a master pseudo-terminal device.
.TP
.RB [ EACCES ]
The corresponding slave pseudo-terminal device could not be accessed.
.PP
In addition, any other error number returned by
.BR ioctl (2s)
could be returned by
.BR grantpt ().
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/ptmx ", " /dev/streams/ptmx ", " /dev/streams/clone/ptm
The master pseudo-device terminal clone device node.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ptsname (3),
.BR unlockpt (3),
.BR pty (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR grantpt ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR grantpt ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR libtty (3)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR 4.2,
.[
svr42
.]
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3.
.[
susv3
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR grantpt ()
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
These subroutines are related to the
.IR UNIX \(rg
.BR STREAMS (9)
implementation of pseudo-terminal devices.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
