'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ldterm.4.man,v 0.9.2.4 2006/10/10 10:47:16 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/10 10:47:16 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ldterm.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/10/10 10:47:16  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/06 12:18:59  brian
.\" - updated manual pages to pass make check and for release
.\" - updated release files for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/02 11:32:13  brian
.\" - changes to get master builds working for RPM and DEB
.\" - added outside licenses to package documentation
.\" - added LICENSE automated release file
.\" - copy MANUAL to source directory
.\" - add and remove devices in -dev debian subpackages
.\" - get debian rules working better
.\" - release library version files
.\" - added notes to debian changelog
.\" - corrections for cooked manual pages in spec files
.\" - added release documentation to spec and rules files
.\" - copyright header updates
.\" - moved controlling tty checks in stream head
.\" - missing some defines for LiS build in various source files
.\" - added OSI headers to striso package
.\" - added includes and manual page paths to acincludes for various packages
.\" - added sunrpc, uidlpi, uinpi and uitpi licenses to documentation and release
.\"   files
.\" - moved pragma weak statements ahead of declarations
.\" - changes for master build of RPMS and DEBS with LiS
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/29 11:40:04  brian
.\" - new files for strtty package and manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strtty.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strtty.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH LDTERM 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ldterm
\- \fISTREAMS\fR Line Discipline for Terminals
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #include <tty.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
.SS "Open and Close Routines"
.PP
.\"
.SS "Write-Side Processing"
.PP
The
.B ldterm
module support the following input-output controls:
.BR TCSETA ,
.BR TCSETAW ,
.BR TCSETAF ,
.BR TCSETS ,
.BR TCSETSW ,
.BR TCSETSF ,
.BR TCGETA ,
.BR TCGETS ,
.BR TCXONC ,
.BR TCFLSH ,
.BR TCSKBR ,
.BR TIOCSWINSZ ,
.BR TIOCGWINSZ " and "
.BR JWINSIZE .
.PP
All input-output controls not recognized by the ldterm module are passes
downstream to the neighboring module 
.RB ( ptem (4)) 
or driver
.RB ( tty (4)).
.I BSD
functionality is turned off by
.B IEXTEN .
.PP
The following messages can be received on the write-side:
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR M_DELAY (9),
.BR M_BREAK (9),
.BR M_FLUSH (9),
.BR M_STOP (9),
.BR M_START (9),
.BR M_STOPI (9),
.BR M_STARTI (9),
.BR M_READ (9),
.BR M_IOCDATA(9) ,
.BR M_CTL "(9) and "
.BR M_IOCTL (9).
.PP
On the write-side, the
.B ldterm
module processes
.BR M_FLUSH (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
and
.BR M_READ (9)
mesages.  All other messages are passed downstream unchanged.
.PP
On the write-side,
.B ldterm
generates an
.BR M_CTL (9)
message as a query to the driver for an intelligent peripheral to decide on
the functional split for
.BR termio (7)
processing.  If all or part of
.BR termio (7)
processing is done by the intelligent peripheral,
.B ldterm
can turn off this processing to avoid computational overhead.  This is done by
sending an appropriate response to the
.BR M_CTL (9)
message, as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If all of the
.BR termio (7)
processing is done by the peripheral hardware, the driver sends an
.BR M_CTL (9)
message back to
.B ldterm
with
.I ioc_cmd
of the
structure
.BR iocblk (9)
set to
.BR MC_NO_CANON .
If
.B ldterm is to handle all
.BR termio (7)
processing, the device driver sends an
.BR M_CTL (9)
message with
.I ioc_cmd
set to
.BR MC_DO_CANNON .
The default is
.BR MC_DO_CANNON .
.IP \(bu
If the peripheral harware handles only part of the
.BR termio (7)
processing, it informs
.B ldterm
in the following way: the driver for the peripheral device allocate an
.BR M_DATA (9)
message large enough to hold a
.BR termios (5)
structure.  The driver then turns on those
.IR c_iflag ,
.IR c_oflag ,
and
.IR c_lflag ,
fields of the
.BR termios (5)
structure that are processed on the peripheral device by ORing the flag
values.  The
.BR M_DATA (9)
message is then attached to the
.I b_cont
field of the
.BR M_CTL (9)
message it received.  The message is sent back to
.B ldterm
with
.I ioc_cmd
in the data buffer of the
.BR M_CTL (9)
message set to
.BR MC_PART_CANON .
.PP
The line discipline module does not check if write-side flow control is in
effect before forwarding data downstream.  It expects the downstream module or
driver to queue the messages on its queue until flow control is lifted.
.\"
.SS "Read-Side Processing"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A
.I STREAMS
line discipline module called
.BR ldterm
is a key part of the
.IR STREAMS -based
terminal subsystem.  The terms
.I line discipline
and
.B ldterm
are used interchangeably and refer to the
.I STREAMS
version of the standard line discipline and not the traditional character
version.
.B ldterm
performs the standard terminal I/O processing which was traditionally done
through the
.B linesw
mechanism.

The
.BR termio (7)
and
.BR termios (7)
specifications describe four flags which are used to control the terminal:
.I c_iflag
(defines input modes),
.I c_oflag
(defines output modes),
.I c_cflag
(defines hardware control modes), and
.I c_lflag
(defines terminal functions used by
.BR ldterm ).
To process these flags elsewhere (for example, in the firmware or in another
process), a mechanism is in place to turn on and off the processing of these
flags.  When the
.B ldterm
module is pushed, it sends
an
.BR M_CTL (9)
message downstream which asks the driver which flags the driver will process.
The driver sends back that message in response if it needs to change
.BR ldterm 's
default processing.  By default,
.B ldterm
assumes that it must process all flags except
.IR c_cflag ,
unless it receives a message telling otherwise.
.\"
.SS "Default Settings"
.PP
When
.B ldterm
is pushed on the Stream, the open routine initializes the settings of the
.BR termio (7)
flags.  The default settings are:
.TP \w'\fBC_OFLAG\fR\(em'u
.B C_IFLAG
.RB "= " BRKINT | ICRNL | IXON | ISTRIP | IXANY | ICRNL | IXON | ISTRIP | IXANY
.PD 0
.TP
.B C_OFLAG
.RB "= " OPOST | ONLCR | TAB3 | ONLCR | TAB3
.TP
.B C_CFLAG
.RB "= " 0
.TP
.B C_LFLAG
.RB "= " ISIG | ICANON | ECHO | ECHOK | ICANON | ECHO | ECHOK
.PD
.PP
In canonical mode
.RB ( ICANON
flag in
.I c_lflag
is turned on), read from the terminal file descriptor is in message
non-discard
.RB ( RMSGN )
mode, described in
.BR streamio (7).
This implies that in canonical mode, read on the terminal file descriptor
always returns at most one line regardless how many characters have been
requested.  In non-canonical
mode, read is in byte-stream
.RB ( RNORM )
mode.
.\"
.SS "Data Structure"
.PP
The
.B ldterm
module uses the following structure to maintain state information:
.PP
.RS 0
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct ldterm_mod {
    mblk_t *t_savbp;         /* saved mblk that holds ld structure */
    struct termios t_modes;  /* effective modes set by the provider */
    struct termios t_amodes; /* apparent modes for user programs */
    struct termios t_dmodes; /* modes that driver wishes to process */
    unsigned long t_state;   /* internal state of tty module */
    int t_line;              /* output line of tty */
    int t_col;               /* output column of tty */
    int t_rocount;           /* number of characters echoed since last
                                output */
    int t_rocol;             /* column in which first such character
                                appeared */
    mblk_t *t_message;       /* pointer to 1st mblk in message being built */
    mblk_t *t_endmsg;        /* pointer to last mblk in that message */
    int t_msglen;            /* number of characters in that message */
    mblk_t *t_echomp;        /* echoed output being assembled */
    int t_rd_request;        /* number of bytes requested by M_READ during
                                vmin/vtime read */
    int t_tid;               /* vtime timer id */

    /* 
     * The following are for EUC processing.
     */

    unchar t_codeset;        /* current code set indicator - read-side */
    unchar t_eucleft;        /* bytes left to get in current character */
    unchar t_eucign;         /* bytes left to ignore - output post proc */
    unchar t_eucpad;         /* padding for eucwioc */
    eucioc_t eucwioc;        /* eucioc structure (have to use bcopy) */
    unchar *t_eucp;          /* pointer to parallel array of column widths */
    mblk_t *t_eucp_mp;       /* message block that holds parallel array */
    unchar t_maxeuc;         /* maximum length in memory bytes of an EUC */
    int t_eucwarn;           /* bad EUC counter */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.SS "Read-Side Processing"
.PP
The
.B ldterm
module's read-side processing has
.IR put ,
.BR qi_putp (9),
and
.IR service ,
.BR qi_srvp (9),
procedures.
High and low water marks for the read queue are
.B 512
and
.B 200
respectively.
.PP
.B ldterm
can send the following messages upstream:
.PP
.B ldterm
messages
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR M_BREAK (9),
.BR M_PCSIG (9),
.BR M_SIG (9),
.BR M_FLUSH (9),
.BR M_ERROR (9),
.BR M_IOCACK (9),
.BR M_IOCNAK (9),
.BR M_HANGUP (9),
.BR M_CTL (9),
.BR M_SETOPTS (9),
.BR M_COPYOUT (9),
and
.BR M_COPYIN (9).
.PP
The
.B ldterm
module's read-side processes
.BR M_BREAK (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR M_CTL (9),
.BR M_FLUSH (9),
.BR M_HANGUP (9),
and
.BR M_IOCACK (9)
messages.  All other messages are sent upstream unchanged.
.PP
The put procedure,
.BR qi_putp (9),
scans the message for flow control characters
.RB ( IXON ),
signal generating characters, and after (possible) transformation of the
message, queues the message for the
service procedure,
.BR qi_srvp (9).
Echoing is handled completely by the service procedure.
.PP
In canonical mode if the
.B ICANON
flag is on in
.IR c_lflag ,
canonical processing is performed.  If the
.B ICANON
flag is off, non-canonical processing is
performed (see
.BR termio (7),
for more details).
Handling of
.BR VMIN / VTIME
in the
.I STREAMS
environment is somewhat complicated, because read needs to activate a timer in
the
.B ldterm
module in
some cases; hence, read notification becomes necessary.  When a user issues an
.BR ioctl (2s)
to put
.B ldterm
in non-canonical mode, the
.B ldterm
module sends an
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message to the Stream head to register read notification.  Further reads on
the terminal file descriptor will cause the Stream head to issue an
.BR M_READ (9)
message downstream and data will be sent upstream in response to the
.BR M_READ (9)
message.  With read notification, buffering of raw data is performed by
.BR ldterm .
It is possible to canonize the raw data, when the user has switched from raw
to canonical mode.  However, the reverse is not possible.
.PP
To summarize, in non-canonical mode, the
.B ldterm
module buffers all data until a request for the data arrives in the form of an
.BR M_READ (9)
message.  The number of bytes sent upstream will be the argument of the
.BR M_READ (9)
message.
.PP
The service procedure,
.BR qi_srvp (9),
of
.B ldterm
handles
.I STREAMS
related flow control.  Since the read-side high and low water marks are
.B 512
and
.B 200
respectively,
placing more thanr
.B 512
characters on the
.BR ldterm 's
read queue will cause the
.B QFULL
flag be turned on indicating that the module below should not send more data
upstream.
.PP
Input flow control is regulated by the line discipline module by generating
.BR M_STARTI (9)
and
.BR M_STOPI (9)
high priority messages.  When sent downstream, receiving drivers or modules
take appropriate action to regulate the sending of data upstream.
Output flow control is activated when
.B ldterm
receives flow control characters
in its data stream.  The
.B ldterm
module then sets an internal flag indicating
that output processing is to be restarted/stopped and sends an
.BR M_START (9)/ M_STOP (9)
message downstream.
.\"
.SS "Write-Side Processing"
.PP
Write-side processing of the
.B ldterm
module is performed by the write-side put
procedures,
.BR qi_putp (9).
.PP
The
.B ldterm
module supports the following ioctls:
.BR TCSETA ,
.BR TCSETAW ,
.BR TCSETAF ,
.BR TCSETS ,
.BR TCSETSW ,
.BR TCSETSF ,
.BR TCGETA ,
.BR TCGETS ,
.BR TCXONC ,
.BR TCFLSH ,
.BR TCSBRK ,
.BR TIOCSWINSZ ,
.BR TIOCGWINSZ ,
and
.BR JWINSIZE .
.PP
All ioctls not recognized by the
.B ldterm
module are passed downstream to the
neighboring module or driver.
.I BSD
functionality is turned off by
.B IEXTEN
(see
.BR termio (7),
for more details).
.PP
The following messages can be received on the write-side:
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR M_DELAY (9),
.BR M_BREAK (9),
.BR M_FLUSH (9),
.BR M_STOP (9),
.BR M_START (9),
.BR M_STOPI (9),
.BR M_STARTI (9),
.BR M_READ (9),
.BR M_IOCDATA (9),
.BR M_CTL (9),
and
.BR M_IOCTL (9).
.PP
On the write-side, the
.B ldterm
module processes
.BR M_FLUSH (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR M_IOCTL (9),
and
.BR M_READ (9)
messages, and all other message are passed downstream unchanged.
.PP
An
.BR M_CTL (9)
message is generated by
.B ldterm
as a query to the driver for an intelligent peripheral and to decide on the
functional split for
.BR termio (7)
processing.  If all or part of
.BR termio (7)
processing is done by the intelligent peripheral,
.B ldterm
can turn off this processing to avoid computational overhead.  This is done by
sending an appropriate response to the
.BR M_CTL (9)
message, as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If all of the
.BR termio (7)
processing is done by the peripheral hardware, the driver sends an
.BR M_CTL (9)
message back to
.B ldterm
with
.I ioc_cmd
of the structure
.BR iocblk (9)
set to
.BR MC_NO_CANON .
If
.B ldterm
is to handle all
.BR termio (7)
processing, the driver sends an
.BR M_CTL (9)
message with
.I ioc_cmd set
to
.B MC_DO_CANON .
Default is
.BR MC_DO_CANON .
.IP \(bu
If the peripheral hardware handles only part of the
.BR termio (7)
processing, it informs
.B ldterm
in the following way: The driver for the peripheral device
allocates an
.BR M_DATA (9)
message large enough to hold a
.BR termios (7)
structure.  The driver then turns on those
.IR c_iflag ,
.IR c_oflag ", and
.I c_lflag
fields of the
.BR termios (7)
structure that are processed on the peripheral device by ORing the flag
values.  The
.BR M_DATA (9)
message is then attached to the
.I b_cont
field of the
.BR M_CTL (9)
message it received.  The message is sent back to
.B ldterm
with
.I ioc_cmd
in the data buffer of the
.BR M_CTL (9)
message set to
.BR MC_PART_CANON .
.PP
The line discipline module does not check if write-side flow control is in
effect before forwarding data downstream.  It expects the downstream module or
driver to queue the messages on its queue until flow control is lifted.
.\"
.SS "EUC Handling in ldterm"
.PP
The idea of letting post-processing (the
.IR o_flags )
happen off the host processor is not recommended unless the board software is
prepared to deal with international
.RB ( EUC )
character sets properly.  The reason for this is that
post-processing must take the
.I EUC
information into account.
.B ldterm
knows about the screen width of characters (that is, how many columns are
taken by characters from each given code set on the current physical display)
and it takes this width into account when calculating tab expansions.  When
using multi-byte characters or multi-column characters
.B ldterm
automatically handles tab expansion (when
.B TAB3
is set) and does not leave this handling to a lower module or driver.
.PP
As an example, consider the
.I 3B2 PORTS
board that has a processor and runs firmware on the board that can handle
output post-processing.  However, the firmware on the
.I PORTS
board has no knowledge of EUC unless one can change the firmware.  Therefore,
with some EUC code sets, particularly those where number of bytes in a
character is not equivalent to the width of the character on the screen (for
example, 3 byte codes that take only 2 screen columns), the
.I PORTS
board's firmware miscalculates the number of spaces required to expand the
tab.  Hence, if the board is allowed to handle tab expansion, it may get the
expansion wrong in some cases.
.PP
By default multi-byte handling by
.B ldterm
is turned off.  When
.B ldterm
receives
an
.B EUC_WSET
.BR ioctl (2s)
call, it turns multi-byte processing on, if it is essential to properly handle
the indicated code set.  Thus, if one is using single byte 8-bit codes and has
no special multi-column requirements, the special multi-column processing is
not used at all.  This means that multi-byte processing does not reduce the
processing speed or efficiency of
.B ldterm
unless it is actually used.
.PP
The following describes how the EUC handling in
.B ldterm
works:
.PP
First, the multi-byte and multi-column character handling is only enabled when
the
.B EUC_WSET
.BR ioctl (2s)
indicates that one of the following conditions is met:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Code set consists of more than one byte (including the
.B SS2
and/or
.BR SS3 )
ofcharacters, or
.IP \(bu
Code set requires more than one column to display on the current device, as
indicated in the
.B EUC_WSET
structure.
.PP
Assuming that one or more of the above conditions, EUC handling is enabled.
At this point, a parallel array (see
.B ldterm_mod
structure) used for other information, is allocated and a pointer to it is
stored in
.IR t_eucp_mp .
The parallel array which it holds is pointed to by
.IR t_eucp .
The
.I t_codeset
field holds the flag that indicates which of the code sets is currently being
processed on the read-side.  When a byte with the high bit arrives, it is
checked to see if it is
.BR SS2 " or "SS3 .
If so, it belongs to code set 2 or 3.  Otherwise, it is a byte that comes from
code set 1.  Once the extended code set flag has been set, the input processor
retrieves the subsequent bytes, as they arrive, to build one multi-byte
character.  The counter field
.I t_eucleft
tells the input processor how many bytes remain to be read for the current
character.  The parallel array
.I t_eucp
holds for each logical character in the canonical buffer its display width.
During erase processing, positions in the parallel array are consulted to
figure out how many backspaces need to be sent to erase each logical
character.  (In canonical mode, one backspace of input erases one logical
character, no matter how many bytes or columns that character consumes.) This
greatly simplifies erase processing for EUC.
.PP
The
.I t_maxeuc
field holds the maximum length, in memory bytes, of the EUC character mapping
currently in use.  The
.I eucwioc
field is a sub-structure that holds information about each extended code set.
.PP
The
.I t_eucign
field aids in output post-processing (tab expansion).  When characters are
output,
.B ldterm
keeps a column to indicate what the current cursor column is supposed to be.
When it sends the first byte of an extended character, it adds the number of
columns required for that character to the output column.  It then subtracts
one from the total width in memory bytes of that character and stores the
result in
.IR t_eucign .
This field tells
.B ldterm
how many subsequent bytes to ignore for the purposes of column calculation.
.RB ( ldterm
calculates the appropriate number of columns when it sees the first byte of
the character.)
.PP
The field
.I t_eucwarn
is a counter for occurrences of bad extended characters.  It is mostly useful
for debugging.
.PP
There are two relevant files for handling multi-byte characters:
.BR euc.h " and " eucioctl.h .
The
.B eucioctl.h
contains the structure that is passed with
.BR EUC_WSET " and " EUC_WGET
calls.  The normal way to use this structure is to get
.B CSWIDTH
(see note below) from the locale via a mechanism such as
.BR getwidth (3)
or
.BR setlocale (3)
and then copy the values into the structure in
.BR eucioctl.h ,
and send the structure
via an
.BR I_STR (7)
.BR ioctl (2s)
call.  The
.B EUC_WSET call informs the
.B ldterm
module about the number of bytes in extended characters and how many columns
the extended characters from each set consume on the screen.  This allows
.B ldterm
to treat multi-byte characters as single entities for the purpose of erase
processing and to correctly calculate tab expansions for multi-byte
characters.
.PP
The file
.B euc.h
has the structure with fields for EUC width, screen width, and wide character
width.  The following functions are used to set and get EUC widths (these
functions assume the environment where the
.I eucwidth_t
structure is needed and available):
.PP
.RS 0
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#include <sys/eucioctl.h>       /* need some other things too, like
                                   stropts.h */

struct eucioc eucw;          /* for EUC_WSET/EUC_WGET to line discipline */
eucwidth_t width;            /* return struct from_getwidth() */

/* 
 * set_euc Send EUC code widths to line discipline.
 */
set_euc(e)
        struct eucioc *e;
{
    struct strioctl sb;

    sb.ic_cmd = EUC_WSET;
    sb.ic_timout = 15;
    sb.ic_len = sizeof(struct eucioc);
    sb.ic_dp = (char *) e;

    if (ioctl(0, I_STR, &sb) < 0)
        fail();
}

/* 
 * euclook Get current EUC code widths from line discipline.
 */
euclook(e)
        struct eucioc *e;
{
    struct strioctl sb;

    sb.ic_cmd = EUC_WGET;
    sb.ic_timout = 15;
    sb.ic_len = sizeof(struct eucioc);
    sb.ic_dp = (char *) e;
    if (ioctl(0, I_STR, &sb) < 0)
        fail();

    printf("CSWIDTH=%d:%d, %d:%d, %d:%d0",
           e->eucw[1], e->scrw[1], e->eucw[2],
           e->scrw[2], e->eucw[3], e->scrw[3]);
}
\s-1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IOCTLS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.B ldterm
is a
.I STREAMS
pushabl module named
.RI \(lq ldterm \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR pckt (4),
.BR ptc (4),
.BR ptem (4),
.BR ptm (4),
.BR ptmx (4tty),
.BR pts (4tty),
.BR pty (4),
.BR ttcompat (4),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B ldterm
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B ldterm
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42spg
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42spg
.]
such as
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfdoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR 4.2,
.[
svr42spg
.]
.[
svr42
.]
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3.
.[
susv3
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B pckt
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
