'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: pty.4.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-28 17:46:00 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 17:46:00 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: pty.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-28 17:46:00  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/12 09:37:37  brian
.\" - completed much of the strtty package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/10/06 12:18:59  brian
.\" - updated manual pages to pass make check and for release
.\" - updated release files for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/29 11:40:04  brian
.\" - new files for strtty package and manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strtty.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strtty.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH PTY 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B pty, ptm, pts
\- \fISTREAMS\fR Pseudo-Terminal Master and Slave Drivers
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.BI "int fd = open(" \(lq/dev/ptmx\(rq ", O_RDWR);
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B pty
is an implementation of
.I UNIX98
.[
susv2
.]
pseudo-terminals for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
using a
.IR STREAMS -based
terminal subsystem compatible with that described in the
.IR "SVR 4 SPG" ,
.[
svr4spg
.]
Stevens,
.[
advprog
%P Ch. 19 (Pseudo-Terminals)
.]
and
.IR "The Magic Garden" .
.[
magic
%P Sect. 7.13.1 (Pseudo terminals)
.]
.PP
One
.BR clone (4)
device node is created for the master side,
.BR /dev/ptmx ,
and
.RI ` N '
nodes are created for the slave side,
.BI /dev/pts/ M\fR,
where,
.I M
is a number from zero
.RB ( 0 )
through
.RI ` N '.
The default for
.RI ` N '
is 512; but, see under
.RI \(lq NOTICES \(rq,
below.
.PP
Master devices,
.BR ptm ,
are associated with corresponding slave devices
.BR pts .
The major device number of a master device is the major device number of the
.B ptm
driver; the slave, the
.B pts
driver.
Master and slave devices that correspond to each other, however, have the same
minor device (instance) number.
.PP
The master driver and slave driver have the following characteristics:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Master devices can only be opened once.
.IP \(bu
When the master side of a pseudo-terminal is closed and the slave side is
still open, the master driver sends an
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message to the slave side to indicate the hangup.
.IP ""
When the slave side Stream
head receives the
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message, the normal semantics for
.I STREAMS
causes all subsequent write operations on the slave to fail with error number
.RB [ ENXIO ]
and subsequent read operations to return terminal end-of-file once all the
availabled data has been read.  Terminal end-of-file is indicated by a zero
.RB ( 0 )
return from the
.BR read (2s)
system call or a zero control and data part returned from the
.BR getmsg (2)
or
.BR getpmsg (2s)
system calls.
.IP \(bu
Slave devices can only be opened once
they have been unlocked (see
.RI \(lq USAGE \(rq,
below).
.IP \(bu
On the last close of the slave device, a zero-length message is sent to the
master.
.IP ""
Receipt of a zero-length message at the master side Stream head causes a
terminal end-of-file condition to be indicated to the master, however, write
side operations are still successful.  When the control process receives the
terminal end-of-file condition, it can either close the master side,
dismantling the pseudo-terminal, or it can keep the master side open awaiting
a subsequent open of the slave device.  Pseudo-terminal devices can be reused
in this fashion without relinquishing the master device.
.IP ""
To keep the slave device from erroneously sending a zero-length message that
causes the master to hangup, the
.BR ptem (4)
module discards zero length messages written to the slave side.
.IP \(bu
When master and slave device are both open, a full duplex communications path
exists from one to the other.
The master and slave devices pass all
.I STREAMS
messages to their adjacent queues unaltered with the excpection of
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
messages.
.IP ""
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
messages receive some additional processing to reverse the sense of
the
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
bits is a manner identical to the
.BR pipemod (4)
module for a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4).
As the read queue of the master is connected to the write queue of the slave,
and visa versa, the
.B FLUSHR
flag is changed to a
.B FLUSHW
flag, and visa versa.  This ensures that the Stream head on the other side
will flush the appropriate queues.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The master device is opened using the
.BR openpt (3tty)
library call.  This results in an
.BR open (2s)
of the appropriate
.BR clone (4)
master pseudo-terminal device, typically
.BR /dev/ptmx .
The
.BR clone (4)
open of the master device assigns an available minor device number for the
.B ptm
driver.  A minor device number associated with the
.B ptm
driver is considered available when neither the master nor the slave device
is open for the associated minor device.
.PP
When the master device is opened, the corresponding slave device is
automatically locked out.  No user can open the corresponding slave device
until it is unlocked.
.PP
Once the master device is opened, the user process can determine the device
node name in the file system of the corresponding slave device using the
library call
.BR ptsname (3tty).
.BR ptsname (3tty)
can be used in this fashion at any time that a master device is open.
.BR ptsname (3tty)
uses the
.BR ISPTM
input-output control supported by the
.B ptm
driver as described under
.RI \(lq IOCTLS \(rq,
below.
.PP
The user process that opened the master device can change permissions on the
slave device before it is unlocked with a call to the library function
.BR grantpt (3tty).
This function will change the owner of the slave device node in the
file system to that of the user invoking the
.BR grantpt (3tty)
function.
.BR grantpt (3tty)
also sets group ownership to
.RB \(lq tty \(rq
and group write permission.  This is to automatically support programs such as
.BR write (1)
and
.BR wall (1),
that are setgid to
.RB \(lq tty \(rq,
to write to the slave device.
.BR grantpt (3tty)
uses the
.BR ZONEPT
input-output control supported by the
.B ptm
driver as described under
.RI \(lq IOCTLS \(rq,
below.
.PP
Once permissions have been changed to that of the calling process,
the calling process can use
.BR chown (2)
and
.BR chmod (2)
as normal to set whatever ownership and permissions are appropriate for the
slave side.
Throughout this process, the slave side pseudo-terminal device remains locked.
Any attempt to open the device will fail with error
.RB [ EACCES ].
.PP
Once permissions have been changed appropriately, the device may be unlocked
with a call to the library function
.BR unlockpt (3tty).
Once unlocked, any process can open the slave device node name (returned by
.BR ptsname (3tty))
to open the slave device.
.BR unlockpt (3tty)
uses the
.BR UNLKPT
input-output control supported by the
.B ptm
driver as described under
.RI \(lq IOCTLS \(rq,
below.
.PP
See
.RI \(lq EXAMPLES \(rq,
below.
.PP
When both the master and slave devices are open, the user process at either
end has a file descriptor to a
.I STREAMS
character device which provides a full duplex communications path to
the other, similar to a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4).
The two Streams are automatically connected.  The user on either side of the
pseudo-terminal may push modules onto either Stream.
For a fully functional pseudo-terminal, the user process with the slave side
open should push the
.BR ptem (4)
and
.BR ldterm (4)
modules onto the slave side of the pseudo-terminal to provide terminal
semantics; the user process on the master side, should push the
.BR pckt (4)
module to place the master Stream into packet mode.
.PP
The standard
.I STREAMS
system calls can access the pseudo-terminal devices.  The slave devices support the
.BR O_NDELAY " and " O_NONBLOCK
flags using
.I TTY semantics
as described under the system calls
.BR read (2s)
and
.BR write (2s).
Note that
.BR ldterm (4)
is responsible for setting the Stream head on the slave side to terminal
semantics.
.PP
Since the master side does not act like a terminal, if
.BR O_NONBLOCK " or " O_NDELAY
is set, read on the master side returns with the
.IR errno (3)
set to
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
if no data are available, and write returns minus one
.RB ( -1 )
with
.IR errno (3)
set to
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
if there is internal flow control.
This is normal
.I STREAMS semantics
as described under the system calls
.BR read (2s)
and
.BR write (2s).
.PP
When data are written to the master side, the entire block of data written is treated as a single
line.  The slave side process reading the terminal receives the entire block of data.  Data are not
input edited by the
.BR ldterm (4)
module regardless of the terminal mode.  The master side application is responsible for detecting an
interrupt character and sending an interrupt signal,
.RI { SIGINT }
to the process on the slave side.  This can be done using the
.B TIOCSIGNAL
input-output control.  When a process on the master side issues a
.B TIOCSIGNAL
input-output control, the argument is the number of the signal that should be sent.  The specified
signal is then sent to the process group on the slave side.
.PP
Note that the
.B TIOCSIGNAL
input-output control is not processed by the
.BR ptm
driver nor
.BR pts
driver, but is passed directly to the
.BR ptem (4)
module on the slave side of the pseudo-terminal device.  See
.BR ptem (4)
for more information as to which input-output controls can be issued by the
master side of a pseudo-terminal device.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The master driver supports the
.BR ISPTM ", " ZONEPT " and " UNLKPT
input-output controls that are used by the functions
.BR ptsname "(3), " grantpt "(3) and " unlockpt (3).
The command,
.IR command ,
to the
.BR ioctl (2s)
call is one of
.BR ISPTM ", " ZONEPT " or " UNLKPT
and the
argument,
.IR arg ,
to the
.BR ioctl (2s)
call is zero
.RB ( 0 ).
On failure, minus one
.RB ( -1 )
is returned.
.PP
These input-output control commands are only recognized by the
master side of a pseudo-terminal device.
.\"
.SS ISPTM
.PP
The input-output control command
.B ISPTM
determines whether the file descriptor is that of an open master device.  On success, it returns the
major/minor number (type
.BR dev_t )
of the master deivce which can be used to determine the name of the corresponding slave device.
.PP
The
.B ISPTM
input-output control command
is used by the
.BR ptsname (3tty)
library call to determine the name of the corresponding slave device.
.\"
.SS ZONEPT
.PP
The input-output control command
.B ZONEPT
set the ownership permissions of the slave device node in the file system to
that of the calling processes (i.e, the process that issued the input-output
control).  It also sets group ownership to
.RB \(lq tty \(rq,
and group permissions to write-only.
.PP
The
.B ZONEPT
input-output control command
is used by the
.BR grantpt (3tty)
library call to set permissions against
.BR specfs (5)
device nodes in the file system.
.\"
.SS UNLKPT
.PP
The input-output control command
.B UNLKPT
unlocks the master and slave devices.  It returns zero
.RB ( 0 )
on success.  On failure, the
.IR errno (3)
is set to
.RB [ EINVAL ]
indicating that the master device is not open.
.PP
The
.BR UNLKPT
input-output control command
is used by the
.BR unlockpt (3tty)
library call to unlock the slave device.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Use of the pseudo-terminal or terminal subsystem for
.I STREAMS
requires the installation of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package,
.BR @PACKAGE@ (5).
This package installs the devices listed under heading,
.RI \(lq DEVICES \(rq.
.PP
On Linux 2.6 systems, or Linux 2.4 systems with extended device
numbering, and with the
.BR specfs (5)
file system mounted on
.BR /dev/streams,
the number of slave devices is almost unlimited.  Application can open 65536
slave devices by opening
.BI /dev/streams/pts/ M\fR,
where
.I M
is a number from zero
.RB ( 0 )
through 65535.
See also under
.RI \(lq DEVICES \(rq,
below.
.PP
Unlike the
.I BSD
pseudo-terminal subsystem, there are no device nodes in file system master
side pseudo-terminal devices (i.e, the
.BI /dev/ptc N
devices of
.IR BSD ).
Only the
.BR clone (4)
device,
.BR /dev/pmtx
exists.
.PP
Note that unrelated processes may open the slave device.  It is possible to
pass the open master side file descriptor on a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4)
to another process at the other end of the pipe.  Also, it is possible to pass
the name acquired using
.BR ptsname (3tty)
to pass the slave side device node name in the file system to another process.
.PP
Note also, that the slave side device is a normal
.I STREAMS
character device in the file system, and that the owner of the slave device or
the super user is always able to change ownership and permissions using
.BR chown (2)
or
.BR chmod (2).
The process that has opened the slave device is also able to change ownership
and permissions using
.BR fchown (2)
or
.BR fchmod (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following provides an example of opening, releasing and unlocking a
pseudo-terminal device:
.sp
.RS 2
.nf
\fC\s-1\
int fdm, fds;
char *slavename;
extern char *ptsname();

fdm = open("/dev/ptmx", O_RDWR);  /* open master */
grantpt(fdm);                     /* change permission of slave */
unlockpt(fdm);                    /* unlock slave */
slavename = ptsname(fdm);         /* get name of slave */
fds = open(slavename, O_RDWR);    /* open slave */
if (fork() == 0) {
    close(fdm);                   /* close master */
    ioctl(fds, I_PUSH, "ptem");   /* push ptem */
    ioctl(fds, I_PUSH, "ldterm"); /* push ldterm */
    exec( /* some program */ );
}
close(fds);                       /* close slave */
ioctl(fdm, I_PUSH, "pckt");       /* push pckt */
...
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
Several modules normally used with the
.B ptm
and
.B pts
drivers are as follows:
.TP \w'\fBldterm\fR(4)\(em'u
.BR ptem (4)
A pseudo-terminal hardware emulation module (PTEM) that is normally pushed
onto the slave side of a pseudo-terminal device.  See
.BR ptem (4),
for more information.
.TP
.BR pckt (4)
A packetization module (PCKT) that is normally pushed onto the master side of
a pseudo-terminal device.  See
.BR pckt (4)
for more information.
.TP
.BR ldterm (4)
A line discipline terminal module (LDTERM) that is normally pushed onto the
slave side of a pseudo-terminal device (after
.BR ptem (4))
that (together with
.BR ptem (4))
provides a line discipline to the slave-side process.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
Devices provided by the
.BR ptm
and
.BR pts
drivers are as follows:
.TP
.BR /dev/ptmx
This is the master side
.BR clone (4)
device for the
.B ptm
driver.  It is the device that can be opened by the
.BR openpt (3tty)
library call.
.TP
.BR /dev/streams/ptm/ptmx ", " /dev/streams/clone/ptm
This is two
.BR specfs (5)
versions of the master side
.BR clone (4)
device that are equivalent to
.BR /dev/ptmx .
.TP
.BI /dev/pts/ N
These are the slave side device nodes.  On Linux 2.4 systems without extended
device numbering the maximum number of addressable devices in the external
file system is limited to 255 per major device number.  Two major device
numbers are allocated for the
.BR pts
driver on these systems for a total of 512 minor device numbers.
.TP
.BI /dev/streams/pts/ N
These are the slave side device nodes when the
.BR specfs (5)
file system is mounted on
.BR /dev/streams .
These devices provide 65536 addressable slave side devices numbered from
.BR /dev/streams/pts/0
through
.BR /dev/streams/pts/65635
on all Linux 2.4 and Linux 2.6 systems.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR grantpt (3tty),
.BR ptsname (3tty),
.BR unlockpt (3tty),
.BR ldterm (4),
.BR pckt (4),
.BR ptc (4),
.BR ptem (4),
.BR ptm (4),
.BR ptmx (4tty),
.BR pts (4tty),
.BR ttcompat (4),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B pty
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B pty
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
such as
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfdoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Portable applications will use the
.BR openpt (3tty)
library call instead of opening the
.BR /dev/ptmx
device directly.
.IP \(em
Only
.IR Solaris \(rg
implements the
.B ZONEPT
input-output control.  This
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation is incompatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg
which uses different mechanisms.
Other implementations use a user-space programs to perform the function
provided by
.BR grantpt (3tty).
See
.BR grantpt (3tty),
for more information.
.IP ""
Portable applications will use the
.BR grantpt (3tty)
library call instead of using the
.BR ZONEPT
input-output control directly.
.IP \(em
Some implementations such as
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
document a
.BR TIOCPCKT
input output control on the master side that is used instead of pushing the
.BR pckt (4)
module.
For compatibility, the
.B ptm
driver should be made to enable an honor this input-output control, but it has
not yet.
.IP ""
Portable applications programs will, therefore, push the
.BR pckt (4)
module when placing the master side Stream into packet mode.
.IP \(em
Some implementations such as
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
document that the slave side automatically performs the functions of
.BR ptem (4)
and that the
.BR ptem (4)
module is a null module.
.IP ""
Portable applications programs will, therefore, always push the
.BR ptem (4)
module on the slave side of a pseudo-terminal.  This could also be ensured by
placing an
.BR autopush (8)
specification against the slave side devices that autopush the
.BR ptem (4)
module.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR 4.2,
.[
svr42
.]
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3.
.[
susv3
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ptm " and " pts
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
