'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DLC_GET_EXCEP.4.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-05-25 12:46:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-05-25 12:46:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DLC_GET_EXCEP.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-25 12:46:53  brian
.\" - added manual pages, libraries, utilities and drivers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DLC_GET_EXCEP 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B DLC_GET_EXCEP
\- add a functional address
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Generic Data Link Control (GLDC),
.IR AIX \(rg-specific.
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dlpi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" dlpi_stream ", " cmd ", " arg );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B DLC_GET_EXCEP
input-output control returns asynchronous exception notifications to the
application user.
.IP \fBNote:\fP
This input-output contorl subroutine operation is not used by the kernel user
since all exception conditions are passed to the kernel user by way of their
exception handler.
.PP
The argument to the
.B DLC_ADDR_FUNC_ADDR
input-output control is a pointer to a
.B dlc_getx_arg
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
union dlc_ext_res {
    struct dlc_sape_res sape_res;
    struct dlc_stas_res stas_res;
    struct dlc_stah_res stah_res;
    struct dlc_radd_res radd_res;
};

#define DLC_MAX_EXT (sizeof(union dlc_ext_res))

struct dlc_getx_arg {
    uint32_t user_sap_corr;
    uint32_t user_ls_corr;
    uint32_t result_ind;
    uint32_t result_code;
    uint8_t result_ext[DLC_MAX_EXT];
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B dlc_getx_arg
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I user_sap_corr
Indicates the user service access point (SAP) correlator for this exception.
This is the user SAP correlator that was specified by the user with the
.BR DLC_ENABLE_SAP (4)
input-output control.
.TP
.I user_ls_corr
Indicates the user link station (LS) correlator for this exception.  This is
the user LS correlator that was specified by the user with the
.BR DLC_START_LS (4)
input-output control.
.TP
.I result_ind
Indicates the result indicator that can assume values as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B DLC_TEST_RES
Indicates that the test is complete: a non-extended result.  When this bit is
set, it indicates that the link test has competed as indicated in the result
code.
.TP
.B DLC_SAPE_RES
Indicates that the SAP is enabled: an extended result.  When this bit is
set, it indicats that the SAP is active and ready for LSs to be started.
.TP
.B DLC_SAPD_RES
Indicates that the SAP is enabled: a non-extended result.  When this bit is
set, it indicates that the SAP has been terminated as indicated in the result
code.
.TP
.B DLC_STAS_RES
Indicates that the LS has started: an extended result.  When this bit is set,
it indicates that the link station is connected to the remote station in
asyncrhonous or normal disconnected mode.  GDLC is waiting for link receive
data from the device driver or additional commands from the user such as the
.BR DLC_CONTACT (4)
input-output control operation.
.TP
.B DLC_STAH_RES
Indicates that the link station (LS) is halted: an extended result.  When
this bit is set, it indicates that the LS has terminated due to a
.BR DLC_HALT_LS (4)
input-output control operation from the user, a remote disconnect, or an error
condition indicated in the result code.
.TP
.B DLC_DIAL_RES
Indicates that the phone can be dialed: a non-extended result.  When this bit
is set, it indicates that the user can now manually dial an outgoing call to
the remote station.
.TP
.B DLC_IWOT_RES
Indicates inactivity without termination: a non-extended result.  When this bit
is set, it indicates that the LS protocol activity from the remote station has
terminated for the length of time specified in the configuration (receive
inactivity timeout).  The local station remains active and notifies the user if
the remote station begins to respond.  Additional notifications of inactivity
without termination are suppressed until the inactivity condition clears.
.TP
.B DLC_IEND_RES
Indicates inactivity has ended: a non-extended result.  When this bit is set,
it indicates that the LS protocol activity fromt he remote station has
restarted after a condition of inactivity without termination.
.TP
.B DLC_CONT_RES
Indicates that the remote LS has been contacted: a non-extended result.  When
this bit is set, it indicates that the GDLC has either received a Set Mode, or
has received a positive response to a Set Mode initiated by the local LS.  GDLC
is now able to send and receive normal sequenced data on this LS.
.TP
.B DLC_RADD_RES
Indicates that the remote address or name has changed: an extended result.
When this bit is set, it indicates that the remote LS address or name has been
changed from the previous value.  This can occur on synchronous data link
control (SDLC) links when negotiating a point-to-point connection, for example.
.RE
.TP
.I result_code
Indicates the result code.  The following values specify the result codes for
GDLC.  Negative return codes that are even indicates that the error condition
can be remedied by restarting the LS returning the error.  Return codes that
are odd indicate that the error is catastrophic, and, at the minimum, the SAP
must be restarted.  Additional error data may be obtained from the GDLC error
log and link trace entries.
.RS
.TP \w'\fBDLC_REMOTE_CONN\fP\(em'u
.B DLC_SUCCESS
The result indicated was successful.
.PD 0
.TP
.B DLC_PROT_ERR
Protocol error.
.TP
.B DLC_BAD_DATA
A bad data compare on a TEST.
.TP
.B DLC_NO_RBUF
No remote buffering on test.
.TP
.B DLC_RDISC
Remote intiated discontact.
.TP
.B DLC_DISC_TO
Discontact abort timeout.
.TP
.B DLC_INACT_TO
Inactivity timeout.
.TP
.B DLC_MSESS_RE
Mid-session reset.
.TP
.B DLC_NO_FIND
Cannot find the remote name.
.TP
.B DLC_INV_RNAME
Invalid remote name.
.TP
.B DLC_SESS_LIM
Session limit exceeded.
.TP
.B DLC_LST_IN_PRGS
Listen already in progress.
.TP
.B DLC_LS_NT_COND
LS unusual network condition.
.TP
.B DLC_LS_ROUT
Link station resource outage.
.TP
.B DLC_REMOTE_BUSY
Remote station found, but busy.
.TP
.B DLC_REMOTE_CONN
Specified remote is already connected.
.TP
.B DLC_NAME_IN_USE
Local name already in use.
.TP
.B DLC_INV_LNAME
Invalid local name.
.TP
.B DLC_SAP_NT_COND
SAP network unusual network condition.
.TP
.B DLC_SAP_ROUT
SAP resource outage.
.TP
.B DLC_USR_INTRF
User interface error.
.TP
.B DLC_ERR_CODE
Error in the code has been detected.
.TP
.B DLC_SYS_ERR
System error.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I result_ext
Indicates the result extension.  Several results carry extension areas to
provide additional information.  The user must provide a full-sized area for
each result reqeusted as there is no way to tell if the next result is extended
or non-extended.  The extended result areas are described by
.I result_ind
type below:
.RS
.TP
.B DLC_SAPE_RES
The following extension block provides the enabled service access point (SAP)
result extension:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#define DLC_MAX_ADDR   8

struct dlc_sape_res {
    uint32_t max_net_send;
    uint32_t lport_addr_len;
    uint32_t lport_addr[DLC_MAX_ADDR];
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B dlc_sape_res
structure has the following members:
.TP
.I max_net_send
Indicates the maximum number of bytes that the user can write for each packet
when writing network data.  This is genrally based on a communictions buffer
page cluster size, bit is not necessarily limited to a single communications
buffer structure since communications buffers can be linked.
.TP
.I lport_addr_len
Indicates the byte length of the local port network address.
.TP
.I lport_addr
Indicates the binary value of the local pport network address.
.RE
.TP
.B DLC_STAS_RES
The following parameter block provides the start link station (LS) result
extension:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#define DLC_MAX_NAME  20
#define DLC_MAX_ADDR   8

struct dlc_stas_res {
    uint32_t maxif;
    uint32_t rport_addr_len;
    uint8_t rport_addr[DLC_MAX_ADDR];
    uint32_t rname_len;
    uint8_t rname[DLC_MAX_NAME];
    uint8_t res[3];
    uint8_t rsap;
    uint32_t max_data_off;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B dlc_stas_res
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I maxif
Indicates the maximum byte size allowable for user data.  This value is
determined from the value supplied by the user at the start link station,
.BR DLC_START_LS (4),
and the actual number of bytes that can be handled by the GDLC and device
handler on a single transmit or receive.  Generally this value is less than the
size of a communications buffer page cluster.  However, some communications
devices may be able to link communications buffers together, so the maximum
I-field receivable may exceed the length of a single communications buffer.
The returned value never exceeds the value supplied by the user, but may be
smaller if buffering is not large enough to hold the specified value.
.TP
.I rport_addr_len
Indicates the length of the remote port network address in bytes.
.TP
.I rport_addr
Indicates the binary value of the remote port network address.
.TP
.I rname_len
Indicates the byte length of the remote port network name.  This is returned
only when name discovery procedures are used to locate the remote station.
Otherwise, this field is set to zero (0).  Network names can be from one (1) to
.B DLC_MAX_ADDR
characters in length.
.TP
.I rname
Indicates the name used by the remote SAP.  This field is valid only if
name-discovery procedures were used to locate the remote station.
.TP
.I res
Reserved field, set to zero (0).
.TP
.I rsap
Indicates the binary value of the remote SAP address.
.TP
.I max_data_off
Indicates the write data offset in bytes of a communications buffer where
transmit data must minimally begin.  This allows ample room for the DLC and MAC
headers to be inserted if needed.  Some DLCs may be able to prepend additional
communication buffers for their headers, and in this case will set this field
to zero (0).
.RS
.PP
This field is only valid for kernel users that pass in a communications buffer
structure on write operations.
.IP \fBNote:\fP
To align the data moves to a particular byte boundary, the kernel user may wish
to choose a value larger than the minimum value returned.
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B DLC_STAH_RES
The following parameter block provides the halt link station (LS) result
extension:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct dlc_stah_res {
    uint32_t conf_ls_corr;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B dlc_stah_res
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I conf_ls_corr
Indicates the conflicting link station correlator.  Contains the user's link
station identifier that already has the specified remote station attached.
.PP
This extension is valid only if the result code value indicates -936 (specified
remote is already connected).
.RE
.TP
.B DLC_RADD_RES
The following parameter block provides the change remote address or name result
extension:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#define DLC_MAX_NAME  20

struct dlc_radd_res {
    uint32_t rname_len;
    uint8_t rname[DLC_MAX_NAME];
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B dlc_radd_res
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I rname_len
Indicates the remote network address or name length.  Contains the byte length
of the updated remote SAP's network address or name.
.TP
.I rname
Indicates the updated address or name being used by the remote SAP.
.RE
.RE
\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success, the input-output control returns zero (0).  Upon failure, the
input-output control returnes minus one (-1) and sets
.BR errno (3)
to an appropriate error code.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When the input-output control fails, it returns minus one (-1) and set the
.BR errno (3)
to an appropriate error code.  In addition to the reasons given in
.BR ioctl (2s),
this input-output control can fail because of the following:
.TP \w'[\fBEDEADLK\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
A parameter of the input-output control is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ EFAULT ]
A memory extent exceeds the callers valid address space.
.TP
.RB [ EPROTO ]
A rule of the interface protocol was violated.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
The operation could not be immediately processed.
.TP
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
There were insufficient message buffers to complete the operation.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
There were insufficient STREAMS resources to complete the operation.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
There was insufficient memory to complete the operation.
.TP
.RB [ EDEADLK ]
A deadlock condition was detected and avoided.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Note that
.IR AIX \(rg
terminology for GDLC conflict with that of LLC
.[
iso/iec 8802-2 : 1998
.]
and LAPB.
.[
iso7776
.]
Under IEEE terminology, a link station is associated with the MAC entity or a
point-to-point data link endpoint, and one or more service access points (SAP)
are associated with the one link station.  LLC Type 2 supporting link stations
can have associated with them zero or more connections that represent a
connection between a local MAC address and a remote MAC address, a local SAP
and a remote SAP.  LAPB link stations can have associated with them 1
connection that represents a connection between the local and remote stations.
LAPD
.[
q921
.]
link stations can have associated with them one or more connections that
represent a connection associated with a local and remote SAP (TEI).
LAPF
.[
q922
.]
link stations can have associated with them one or more connections that
represent a connection associated with a local and remote SAP (DLCI).
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg
terminology in the GDLC documentation refers to this latter connection,
confusingly, as a link station (LS).
The
.IR AIX \(rg
GDLC service access point (SAP) is really a Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) and
DLSAP combination under the DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and the
.IR AIX \(rg
GDLC link station (LS) is really a connection identifier.
It may be helpful to think of a GDLC link station (LS) as an identifier of a
local and remote link station combination for a given DLSAP.
.PP
.B DLC_GET_EXCEP
is an
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
input-output control.
It might be necessary to define C preprocessor symbol
.B _AIX_SOURCE
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >,
.RB < sys/dlpi_ext.h >,
or
.RB < sys/dlpi_ioctl.h >
header files to expose the definitions, structures and declarations associated
with the input-output control.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B DLC_GET_EXCEP
input-output control is compatible with
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
and implementations based on
.IR AIX \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B DLC_GET_EXCEP
is an
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
input-output control that is not part of the DLPI standard.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
It should not be used by portable DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
.B DLC_GET_EXCEP
is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for source compatibility with DLS Providers and Users written for use with
.IR AIX \(rg,
and for porting DLS Providers and Users from
.IR AIX \(rg
to
.IR Linux \(rg.
Binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced
may be removed from a future release.
.PP
See
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatiblity information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The GDLC input-output controls are specific to
.IR AIX \(rg.
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
