'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DLC_DEL_FUNC_ADDR.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-06-18 16:45:29 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-06-18 16:45:29 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: DLC_DEL_FUNC_ADDR.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-06-18 16:45:29  brian
.\" - widespread updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-05-25 12:46:53  brian
.\" - added manual pages, libraries, utilities and drivers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DLC_DEL_FUNC_ADDR 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B DLC_DEL_FUNC_ADDR
\- add a functional address
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
Generic Data Link Control (GLDC),
.IR AIX \(rg-specific.
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dlpi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" dlpi_stream ", " cmd ", " arg );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B DLC_DEL_FUNC_ADDR
input-output control deletes a previously defined functional address mask at any
time a service access point (SAP) has ben enabled with a
.BR DLC_ENABLE_SAP (4)
input-output control.  Multiple functional address bits can be sepcified.
.PP
The argument to the
.B DLC_ADDR_FUNC_ADDR
input-output control is a pointer to a
.B dlc_func_addr
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
#define DLC_MAX_ADDR 8

struct dlc_func_addr {
    uint32_t gdlc_sap_corr;
    uint32_t len_func_addr_mask;
    uint8_t func_addr_mask[DLC_MAX_ADDR];
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B dlc_func_addr
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I gdlc_sap_corr
Specifies the generic data link control (GDLC) service access point (SAP)
correlator being requested to delete a functional address from a port.
.TP
.I len_func_addr_mask
Specifies the length in octets of the functional address mask to be deleted.
.RS
.PP
The following protocol-specific considerations apply:
.TP
.B DLC TOKEN
The
.I len_func_addr_mask
(functional address mask length) field must be set to 4.
.RE
.TP
.I func_addr_mask
Sepcifies the functional address mask value to be deleted with the functional
address of the adapter.  See the individual DLC interface documentation to
determine the length and format of this field.
.RS
.PP
The following protocol-specific considerations apply:
.TP
.B DLC TOKEN
The
.I func_addr_mask
(functional address mask) field must have each bit that you wish to reset set
to 1 within the functional address on the adapter.  Only bits 1 through 29 are
valid, bits 0, 30 and 31 are ignored.  The most significant two bytes of the
full six-byte functional address are automatically compared for 0xC000 by the
adapter and cannot be deleted.
.RE
.PP
The following protocol-specific considerations apply:
.TP
.B DLC FDDI
The delete functional address option is not supported.
.TP
.B DLC 8023
The delete functional address option is not supported.
.TP
.B DLC ETHER
The delete functional address option is not supported.
.TP
.B DLC SDLC
The delete functional address option is not supported.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success, the input-output control returns zero (0).  Upon failure, the
input-output control returnes minus one (-1) and sets
.BR errno (3)
to an appropriate error code.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When the input-output control fails, it returns minus one (-1) and set the
.BR errno (3)
to an appropriate error code.  In addition to the reasons given in
.BR ioctl (2s),
this input-output control can fail because of the following:
.TP \w'[\fBEDEADLK\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
A parameter of the input-output control is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ EFAULT ]
A memory extent exceeds the callers valid address space.
.TP
.RB [ EPROTO ]
A rule of the interface protocol was violated.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
The operation could not be immediately processed.
.TP
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
There were insufficient message buffers to complete the operation.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
There were insufficient STREAMS resources to complete the operation.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
There was insufficient memory to complete the operation.
.TP
.RB [ EDEADLK ]
A deadlock condition was detected and avoided.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Note that
.IR AIX \(rg
terminology for GDLC conflict with that of LLC
.[
iso/iec 8802-2 : 1998
.]
and LAPB.
.[
iso7776
.]
Under IEEE terminology, a link station is associated with the MAC entity or a
point-to-point data link endpoint, and one or more service access points (SAP)
are associated with the one link station.  LLC Type 2 supporting link stations
can have associated with them zero or more connections that represent a
connection between a local MAC address and a remote MAC address, a local SAP
and a remote SAP.  LAPB link stations can have associated with them 1
connection that represents a connection between the local and remote stations.
LAPD
.[
q921
.]
link stations can have associated with them one or more connections that
represent a connection associated with a local and remote SAP (TEI).
LAPF
.[
q922
.]
link stations can have associated with them one or more connections that
represent a connection associated with a local and remote SAP (DLCI).
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg
terminology in the GDLC documentation refers to this latter connection,
confusingly, as a link station (LS).
The
.IR AIX \(rg
GDLC service access point (SAP) is really a Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) and
DLSAP combination under the DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and the
.IR AIX \(rg
GDLC link station (LS) is really a connection identifier.
It may be helpful to think of a GDLC link station (LS) as an identifier of a
local and remote link station combination for a given DLSAP.
.PP
.B DLC_DEL_FUNC_ADDR
is an
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
input-output control.
It might be necessary to define C preprocessor symbol
.B _AIX_SOURCE
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >,
.RB < sys/dlpi_ext.h >,
or
.RB < sys/dlpi_ioctl.h >
header files to expose the definitions, structures and declarations associated
with the input-output control.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR DLC_ADD_FUNC_ADDR (4),
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B DLC_DEL_FUNC_ADDR
input-output control is compatible with
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
and implementations based on
.IR AIX \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B DLC_DEL_FUNC_ADDR
is an
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
input-output control that is not part of the DLPI standard.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
It should not be used by portable DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
.B DLC_DEL_FUNC_ADDR
is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for source compatibility with DLS Providers and Users written for use with
.IR AIX \(rg,
and for porting DLS Providers and Users from
.IR AIX \(rg
to
.IR Linux \(rg.
Binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatibility experienced
may be removed from a future release.
.PP
See
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR STREAMS (9),
for additional compatiblity information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The GDLC input-output controls are specific to
.IR AIX \(rg.
.[
aixdlpi
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
