'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ip_strm_mod.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2005/03/30 13:38:58 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\" Copyright (C) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:38:58 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxns.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH IP_STRMS 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ip_strms_mod, ip_strms
\- IP STREAMS Module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This module is pushed onto an open stream to a driver which implements the
DLPI STREAMS protocol
.[
dlpi
.]
described in
.BR dlpi (7).
It provides an interface between the DLPI driver below and the Linux IP module
above.  The effect is to be able to use a STREAMS DLPI driver as a network
interface below Linux TCP/IP.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B ip_strms
module monitors DLPI primitives sent from above on the stream file and
shuttles them between the process which pushed the module onto the stream and
the DLPI driver below.  The
.B ip_strms
module will also allow data to be exchanged between the stream user and the
DLPI driver until such time as the stream is logically attached to IP as a
network driver.
.PP
To attach the stream to IP, the user process issues an ioctl of type
.BR SIOCSIFNAME .
 This ioctl causes
.BR ip_strms
to register itself as a network driver of the given name.  From that point
onward data, in the form of
.BR M_DATA (9)
messages or of
.BR DL_UNITDATA_IND (7)
messages, are forwarded upstream to IP rather than to the stream user.
Likewise, data messages received from IP are forwarded downstream to the DLPI
driver as
.BR DL_UNITDATA_REQ (7)
messages.  Downstream messages are completely formatted for the transmission
medium and should be processed accordingly by the DLPI driver below.
.PP
After attaching to IP, the stream user must continue to remain in execution,
holding the stream open.  If the stream closes then
.B ip_strms
will detach from IP.  Also, if the stream user sends a
.B SIOCSIFNAME
ioctl with an empty name then
.B ip_strms
will detach from IP.
.PP
The interfaces attached to IP will appear in the output of the
.BR netstat (8)
and
.BR ifconfig (8)
commands.  An "ifconfig" down operation on the interface will also cause a
detach from IP.
.PP
The application level program which manages the connection between a DLPI
driver and TCP/IP should be coded to implement the following steps:
.IP \(bu 4
Open a stream to the DLPI driver.  This can be a clone open.
.IP \(bu
Execute an
.B I_PUSH
ioctl on
.RB \(lq ip_strms .\(rq
See
.BR streamio (7).
.IP \(bu
Send the DLPI attach and bind primitives downstream.
See
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ (7)
and
.BR DL_BIND_REQ (7).
.IP \(bu
Execute an
.B SIOCSIFNAME
ioctl with the desired interface name.  After this succeeds the DLPI driver
will be connected to TCP/IP as a network driver via the
.B ip_strms
module.
.IP \(bu
Perform any needed
.BR ifconfig (8)
or
.BR route (8)
commands for the interface.
.IP \(bu
Sleep indefinitely keeping the stream open.  Killing the process will cause
the stream to be detached from IP.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
I have been meaning to reimplement this capability as a
.I STREAMS
multiplexing driver instead of a module.  As a multiplexing driver, the DLPI
streams would be
.BR I_LINK 'ed
or
.BR I_PLINK 'ed
under the multiplexing driver rather than having a module pushed.  In
particular,
.BR I_PLINK
(see
.BR streamio (7))
would allow the establishing process to terminate.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Most of the devices and modules here appeared in earlier releases of LiS.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T4
