'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: np_ip.4.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/05/07 22:12:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/05/07 22:12:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: np_ip.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/05/07 22:12:55  brian
.\" - updated for NPI-IP driver
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/26 00:52:35  brian
.\" - sync
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/04/22 01:07:10  brian
.\" - updating manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/04/05 09:44:52  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH IP 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B np_ip
\- STREAMS Internet Protocol (IP) Driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netinet/ip.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_ip.h>
.HP 12
.BI "int " ip_stream " = open(" ip_device ", " oflag );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int " ip_xtistr " = t_open(" ip_device ", " oflag );
.HP
.BI "int " ip_socket " = socket(" \fRPF_INET ", " socket_type ", " \fRIPPROTO_IP );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B NPI-IP
driver provide an interface between
.I STREAMS
drivers and the Linux IP subsystem.  It presents an
.BR npi (7)
Netwwork Provider Interface 
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
to
.I STREAMS
drivers and provides access to the native Linux IP subsystem.
.PP
.B NPI-IP
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
pseudo-device driver and provides the following devices:
.TP
.I /dev/np_ip
This devices provides acess to the
.B NPI-IP
protocol service interface using the N-primitives of the Network Provider Interface,
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
used for the Internet Protocol as described in
.BR npi_ip (7).
The
.BR npi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR sockets (3)
library and provides the
.B NPI-IP
interface using sockets as described in
.BR npi_ip (7).
This stream provides both connectionless and connection-oriented NPI services.
.TP
.I /dev/rawip
This device provides access to the
.B NPI-IP
protocol service interface using the T-primitives of the Transport Provider
Interface,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
used for the Internet Protocol as described in
.BR tpi_ip (7).
The
.BR tpi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR xnet (3)
or
.BR xti (3)
library and proivdes the
.B NPI-IP
interface using XTI as described in
.BR xti_ip (3).
.PP
.B NPI-IP
provides one socket type for use by the
.BR sockets (3)
library
.BR socket (7)
calls.
.B NPI-IP
provides sockets in the protocol family
.B PF_INET
using the protocol number
.BR IPPROTO_IP .
The
.I socket_type
argument can be one of the following:
.TP
.B SOCK_RAW
A standard
.I SOCK_RAW
socket that provides direct access to IP packets.  This socket uses the
underlying
.I /dev/rawip
transport service provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The following entries in
.B /etc/protosw
provides the information necessary for
.BR socksys (4)
to use these devices:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
PF_INET     SOCK_RAW      IPPROTO_IP    /dev/rawip   tpi   clts
PF_INET     SOCK_RAW      IPPROTO_IP    /dev/np_ip   npi   clts
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR socksys (4)
and
.BR protosw (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.BR streamio (7)
.I I_STR
system calls on the
.IR ip_stream ", " ip_xtistr " or " ip_socket .
These management controls are described in
.BR ip_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B NPI-IP
has several implementations.  This manpage is for the
.IR STREAMS (4)
implementation.  There is also an
.BR INET (4)
implementation which provides
.BR tpi (7)
access to the Linux NET4 version of
.BR NPI-IP .
For more information, see
.BR ip (7).
.PP
Note that using
.BR sockets (3)
over
.I STREAMS
for the
.B NPI-IP
driver might be rather inefficient: unless you need to push modules, use a
direct Linux native socket instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The current
.B NPI-IP
pseudo-device driver hook directly into the Linux kernel IP subsystem.
Previous approaches used a STREAMS over Sockets method that was inefficient
and inflexible.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <sys/socket.h> ,
.BR <netinet/ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/xti.h> ,
.BR <sys/xti_ip.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/ip ,
.IR /dev/rawip .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR npi (7),
.BR npi_ip (7),
.BR protosw (5),
.BR ip (7),
.BR ip (8),
.BR ip_ioctl (4),
.BR socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR socksys (4),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR STREAMS (4),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR tpi_ip (7),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_ip (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.B NPI-IP
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.I /dev/rawip
device providing a Transport Provider Interface
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
is roughly compatible with the raw ip TPI streams provided by
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and other
.IR UNIX \(rg
implementations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The TPI and NPI interfaces to IP services are implementation dependent and
are not subject to standardization.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.I STREAMS
access to IP services was originally performed using an STREAMS over Socket
approach using the
.BR INET (4)
pseudo-device driver from the
.I strinet
package.  A more flexible direct implementation was performed using a separate
driver that hooks directly into the Linux IP subsystem.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T4
