'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: osr61.5.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/02/27 01:35:57 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/27 01:35:57 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: osr61.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/02/27 01:35:57  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/02/25 12:45:05  brian
.\" - added new files for release package
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database osr61.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so osr61.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH OSR61 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B @PACKAGE@
\- @PACKAGE_TITLE@ package
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This is the
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ )
package for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
OpenSS7
.I STREAMS
add-on packages are separate add-on packages to the
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
release that provide additional functionality and protocol support not traditionally found on UNIX
systems, or which have traditionally fallen into the domain of value-add system software, or where
the functionality was optional for a number of implementations.  The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package is one of several optional add-on packages that provides enhanced
.I STREAMS
support beyond that provided by the base
.I STREAMS
packages.  This package provides support for the
.I Dialogic Open System Release 6.1
not provided by the base
.I STREAMS
package.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package provides
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers, libraries, programs, initialization scripts, and daemons that
implement the 
.IR "Dialogic Open System Release 6.1" .
.PP
The package builds and installs the following
.I STREAMS
kernel modules and drivers:
.IP \(en \w'\(en\(em'u
.B streams_dlgn.ko
driver
.PD 0
.IP \(en
.B streams_dvbm.ko
module
.RI \(lq dvbm \(rq.
.IP \(en
.B streams_gncfd.ko
driver
.RB \(lq /dev/streams/clone/gncfd \(rq
.IP \(en
.B streams_gpio.ko
driver
.RB \(lq /dev/streams/clone/gpio \(rq
.IP \(en
.B streams_sctmr.ko
module
.RI \(lq sctmr \(rq.
.IP \(en
.B streams_mercd.ko
driver
.RB \(lq /dev/streams/clone/mercd \(rq
.IP \(en
.B pmacd.ko
driver
.RB \(lq /dev/pmacd \(rq.
.IP \(en
.B ctimod.ko
kernel module
.PD
.TP
.BR dlgn (4)
The
.BR dlgn (4)
driver is a device driver that provides access to the Dialogic\(rg Springware
and Antares boards.
.IP ""
The
.BR dlgn (4)
is the main driver that controls the firmware interfaces.  It follows the
Springware protocol to communicate with the firmware.  There is no DPC or
timer in this driver and its use has not been required since SRAM access is
done quickly enough in the messaging via the channel and device SRAM areas.
No other processing is required in this driver.
.BR dlgn (4)
will read or write a block of data from and to the host runtime library or the
bulk data module.
.IP ""
This driver is complete by untested.
.TP
.BR dvbm (4)
The
.BR dvbm (4)
module is a device access module that is pushed over a
.BR dlgn (4)
driver Stream.
.IP ""
The bulk data module buffers media data from and to the
.BR dlgn (4)
driver.  It is configured by the host runtime libraries (which can be
configured by the application via setparm API).  The configuration sets the
flow of data between
.BR dlgn (4)
and host.
.IP ""
This module is complete by untested.
.TP
.BR gncfd (4)
The
.BR gncfd (4)
driver is a generic configuration driver that is used by the Dialogic\(rg
runtim libraries to perform configuration for Dialogic\(rg Springware and
Anatares boards.
.IP ""
The generic configuration driver interfaces with the
.BR gncfd (4)
driver library
.RB ( libgncf.so )
and is used to set up local devices for the Springware boards.  The driver is
invoked after firmware has been downloaded via the
.B voxctl
application.  After the logical devices are created
.RB ( dxxxB1 ", " dxxB1C1 ,
etc.), the driver will start the board (enable interrupts).
.B voxctl
will create the
.I /usr/dialogic/cfg/.voxcfg
file that contains all the logical device information given by the
.BR gncfd (4)
driver.
.IP ""
This driver is complete by untested.
.TP
.BR gpio (4)
The
.BR gpio (4)
driver is the generic input-output interface for downloading firmware.
.IP ""
The generic input-output driver is used to download firmware onto the board.
This driver interfaces with the
.BR gpio (4)
driver library,
.RB ( libgpio.so )
and is utilized by the
.B genload
application during the start of all the Dialogic\(rg services.  The driver
locates boards in the system by providing the physical address, bus, slot and
other information to
.BR genload .
This is used by
.B gpiodebug
for debugging the memory and input-output devices.
.IP ""
This driver is complete by untested.
.TP
.BR sctmr (4)
The
.BR sctmr (4)
module is a timer module that is pushed over a
.BR dlgn (4)
driver Stream (but may also be pushed over a null Stream such as
.BR nuls (4)).
.IP ""
The timer module is used by the global call libraries to keep time in kernel
mode.  No other functionality is performed by this driver.  It has no
interaction with the board or the other drivers.
.IP ""
This module is complete by untested.
.TP
.BR mercd (4)
The
.BR mercd (4)
driver is a device driver for the Dialogic\(rg DM3 family of boards including
the Mecury board (after which it is named).
.IP ""
The DM3 driver,
.BR mercd (4),
is a
.I STREAMS
based device driver.  The
.BR mercd (4)
driver is based on the Dialogic\(rg Media III (a.k.a. DM3) architecture.  The
driver consists of both SRAM protocol (used in older products like DMVA) and
Werewolf (WW) protocol (used in newer platforms like the DMVB/DMN160 boards)
merged into one driver.
.IP ""
This driver is complete by untested.
.TP
.BR pmacd (4)
The
.BR pmacd (4)
driver is a non-STREAMS driver for the Dialogic\(rg IPT family of boards.
.IP ""
The packet media access card driver,
.BR pmacd (4),
is a straightforward driver for the IPT family of boards based on Intelligent
Input-Output (I2O) technology.  It provides all the driver interfaces, namely
the user, drvier interfaces.  This driver only supports messaging based on the
IPT protocol and Streaming is not supported on the IPT boards.  This makes the
PMAC driver simple and efficient since there is not much processing required
at the driver level.  The driver uses DPC and a 40 millisecond timer.
.IP ""
This driver is complete by untested.
.TP
.BR ctimod (4)
The
.BR ctimod (4)
kernel module is a CTI wrapper module that provides wrappers of kernel
functions for use principally by the
.BR pmacd (4)
driver.
.IP ""
.BR ctimod (4)
provides an interface to kernel level services through a thin layer of
abstraction calls.  This is available only on the PMAC driver.
.IP ""
This module is complete by untested.
.PP
This package does not build any shared object or static libraries.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package includes kernel modules,
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
.I STREAMS
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and
development environment for the development and execution of
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
protocol stack components and applications for the
.I "SVR 4.2"
.I STREAMS
environment.
.PP
This distribution is only currently applicable to
.B Linux
2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted at
.IR ix86 ", " x86_64 ", " ppc " and " ppc64
architectures, but should build and install for other architectures as well.
.PP
This package is currently complete but untested.
It is being released as a reference point for the community.  If you are interested in completion of
this package, contact
.RB < info@openss7.com >.
.\"
.\"
.SH "PACKAGE CONTENTS"
.PP
The
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ )
package contains the following manual pages:

.HP 12
.BR ctimod (4)\ \-\ \c
CTI DKI kernel module
.PD 0
.HP
.BR dlgn (4)\ \-\ \c
Dialogic\(rg Springware \fISTREAMS\fR device driver
.HP
.BR dvbm (4)\ \-\ \c
device access module
.HP
.BR gncfd (4)\ \-\ \c
generic configuration \fISTREAMS\fR driver
.HP
.BR gpio (4)\ \-\ \c
general input-output \fISTREAMS\fR driver
.HP
.BR mercd (4)\ \-\ \c
Dialogic\(rg DM3 \fISTREAMS\fR device driver
.HP
.BR pmacd (4)\ \-\ \c
Dialogic\(rg IPT device driver
.HP
.BR sctmr (4)\ \-\ \c
timer module
.HP
.BR osr61 (5)\ \-\ \c
The \fB@PACKAGE_TITLE@\fR package.
.HP
.BR osr61_mknod (8)\ \-\ \c
create \fB@PACKAGE@\fR device nodes.
.HP
.BR test-osr61 (8)\ \-\ \c
test case executable for the \fB@PACKAGE@\fR package.
.HP
.BR ctimod (9)\ \-\ \c
CTI driver-kernel interface
.HP
.BR dlgn_undoc (9)\ \-\ \c
undocumented \fBdlgn\fR(4) driver exports
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
The
.B osr61
package provides the following
.I STREAMS
modules:
.HP
.BR dvbm (4)\ \-\ \c
device access module.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR sctmr (4)\ \-\ \c
timer module.
.HP
.BR ctimod (4)\ \-\ \c
DKI replacement kernel module.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
The
.B osr61
package provides the following
.I STREAMS
drivers:
.HP 12
.BR dlgn (4)\ \-\ \c
the Antares and Springware drivers.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR gncfd (4)\ \-\ \c
the general configuration driver.
.HP
.BR gpio (4)\ \-\ \c
the general purpose input-output driver (for loading firmware).
.HP
.BR mercd (4)\ \-\ \c
the DM3 card driver.
.HP
.BR pmacd (4)\ \-\ \c
the IPT card driver.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH PREREQUISITES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package request the following packages to be installed:
.TP
.BR streams (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
base package.
.TP
.BR strcompat (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
compatibility modules package.
.TP
.BR strxns (5)
The
.B OpenSS7 XNS Networking Package
that contains the DLPI
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and NPI
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
header files.
.TP
.B strxnet (5)
The
.B OpenSS7 XTI/TLI Networking Package
that contains the TPI
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
header files.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
No release of the
.B @PACKAGE@
package is compatible with
.IR LiS .
.I LiS
lacks the Stream head support necessary to properly implement a terminal device.  As
.I LiS
is long deprecated, this should not present a problem.  The
.B @PACKAGE@
package is comatible with
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" ,
which always contained full terminal support in the Stream head.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package has known and unknown defects.  This is a
.I pre-alpha
release.  Some defects might be harmful.  No validation testing whatsoever has been performed by the
.I OpenSS7 Project
on this software.  The software might not even configure or compile.  The
.I OpenSS7 Project
recommends that you do not use this software. Use at your own risk.  Remember that there is
.BR "NO WARRANTY" .
(See the section
.RI \(lq "NO WARRANTY" \(rq
under the
.RI \(lq "GNU General Public License" \(rq,
in the manual.)
.PP
This software is
.I pre-alpha
software.  As such, it will crash your kernel.  Installation of the software will irreparably mangle
your header files or Linux distribution in such a way as to make it unusable.  Crashes will lock
your system and rebooting the system will not repair the problem.  You will lose all the data on
your system.  Because this software will crash your kernel, the resulting unstable system can
destroy computer hardware or peripherals making them unusable.  You will void the warranty on any
system on which you run this software.
.BR "YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED" .
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package is compatible with a wide array of production
.B Linux
distributions, kernels, and target architectures, but is considered
.I pre-alpha
grade by
.IR "The OpenSS7 Project" .
At the time of release, the
.B @PACKAGE@
package had no known bugs.  Problems or development requests can be reported to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
Please, however, use the included
.B send-pr
script for generating actionable problem reports or development requests.
Please see the file
.RI \(lq PROBLEMS \(rq
in the release for problem reporting guidelines.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ctimod (4),
.BR dlgn (4),
.BR dvbm (4),
.BR gncfd (4),
.BR gpio (4),
.BR mercd (4),
.BR pmacd (4),
.BR sctmr (4),
.BR osr61_mknod (8),
.BR test-osr61 (8),
.BR ctimod (9),
.BR dlgn_undoc (9),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The drivers in the
.B @PACKAGE@
package are compatible with the Dialogic\(rg Open System Release 6.1 version 239 GPL
drivers.  It should not be necessary to recompile libraries used with the
driver to use these modified drivers that work with
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.B "Linux Fast-STREAMS"
provides a
.B libLiS.so
library that can be dynamically linked by these libraries to access these
drivers without knowledge of the fact that
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
is providing the underlying STREAMS framework for the drivers.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The drivers in the
.B @PACKAGE@
package conform to the Dialogic\(rg Open System Release 6.1 version 239 GPL
drivers.  Asside from a number of the drivers and modules being STREAMS drivers,
These drivers do not conform to any standard.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package, based on the Dialogic\(rg Open System Release 6.1 GPL drivers, was
first publicly released by
.I The OpenSS7 Project
(version
.BR 0.9.2.1 )
at the beginning of 2007.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
