'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ioscan.8.man,v 1.1.2.1 2011-02-07 02:14:43 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:14:43 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ioscan.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2011-02-07 02:14:43  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH IOSCAN 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ioscan
\- scan I/O system
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fBioscan\fP\ 'u
\fBioscan\fP [\fB-k\fP|\fB-u\fP]
[\fB-d\fP\0\fIdriver\fP|\fB-C\fP\0\fIclass\fP]
[\fB-I\fP\0\fIinstance\fP]
[\fB-H\fP\0\fIhw_path\fP]
[\fB-f\fP[\fB-n\fP]|\fB-F\fP[\fB-n\fP]]
[\fIdevfile\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBioscan\fP
\fB-M\fP\0\fIdriver\fP
\fB-H\fP\0\fIhw_path\fP
[\fB-I\fP\0\fIinstance\fP]
.HP
\fBioscan\fP
{\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fBioscan\fP
{\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fBioscan\fP
{\fB-c\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 1
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ioscan
scans system hardware, usable I/O system devices, or kernel I/O system data
structures as appropriate, and list the results.  For each hardware module on
the system,
.B ioscan
displays by default the hardware path to the hardware module, the class of
the hardware module, and a brief description.
.PP
By default,
.B ioscan
scans the system and lists all reportable hardware found.  The types of
hardware reported include processors, memory, interface cards and I/O
devices.  Scanning the hardware may cause drivers to be unbound and others
bound in their place to match actual system hardware.  Entities that cannot
be scanned are not listed.
.PP
In the second form shown,
.B ioscan
forces the specified software driver into the kernel I/O system at the given
hardware path and forces the software driver to be bound.  This can be used
to make the system recognize a device that cannot be recognized
automatically; for example, because it has not yet been connected to the
system, does not support auto configuration, or because diagnostics need to
be run on a faulty device.
.PP
Generally,
.B ioscan
requires superuser privileges.  A non root user may use the
.B -k
option, only to display the kernel hardware tree.  Driver binding and actual
hardware scanning is restricted to root.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B ioscan
recognizes the following options:
.TP
.BR -C ", " --class " \fI\)class\fP
Restrict the output listing to those devices belonging to the specified
class.  Cannot be used with
.BR -d .
.TP
.BR -d ", " --driver " \fI\)driver\fP
Restrict the output listing to those devices controlled by the specified
driver.  Cannot be used with
.BR -C .
.TP
.BR -f ", " --full
Generate a full listing, displaying the module's class, instance number,
hardware path, driver, software state, hardware type, and a brief
description.
.TP
.BR -F ", " --fields
Produce a compact listing of fields (described below), separated by colons.
This option overrides the
.B -f
option.
.TP
.BR -H ", " --hwpath " \fI\)hw_path\fP
Restrict the scan and output listing to those devices connected at the
specified hardware path.  The hardware path must be a bus path.  Scanning
below the bus level will not probe the hardware and may produce incorrect
results.  For example, specifying the path at the target level will always
change the state of the device attached to it as
.BR NO_HW .
When used with
.BR -M ,
this option specifies the full hardware path at which to bind the software
modules.
.TP
.BR -I ", " --instance " \fI\)instance\fP
Restrict the scan and output listing to the specified instance, when used
with either
.BR -d " or " -C.
When used with
.BR -M ,
specifies the desired instance number for binding.
.TP
.BR -k ", " --kernel
Scan kernel I/O system data structures instead of the actual hardware and
list the results.  No binding or unbinding of drivers is performed.  The
.BR -d ", " -C ", " -I ", and " -H
options can be used to restrict listings.  Cannot be used with
.BR -u .
This option does not require superuser privileges.
.TP
.BR -M ", " --make " \fI\)driver\fP
Specifies the software driver to bind at the hardware path given by the
.B -H
option.  Must be used with the
.B -H
option.
.TP
.BR -n ", " --names
List device names in the output.  Only special files in the
.B /dev
directory and its subdirectories are listed.
.TP
.BR -u ", " --usable
Scan and list usable I/O system devices instead of the actual hardware.
Usable I/O devices are those having a driver in the kernel and an assigned
instance number.  The
.BR -d ", " -C ", " -I ", and " -H
options can be used to restrict listings.  The
.B -u
option cannot be used with
.BR -k .
.PP
The
.BR -d " and " -C
options can be used to obtain listings of subsets of the I/O system, although
the entire system is still scanned.  Specifying
.BR -d " or " -C
along with
.BR -I ,
or specifying
.B -H
or a
.I devfile
causes
.B ioscan
to restrict both the scan and the listing to the hardware subset indicated.
.\"
.\"
.SS Fields
.PP
The
.B -F
option can be used to generate a compact listing of fields separated by
colons
.RB ( : ),
useful for producing custom listings with
.BR awk (1).
Fields include the module's bus type, cdio, is_block, is_char, is_pseudo,
block major number, character major number, minor number, class, driver,
hardware path, identify bytes, instance number, module path, module name,
software state, hardware type, a brief description, and card instance.  If a
field does not exist, consecutive colons hold the field's position.  Fields
are defined as follows:
.TP \w'\fIsoftware_state\fP\ \(em'u
.I class
A device category, defined in the files located in the directory
.B /usr/conf/master.d
and consistent with the listings output by
.BR lsdev (8).
Examples are disk, printer, and tape.
.TP
.I instance
The instance number associated with the device or card.  It is a unique
number assigned to a card or device within a class.  If no driver is
available for the hardware component or an error occurs binding the driver,
the kernel will not assign an instance number and a
.RB ( -1 ),
is listed.
.TP
.I hw_path
A numerical string of hardware components, notated sequentially from the bus
address to the device address.  Typically, the initial number is appended by
slash
.RB ( / ),
to represent a bus converter (if required by your machine), and subsequent
numbers are separated by periods
.RB ( . ).
Each number represents the location of a hardware component on the path to
the device.
.TP
.I driver
The name of the driver that controls the hardware component.  If no driver is
available to control the hardware component, a question mark
.RB ( ? )
is displayed in the output.
.TP
.I software_state
The result of software binding.
.RS
.TP \w'\fBUNCLAIMED\fP\ 'u
.B CLAIMED
software bound successfully.
.PD 0
.TP
.B UNCLAIMED
no associated software found
.TP
.B DIFF_HW
software found does not match the associated software
.TP
.B NO_HW
the hardware at this address is no longer responding
.TP
.B ERROR
the hardware at this address is responding but is in an error state
.TP
.B SCAN
node locked, try again later
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I hardware_type
Entity identifier for the hardware component.  It is one of the following
strings:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBPROCESSOR\fP\ 'u
.B UNKNOWN
There is no hardware associated or the type of hardware is unknown.
.PD 0
.TP
.B PROCESSOR
Hardware component is a processor.
.TP
.B MEMORY
Hardware component is memory.
.TP
.B BUS_NEXUS
Hardware component is bus converter or bus adapter.
.TP
.B INTERFACE
Hardware component is an interface card.
.TP
.B DEVICE
Hardware component is a device.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I bus_type
Bus type associated with the node.
.TP
.I cdio
The name associated with the context-dependent I/O module.
.TP
.I is_block
A boolean value indicating whether a device block major number exists.
A
.BR T " or " F
is generated in this field.
.TP
.I is_char
A boolean value indicating whether a device character major number exists.
A
.BR T " or " F
is generated in this field.
.TP
.I is_pseudo
A boolean value indicating a pseudo driver.
A
.BR T " or " F
is generated in this field.
.TP
.I block_major
The device block major number.  A
.B -1
indicates that a device block major number does not exist.
.TP
.I character_major
The device character major number.  A
.B -1
indicates that a device character major number does not exist.
.TP
.I minor
The device minor number.
.TP
.I identify_bytes
The identify bytes returned from a module or device.
.TP
.I module_path
The software components separated by periods
.RB ( . ).
.TP
.I module_name
The module name of the software component controlling the node.
.TP
.I description
A description of the device.
.TP
.I card_instance
The instance number of the hardware interface card.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
.B ioscan
exits with a status of
.B 0
upon normal completion and
.B 1
when an error occurred.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B ioscan
is compatible only with
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
devices.
The command will not function with regular
.B Linux
devices.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Scan the system hardware and list all the devices belonging to the
.I disk
device class:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
ioscan -C disk
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Forcibly bind driver
.I tape2
at the hardware path
.IR 8.4.1 .
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
ioscan -M tape2 -H 8.4.1
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/ioscan
contains the
.B ioscan
command.
.TP
.B /dev/config
The device configuration database.
.TP
.B /dev/*
The device directory.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR config (8),
.BR lsdev (8),
.BR ioconfig (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B ioscan
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B ioscan
command is provided for compatibility with the
.IR HP-UX \(rg
command of the same name,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B ioscan
is provided only for compatibility with
.IR HP-UX \(rg
for
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
devices.
The command will not function with regular
.B Linux
devices.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR -h ", " -V " and " -c ,
all long options, are specific to this
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B ioscan
and should not be used by portable applications.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the
.BR -h ", " -V " or -c
options.  They should not be used by portable applications.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR HP-UX \(rg
documentation.
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B ioscan
was developed by HP.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI



