'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man8/ipstat.8.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2015  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH IPSTAT 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@"
.SH NAME
.B ipstat
\- display statistics concerning TP4/CLNP network operation
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fB\)ipstat\fP\ 'u
\fB\)ipstat\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fB\)ipstat\fP
{\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fB\)ipstat\fP
{\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fB\)ipstat\fP
{\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Display the read-only statistics concerning network operation that TP4/CLNP
keeps.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.SS Command Options
The following command options are mutually exclusive: only one command option
should be present on the command line at a time.  The exceptions are the
\fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP and \fB-C\fP options that can be specified alone, or with
any other option.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered, display usage information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered, display version information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered, display copying information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.\"
.SS Common Options
.PP
The following common options can be specified together with a command option.
It is not an error to specify options that are not necessary for the command
option with which they are specified.
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Suppress normal output.  Only the return code of the command is of interest.
This has the same effect as \fB--verbose=0\fP.
Enables quiet mode.  Only error messages are displayed.
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--debug\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the debugging verbosity.  Sets the debugging verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the debuggin verbosity by one
(1) when \fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the output verbosity.  Sets the output verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the output verbosity by one when
\fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.B ipstat
does not accept non-option arguments.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILE FORMAT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
.PP
.TP
.B Number of PDU's received
The number of correctly formated NPDUs this system has received.
.TP
.B Number of PDU's transmitted
The number of NPDUs this system has transmitted.
.TP
.B Number of segmented PDU's received
The number of NPDUs this system has received as a series of segmented data
units.
.TP
.B Number of segmented PDU's transmitted
The number of NPDUs this system has segmented and successfully transmitted.
.TP
.B Number of bytes of user data received
The number of bytes of user data contained in Data Transfer (DT) NPDUs this
system has received.
.TP
.B Number of bytes of user data transmitted
The number of bytes of user data contained in Data Transfer (DT) NPDUs this
system has transmitted.
.TP
.B Number of PDU fragments received
The number of incomplete (segmented) NPDUs this system has received.
.TP
.B Number of PDU fragments transmitted
The number of incomplete (segmented) NPDUs this system has transmitted.
.TP
.B Number of PDU fragments discarded
The number of incomplete (segmented) NPDUs this system has discarded.
.TP
.B Number of ER PDU's received
The number of Error Report (ER) NPDUs this system has received.
.TP
.B Number of ER PDU's transmitted
The number of Error Report (ER) NPDUs this system has transmitted.
.TP
.B Number of discarded PDU's unknown reasons (bad header)
The number of times this system has received an NPDU that contained errors in
the CLNP header and therefore could not be parsed.
.TP
.B Number of discarded PDU's caused by bad checksum
The number of times this system has received an NPDU that contained a
checksum that indicated the NPDU was corrupt.
.TP
.B Number of discarded PDU's caused by unknown NSAP address
The number of times this system has discarded an NPDU because it contained an
unknown NSAP.  In end systems, this counter is incremented when the NSAP
address that the NPDU contains does not match any NSAP address specified for
this system.  In intermediate systems, this counter is incremented when the
system's dynamic or static routing table does not contain a path to the end
system whose NSAP address is contained in the NPDU.
.TP
.B Number of discarded PDU's caused by lifetime expiration
The number of times this system has discarded an NPDU because it could not be
delivered to an end system within the specified lifetime of the NPDU.  NPDU
lifetime expiration occurs only in intermediate systems.
.TP
.B Number of discarded PDU's caused by invalid options
The number of times this system has discarded an NPDU because it contained an
invalid type 2 option, or any syntax error in the options portion of the
header.
.TP
.B Number of discarded PDU's caused by reassembly timeout
The number of times this system has discarded segmented NPDU because all
segments of the NPDU were not received before the reassembly timer expired.
.TP
.B Number of discarded PDU's caused by lack of reassembly resources
The number of times the system has discarded a segmented NPDU because the
system did not have sufficient receive buffers or reassembly data structures
available.
.TP
.B Number of discarded PDU's caused by segmentation not permitted
The number of times this system has discarded an NPDU because the NPDU was
segmented, but segmentation had been disabled.
.TP
.B Number of discarded PDU's caused by inactive subset used
The number of times this system has received an NPDU that was built under the
Inactive Network Layer Protocol (INLP) when the system's ability to received
an INLP NPDU was disabled.
.TP
.B Number of inactive subset PDU's transmitted
The number of NPDUs built under INLP transmitted.
.TP
.B Number of inactive subset PDU's received
The number of NPDUs build under INLP received.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates the the option or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of normal output to
.I stdout
and diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.SS Error Messages
.PP
The following error messages can be generated:
.TP
.B could not open \fIdevice\fP
The TP4/CLNP module could not be opened, probably because the
.BR STREAMS (9)
stack is not initialized, or TP4/CLNP has not been installed.
Invoke the
.BR osid (8)
stack configuration utility, or install the TP4/CLNP modules.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR STREAMS (9),
.BR osid (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B ipstat
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B ipstat
is compatible with
.IR "IRIS OSI"
.[
irixosi
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Options \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP, \fB-C\fP, and all long
options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B strxt
and should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP
and \fB-C\fP options.  They should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
Options \fB--help\fP and \fB--version\fP are provided for compatibility with
GNU coding standards; \fB--copying\fP, OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "IRIS OSI"
.[
irixosi
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B ipstat
first appeared in
.IR "IRIS OSI" .
This command was named at a time when IP stood for Internetworking Protocol:
another name for CLNP.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
