'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: iuaasconf.8.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: iuaasconf.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:30  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH IUAASCONF 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.SH NAME
.B iuaasconf
\- IUA-AS Driver Configuration Utility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBiuaasconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [{\fB-c\fR|\fB--command\fR}] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGUMENT\fR [\fI...\fR]]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBiuaasconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-f\fR|\fB--file\fR} [\fIFILENAME\fR]
.HP
\fBiuaasconf\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBiuaasconf\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBiuaasconf\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B iuasconf
is a configuration utility for the IUA-AS multiplexing driver,
.BR iua-as (4).
Its purpose is to open SCTP Streams, link them under the IUA-AS driver, and configure them using
IUA-AS driver input-output controls.
.PP
The
.B iuasconf
utility is intended to be run at system startup from a System V initialization script, or when
reconfiguration of the IUA-AS driver is necessary.  Once configuration of the IUA-AS multiplexing
driver is complete, application programs (DL-Users) can open, attach, enable and use Signalling Link
streams opened on the driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.SS "Command Options"
.PP
.TP
[{\fB-c\fR|\fB--command\fR}] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGUMENT\fR [\fI...\fR]]
This option processes the command,
.IR COMMAND .
The literal
.BR -c " or " --command
option can be ommitted and just the arguments listed.  (The
.BR -c " or " --command
option is implied.
.I COMMAND
can be one of the following:
.RS
.TP
.B add
Add the specified entry.
.TP
.B cha
Change the specified entry.
.TP
.B del
Delete the specified entry.
.RE
.TP
{\fB-f\fR|\fB--file\fR} [\fIFILENAME\fR]
.PP
The following command options are common to all OpenSS7 project command line utilities:
.TP
{\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR|\fB-H\fR|\fB-?\fR|\fB--?\fR}
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
{\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
{\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
When this option is encountered, print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.SS "Configuration Options"
.PP
.TP
{\fB-e\fR|\fB--device\fR} \fIDEVNAME\fR
Specifies the IUA-AS device name to be opened for linking and configuring IUA ASP-SG relations.  The
default device name is
.BR /dev/iua-as .
.TP
{\fB-s\fR|\fB--sctpdev\fR} \fIDEVNAME\fR
Specifies the SCTP device name to be opened for establishing SCTP association streams.  The default
device name is
.BR /dev/sctp_t .
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
When the
{\fB-f\fP|\fB--file\fP}\ \fIFILENAME\fP
option is specified, the supplied file contains IUA-AS configuration entries as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Each line in the file contains one entry or comment per line.
.IP \(bu
Each entry consists of a number of fields separated by whitespace.
.IP \(bu
Any field that begins with an octothorpe character,
.RB ` # ',
is a comment that continues to the end of the line.
.IP \(bu
Any line containing only a comment (beginning with optional whitespace followed by an octothorpe
character,
.RB ` # ')
is ignored.
.IP \(bu
Blank lines are ignored.
.PP
Each line containing an IUA-AS configuration entry consists of the following fields:
.PP
.RI < sgid >
.RI < aspid >
.RI < options >
.RI < local-endpoint >
.RI < remote-endpoint >
.PP
Where,
.TP
.I sgid
is an SG identifier that is an integer number identifying an ASP-SG relation (i.e. SCTP
association).
.TP
.I aspid
is an ASP Identifier that will be used in the ASP Up request to the SG.  If this field is specified
as zero
.RB ( 0 ),
or as a single dash,
.RB ( - ),
then no ASP Identifier will be used in the ASP Up request to the SG.
.TP
.I options
is a list of comma-separated SG options, with no embedded whitespace.  The following options are
defined:
.RS
.TP
.B dynamic
When included in the options, this keyword specifies that the SG requires dynamic configuration
(registration).  If this option is not included, the SG requires static configuration (no
registration).
.RE
.TP
.I local-endpoint
is the local endpoint address to which the SCTP association is bound to communicate with the remote
SG.  This can take the form:
{\fIhostname\fR|\fIipaddress\fR}[\fB,\fR{\fIhostname\fR|\fIipaddress\fR}][\fB:\fR{\fIport\fR|\fIservice\fR}].
The special hostname consisting of a single star,
.RB ( * ),
can be used to indicate a wildcard address.  When the wildcard address is used, only one
.IR hostname " or " ipaddress
can occur in the address.  If the
.IR port " or " service
is not specified, then a dynamic port number will be allocated.  If the
.I service
is specified as
.RB \(lq iua ,\(rq
then the IUA registered (well-known) port number will be used.
.TP
.I remote-endpoint
is the remote endpoint address to which the SCTP association is connected to communicate with the
remote SG.  This can take the form:
{\fIhostname\fR|\fIipaddress\fR}[\fB,\fR{\fIhostname\fR|\fIipaddress\fR}][\fB:\fR{\fIport\fR|\fIservice\fR}].
If the
.IR port " or " service
is not specified, the IUA registered (well-known) port number will be used.
.PP
The
.B iuaasconf
utility, reads this configuration file and performs the following steps for each entry in the file:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The
.B iuaasconf
utility opens an SCTP association by opening the
.B /dev/sctp_t
device, or the device specified with the
.B -s
option.
.IP 2.
The
.B iuaasconf
utility opens a stream on the IUA-AS driver using the
.B /dev/iua-as
device, or the device specified by the
.B -e
option, and links the SCTP stream under the IUA-AS multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
input-output control.
The
.B iuaasconf
utility can then close the file descriptor for the SCTP stream.
.IP 3.
The
.B iuaasconf
utility uses the
.B IUA_AS_IOCSCONFIG
input-output control to associated the lower multiplex SCTP stream with an ASP-SG relation.  The
input-output control takes the information provided in the configuration file line entry, and the
multiplexer identifier returned from the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
input-output control operation.  The IUA-AS driver, in response to the
.B IUA_AS_IOCSCONFIG
input-output control, completes the ASP-SG relation information as part of the lower multiplex stream
private structure.  The IUA-AS driver also binds and connects the SCTP association and attempts to
bring the ASP to the ASP Up state with the remote SG.
.IP 4.
Steps 1 through 3, above, are repeated for each entry in the configuration file.
.IP 5.
The utility can also open and attach signalling links streams and link them under the DL-MUX
multiplexing driver with a global PPA and CLEI.
.\"
.\"
.SH SIGNALS
.PP
.TP
.RI { SIGHUP }
This signal causes the
.B iuaasconf
utility to reread the configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1) indicates that an
error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message is printed on
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
options suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B iuaasconf
has not known bugs.
Report problems to
.RI < bugs@openss7.org >.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR iua-as (4),
.BR dl-mux (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B iuaasconf
is an OpenSS7-specific configuration command.  Because this command is used at startup and is
transparent to the DL-User opening DL streams, compatibility is not an issue.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Configuration is not subject to standardization.
The utility conforms to OpenSS7 project specifications, coding and options standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B isuasconf
configuration utility was first released in sigtran 0.9.2.2.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
