'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH IXETUNE 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Admin Commands"
.SH NAME
.B ixetune
\- tune the parameters of the IXE driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fB\)ixetune\fP\ 'u
\fB\)ixetune\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
[{\fB-f\fP|\fB--file\fP[=]}\fIfilename\fP]
[{\fB-d\fP|\fB--device\fP[=]}\fIdevice\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fB\)ixetune\fP {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fB\)ixetune\fP {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fB\)ixetune\fP {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B ixetune
adminstrative command tunes the IXE driver,
.BR ixe (4),
from a configuration file containing configuration information.
.PP
.B ixetune
configures the
.BR ixe (4)
driver.  The
.B ixetune
utility reads registration and configuration information from the file
.BR ixetuneconf (5)
and sends this information to the
.BR ixe (4)
driver.  It determines which called addresses an
.BR ixe (4)
driver is willing to receive connection indications on (listen information).
It also specifies the configuration for each IP network, as well as the
host's calling/responding address for this network.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--device\fP \fIdevice\fP
Specify a device for the information to be sent to.  The default is
\fB/dev/ixe\fP.
.TP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--link\fP \fIlink\fP
Specify the IP interface to tune.  If this option is not specified, all the
interfaces will be tuned.
.TP
\fB-D\fP, \fB--devconfig\fP \fIfilename\fP
Specify the pathname of the configuration file to use.  The default directory is
\fB@sysconfdir@/x25/\fP.  The filename used is the default,
\fBixetuneconf\fP.
.TP
\fB-f\fP, \fB--file\fP [\fIfilename\fP]
Specifies the \fIfilename\fP from which to read IXE tuning information.  See \*(lq\fIFILE
FORMAT\fP\*(rq, below, for the format of the file.  The default \fIfilename\fP if this option or
\fIfilename\fP is not specified is
.BR @configdir@/ixetuneconf .
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--device\fP [\fIdevicename\fP]
Specifies the \fIdevicename\fP to open to access the IXE driver,
.BR ixe (4),
to tune.  The default device name if this option or \fIdevicename\fP is not specified is
.BR /dev/ixe .
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Suppresses normal output.  This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 0 .
.TP
\fB-D\fP, \fB--debug\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Increase or specify the debug output
.IR level .
When a debug
.I level
has been specified,
.B ixetune
will log to
.IR stdout ,
print debug messages to
.IR stderr .
This option may be repeated.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Increase of specify the verbosity
.I level
of the output.  This option may be repeated.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered,
.B ixetune
displays usage information on
.I stdout
and exits.
No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no actions are taken.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered,
.B ixetune
displays version information on
.I stdout
and exits.
No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no actions are taken.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered,
.B ixetune
displays copying and copyright information on
.I stdout
and exits.
No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no actions are taken
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.B ixetune
does not accept any non-option arguments.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
The file has the following format:
.PP
.RB < in_addr >
.RB < x_addr >
.RB < nsdu_hwm >
.RB < idle_ticks >
.RB < durn_ticks >
.RB < conform84 >
.RB < addr_ddn >
.RB < rst_action >
.RB < exp_action >
.RB < lpc > - < hpc >
.RB < listen_info >
.PP
Where the fields are formatted as follows:
.TP
.RB < in_addr >
Specifies the Internet Protocol Version 4 address of the local virtual NIC.  This IPv4 address is
used by other machines on the network to identify this node.  This address should be in
numbers-and-dots notation or may contain a hostname that can be resolved to an IP address.
.TP
.RB < x_addr >
Specifies the X.25 address.  This is the local X.25 address for the local station.  The X.25 address
is formatted as follows:
.RS
.PP
\fIsn_id\fP\fB.\fP[\fIDTE\fP|\fILSAP\fP|\fILCI\fP]\fB.\fP[\fBN\fP|\fBX\fP|\fBP\fP]\fB.\fP[\fINSAP\fP|\fIEXT\fP]
.PP
Where the four fields of the address are as follows:
.TP
.I sn_id
Specifies the subnetwork identifier.  For most SpiderX.25 based implementations this is a single
alphabetical characeter where the first subnetwork is given the character `A', the second subnetwork
the character `B', and so on.  For
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
The first field is a link identifier.  The link identifier can be any number with a 32-bit unsigned
integer range.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
accepts both forms.
.TP
.IR DTE | LSAP | LCI
For a subnetwork connection that consists of a LAN (LLC2) interface, only the LSAP is permitted.
For a subnetwork that consists of a WAN (LAPB) interface, only the DTE or LCI or neither (no DTE or
LCI) is permitted.
.RS
.TP \w'\fILSAP\fP\(em'u
.I DTE
Specifies a DTE address.  This field can be 0 to 15 digits in length when TOA/NPI addressing is not
used and 2 to 17 digits in length when TOA/NPI addressing is used.  TOA/NPI addressing cannot be
used for X.25(80) networks.  This field is only interpreted as a DTE address when the subnetwork
type is WAN and the following field is not \*(lq\fBP\fP\*(rq.
.TP
.I LSAP
Specifies an LSAP which is always 14 hexadecimal digits in length, 12 hexadecimal digits for the MAC
address, and 2 hexadecimal digits for the SAP.  Hexadecimal digit pairs may optionally be separated
by colons (\*(lq\fB:\fP\*(rq).  This field is only intepreted as an LSAP address when the subnetwrok
type is LAN.
.TP
.I LCI
Specifies the LCI which is 0 to 4 decimal digits in the range from 0 to 4095.  This number
identifies the logical channel belonging to a PVC.  This field is only interpreted as an LCI when
the following field has the value \*(lq\fBP\fP\*(rq.
.RE
.TP
.BR N | X | P
When present, this field contains one alphabetical character,
\*(lq\fBN\fP\*(rq,
\*(lq\fBX\fP\*(rq, or
\*(lq\fBP\fP\*(rq,
that determines the form of the address.
.RS
.TP \w'\fBX\fP\(em'u
.B N
Specifies that the following field is an \fINSAP\fP.  This is the default.
This value can only be set for LAN or for X.25(84+) networks.
.TP
.B X
Specifies that the following field is an \fIEXT\fP.
This value can only be set for LAN or for X.25(84+) networks.
.TP
.B P
Specifies that the preceding field is an \fILCI\fP, and that there is no following field.
.PP
If this field is absent, and the following field is present, the following field is an \fINSAP\fP.
The intervening \*(lq.\&\*(rq is optional in this case.
.RE
.TP
.IR NSAP | EXT
This field provides the NSAP address or Address Extension. 
This field can only be present for LAN or for X.25(84+) networks.
.RS
.TP
.I NSAP
This is a maximum 20-byte NSAP address, represented by 0 to 40 hexadecimal digits.  A colon,
\*(lq\fB:\fP\*(rq, can optionally be placed between any pairs of hexadecimal digits.
This field is only interpreted as an NSAP when the preceding field is absent or contains the value
\*(lq\fBN\fP\*(rq.
.TP
.I EXT
This is a maximum 20-byte Address Extension, represented by 0 to 40 hexadecimal digits.  A colon,
\*(lq\fB:\fP\*(rq, can optionally be placed between any pairs of hexadecimal digits.
This field is only interpreted as an Address Extension when the preceding field contains the value
\*(lq\fBE\fP\*(rq.
.RE
.PP
The range of X.25 addresses is limited by the underlying subnetwork type.  For each subnetwork type,
possible X.25 addresses are as follows:
.TP
.B LAN
.nf
sn_id.LSAP
sn_id.LSAP.N.NSAP
sn_id.LSAP.X.EXT
.\"sn_id.LSAP.NSAP
.\"sn_id.LSAP..NSAP
.fi
.TP
.B WAN (1980)
.nf
sn_id
sn_id.DTE
sn_id.LCI.P
.fi
.TP
.B WAN (1984+)
.nf
sn_id
sn_id.DTE
sn_id.DTE.N.NSAP
sn_id.DTE.X.EXT
sn_id..N.NSAP
sn_id..X.EXT
.\"sn_id.DTE.NSAP
.\"sn_id.DTE..NSAP
sn_id.LCI.P
.fi
.RE
.TP
.RB < nsdu_hwm >
The NSDU High Water Mark.  This value is a decimal number, that specifies the maximum size, in
octets, of outgoing datagrams to IXE before fragmenting them, and of incoming X.25 packet sequences
(an NSDU) that X.25 may pass up to IXE as a single datagram.
.TP
.RB < idle_ticks >
The maximum idle time.  This value is a decimal number, that specifies the maximum period of time,
in seconds, that this connection may be idle before being closed.
.TP
.RB < durn_ticks >
The minimum connection time.  This value is a decimal number, that specified the minimum time, in
seconds, that a connection will be held open.
.TP
.RB < conform84 >
The X.25 Mode.  This value specifies whether to use X.25 1980, 1984 or 1988.  The values are the
character strings:
\*(lq\fB80\fP\*(rq,
\*(lq\fB84\fP\*(rq,
\*(lq\fB88\fP\*(rq, or
\*(lq\fB88+\fP\*(rq.
.TP
.RB < addr_ddn >
The ISO/ITU/DDN mode.  This mode determines whether to use the ISO/IEC 8208 or ITU-T X.25 standard
(value \*(lq\fB0\fP\*(rq), or DDN (value \*(lq\fB1\fP\*(rq).  In the DDN (Defense Data Network)
mode, DDN and BFE facilities are interpreted.  See also RFC 1236.
.[
rfc1236
.]
.TP
.RB < rst_action >
The Reset Action.  This field determines the action to take upon receiving a reset.  This action can
be either to acknowledge the reset (value \*(lq\fBACK\fP\*(rq), or
be to disconnect the VC (value \*(lq\fBDISC\fP\*(rq).
.TP
.RB < exp_action >
The Expedited Data Action.  This field determines the action to take upon receiving expedited data
(an X.25 Interrupt Packet).  This action may be to acknolwedge the expedited data but discard it
(value \*(lq\fBACK\fP\*(rq), to disconnect the virtual circuit (value \*(lq\fBDISC\fP\*(rq), or to
reset the virtual circuit (value \*(lq\fBRESET\fP\*(rq).
.TP
.RB < lpc > - < hpc >
The PVC Channel Range.  This field contains logical channel ranges that IXE will use a connections
over X.25 PVCs.  A number of channel ranges may be specifies for each subnetwork (provided the
ranges are mutually exclusive), and also for different subnetworks.  The format of this field is:
.RS
.PP
.RB < lpc > - < hpc >
.PP
Where
.I lpc
and
.I hpc
both consist of 3 hexadecimal digits.  The
.IR lpc ,
which represents the lowest PVC channel number of the range, must be less than or equal to
.IR hpc ,
which represents the highest PVC channel number of the range.
.PP
Alternatively, a single dash, \*(lq\fB-\fP\*(rq, may be specified for the range indicating that no
PVC channels are configured.
.RE
.TP
.RB < listen_info >
The Listen Information.  This field specifies the called addresses and call user data fields that
the IXE should be willing to receive connect indications for on this virtual network interface.  The
format of this field is as follows:
.RS
.PP
.nf
{\fIcud\fP\fB,\fP \fIcalled_address\fP \fB;\fP}
or
{<[(\fBI\fP|\fBS\fP) [\fIbytes\fP]] | \fBX\fP> , <[(\fBI\fP|\fBS\fP) (\fBD\fP|\fBN\fP) [\fIsemi-octets\fP]] | \fBX\fP> \fB;\fP}
.fi
.PP
Where \*(lq\fBI\fP\*(rq means \*(lqmatch this field exactly\*(rq, \*(lq\fBS\fP\*(rq means \*(lqmatch
this field staring with\*(rq, \*(lq\fBX\fP\*(rq means \*(lqdon't care about this field\*(rq.
\*(lq\fBD\fP\*(rq means \*(rqthis field refers to an X.25 DTE\*(lq,
\*(lq\fBN\fP\*(rq means \*(rqthis field refers to an X.25 NSAP/Extended address\*(lq.  The
semi-colon, \*(lq\fB;\fP\*(rq, at the end of each example means that multiples listens, each of the
same format, can be initiated.
.PP
Alternatively, a single dash, \*(lq\fB-\fP\*(rq, may be specified for the field indicating null
lisetn information.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SS EXAMPLES
.PP
Following is an example file:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
14.0.7.9    A  576  30  20  84  0  ACK  ACK  -        SCC,SD2342;
15.0.25.11  B  576  30  20  80  0  ACK  ACK  005-005  SCC,SD2342;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @configdir@/ixetuneconf
The default IXE tuning configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/ixe
The default IXE device driver to tune.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR X25 (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B ixetune
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B ixetune
is compatible with
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
and systems based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Options \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP, \fB-C\fP, and all long
options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B ixetune
and should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR -e ", " -n ", " -q ", " -v ", " -h ", " -V ", " -C ,
and all long options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.BR ixetune
and will not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP
and \fB-C\fP options.  They should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
Options \fB--help\fP and \fB--version\fP are provided for compatibility with
GNU coding standards; \fB--copying\fP, OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "SunLink X.25" ,
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B ixetune
first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
