'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: lltune.8.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: lltune.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:30  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH LLTUNE 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Admin Commands"
.SH NAME
.B lltune
\- tune LAPB and LLC2 parameters
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fB\)lltune\fP\ 'u
\fB\)lltune\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
{\fB-s\fP|\fB--subnet\fP}\ \fIsubnet\fP
{\fB-p\fP|\fB--protocol\fP}\ \fIprotocol\fP
[{\fB-G\fP|\fB--get\fP}]
[{\fB-d\fP|\fB--device\fP}\ \fIdevice\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fB\)lltune\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
{\fB-s\fP|\fB--subnet\fP}\ \fIsubnet\fP
{\fB-p\fP|\fB--protocol\fP}\ \fIprotocol\fP
{\fB-P\fP|\fB--put\fP}
[{\fB-d\fP|\fB--device\fP}\ \fIdevice\fP]
[\fIfilename\fP]
.HP
\fB\)lltune\fP
{\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fB\)lltune\fP
{\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fB\)lltune\fP
{\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B lltune
is a configuration command intended on being executed from system
configuration scripts, and, in particular, the
.BR x25netd (8)
configuration daemon.
Its purpose is to alter or interrogate the tunable parameters of an LLC2 or
LAPB data link connected to an identified subnetwork.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The
.B lltune
command accepts the following options:
.SS Command Options
.PP
The following command options are mutually exclusive (except for \fB-h\fP,
\fB-V\fP and \fB-C\fP which never cause an error when specified with another
command option).  If no command option is given, \fB-G\fP is assumed.
.TP
\fB-G\fP, \fB--get\fP
Retrieve configuration information for the specified \fIprotocol\fP and
\fIsubnet\fP, from the default or specified \fIdevice\fP, and write the output
to \fIstdout\fP (or \fIfilename\fP, when given).  This option can be used to
create a properly formatted configuration file from an existing system
configuration.
.TP
\fB-P\fP, \fB--put\fP
Load configuration information for the specified \fIprotocol\fP and
\fIsubnet\fP, to the default or specified \fIdevice\fP, getting the
confirmation input from \fIstdin\fP (or \fIfilename\fP, when given).  This
option can be used to tune current system configuration.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered, usage information is printed to \fIstdout\fP,
option processing stops, and the program exists successfully without taking
any further action.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered, version information is printed to
\fIstdout\fP, option processing stops, and the program exists successfully
without taking any further action.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered, copying permissions are printed to
\fIstdout\fP, option processing stops, and the program exists successfully
without taking any further action.
.\"
.SS Non-Command Options
.PP
The following non-command options can be combined together and with any
command option.  Non-command options that are not necessary for the specified
command option do not generate an error by mere combination.
.TP
\fB-e\fP, \fB--extended\fP
Normally \fBlltune\fP processes a fixed number of lines from \fIstdin\fP (or
\fIfilename\fP) when specified, and outputs a fixed number of lines to
\fIstdout\fP (or \fIfilename\fP) when specified.  This fixed number of lines are
strictly compatible with other implementations of \fBlltune\fP.
.RS
.PP
When the \fB-e\fP option is specified, additional lines are accepted on input
and are generated on output.  For the format of the fixed lines and the
additional lines, see
.BR llc2template (5)
and
.BR lapbtemplate (5).
.RE
.TP
\fB-s\fP, \fB--subnet\fP \fIsubnet\fP
Specifies the subnetwork identifier, \fIsubnet\fP, to which the tuning
operation applies.  \fIsubnet\fP is normally an alphabetical character starting
at \*(lq\fBA\fP\*(rq for the first subnetwork, \*(lq\fBB\fP\*(rq for the
second subnetwork, and so on.
This option must always be given when the \fB-P\fP or \fB-G\fP options are
present or assumed.
.TP
\fB-p\fP, \fB--protocol\fP \fIprotocol\fP
Specifies the \fIprotocol\fP associated with the subnetwork identifier.  The
\fIprotocol\fP may be one of the following tokens: \fBlapb\fP or \fBllc2\fP.
This option must always be given when the \fB-P\fP or \fB-G\fP options are
present or assumed.
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--device\fP \fIdevice\fP
Specifies the device to open when tuning.  When unspecified, for \fBlapb\fP
the default device is \fB/dev/lapb0\fP or \fB/dev/lapb\fP; for \fBllc2\fP the
default device is \fB/dev/llc20\fP or \fB/dev/llc2\fP.  See also
\*(lq\fIDEVICES\fP\*(rq, below.
.TP
\fB-n\fP, \fB--dryrun\fP
Execute the command (\fB-P\fP or \fB-G\fP) as a dry run.  When this option is
specified with the \fB-P\fP option, the input is read and checked for
validity, but the configuration is not written to the device  When specified
with the \fB-G\fP option, information is read from the device, but
configuration information is not output.  The exit status and diagnostic
output of the command still reflects the success or failure of the command.
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Suppresses normal output.  This is the same as
.BR "--verbose=0" .
.TP
\fB-D\fP, \fB--debug\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Increase or specify the debug verbosity \fIlevel\fP.  The default debug
\fIlevel\fP is zero (0).  This option may be repeated.  Level zero (0)
corresponds to no debugging output.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Increase or specify the output verbosity \fIlevel\fP.  The default output
\fIlevel\fP is one (1).  This option may be repeated.  Level zero (0)
corresponds to no normal output.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The following non-option arguments may be provided on the command line:
.TP
.I filename
Specifies the \fIfilename\fP from which to read (\fB-P\fP option) or write
(\fB-G\fP option) configuration information.
.RS
.PP
This argument is optional.  When the \fIfilename\fP is not given and the
\fB-P\fP option is specified, the values are read from \fIstdin\fP;
for the \fB-G\fP option, values are written to \fIstdout\fP.
.PP
If the \fIfilename\fP is an absolute path (i.e. begins with
\*(lq\fB/\fP\*(rq), then \fIfilename\fP is assumed to be the exact path
specified.  Otherwise, the file required is assumed to be
\fB@configdir@/@PACKAGE@/template/\fP\fIfilename\fP.
See
.BR lapbtemplate (5)
and
.BR llc2template (5)
for the format of the file.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of normal output to
.I stdout
and diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH FILE FORMAT
.PP
For the input file format, see
.BR lapbtemplate (5)
and
.BR llc2template (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
On input, this implementation will handle fields that are separated by any
whitespace (any number of blanks, horizontal tabs, new lines, carriage returns,
vertical tabs, form feeds).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.BI @configdir@/@PACKAGE@/template/ filename
The default directory location for configuration files used by this command.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/streams/lapb ", " /dev/lapb
The Style 2 DLPI device for LAPB,
.BR lapb (4).
.TP
.BR /dev/streams/llc2 ", " /dev/llc2
The Style 2 DLPI device for LLC2,
.BR llc2 (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR lapbtemplate (5),
.BR llc2template (5),
.BR llc2 (4),
.BR lapb (4),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B lltune
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B lltune
is compatible with
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
and systems based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
A version of this command is provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for compatibility with systems that require it.  Neither this command nor the
.BR x25netd (8)
are recommended for configuration of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
subsystems.  Use the SNMP agent instead.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR -e ", " -n ", " -q ", " -v ", " -h ", " -V ", " -C ,
and all long options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.BR lltune
and will not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents printing the output to a file when a
.I filename
is specified with the
.B -G
command option.  This is an enhancement of this implementation.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the
.BR -e ", " -n ", " -q ", " -v ", " -h ", " -V " and " -C
options.  They will not be used by portable command scripts. 
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards (GNITS);
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.IP \(em
.B lltune
attempts to be source (and script) compatible with historical implementations
based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
however, binary compatibility is not attempted.  Any binary compatability
acheived is likely to be removed in a subsequent release.
.PP
For additional compatibility considerations, see
.BR lapb (4),
.BR llc2 (4),
.BR lapbtemplate (5),
.BR llc2template (5),
and
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "SunLink X.25" ,
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B lltune
first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
