'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man8/lsdev.8.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH LSDEV 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B lsdev
\- list device drivers in the system
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fBlsdev\fP\ 'u
\fBlsdev\fP [\fB-h\fP]
[\fB-d\fP\0\fIdriver\fP|\fB-C\fP\0\fIclass\fP]
[\fB-b\fP\0\fIblock_major\fP]
[\fB-c\fP\0\fIchar_major\fP]
[\fB-e\fP\0\fImajor\fP]
[\fImajor\fP\0\fI...\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBlsdev\fR {\fB-H\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBlsdev\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBlsdev\fR \fB--copying\fR
.PD
.ad b
.hy 1
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B lsdev
command lists, one pair per line, the major device numbers and driver names
of device drivers configured into the system and available for invocation via
special files.  A
.B -1
in either the block or character column means that a major number does not
exist for that type.
.PP
When no arguments are specified,
.B lsdev
lists all drivers configured into the system.
.PP
When the
.B -h
option is specified,
.B lsdev
will not print a heading.  This option may be useful when the output of
.B lsdev
will be used by another program.
.PP
The
.BR -d ", " -C ", " -b ", " -c ", and " -e
options are used to select specific device drivers for output.  When more
than one option is specified, all drivers that match the criteria specified
by those options will be listed.
These search options are divided into two types: name search keys (the
.BR -d " and " -C
options) and major number search keys (the
.BR -b ", " -c ", and " -e
options).  When both types of options are present, only entries that match
both types are printed.  The same type of option may appear more than once on
the command line with each occurrence providing an ORing effect of that
search type.  The
.BR -d " and " -C
options may not be specified at the same time.
.PP
The ability to process major arguments is provided for compatibility and
functions like the
.B -e
option.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The
.B lsdev
command recognizes the following options:
.TP
.BR -C ", " --class " \fI\)class\fP
List device drivers that match class.
.TP
.BR -d ", " --driver " \fI\)driver\fP
List device drivers with the name,
.IR driver .
.TP
.BR -b ", " --block " \fI\)block_major\fP
List device drivers with a block major device number of
.IR block_major .
.TP
.BR -c ", " --char " \fI\)char_major\fP
List device drivers with a character major device number of
.IR char_major .
.TP
.BR -e ", " --either " \fI\)major\fP
List device drivers with either a character major device number or block
major device number equal to
.IR major .
.TP
.BR -H ", " --help
When this option is encountered,
.B lsdev
displays usage information on
.I stdout
and exits.  No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no
actions are taken.
.TP
.BR -V ", " --version
When this option is encountered,
.B lsdev
displays version information on
.I stdout
and exits.  No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no
actions are taken.
.TP
.B --copying
When this option is encountered,
.B lsdev
displays copying and copyright information on
.I stdout
and exits.  No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no
actions are taken.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The
.B lsdev
command recognizes the following non-option arguments:
.TP
.I major ...
List device drivers with either a character major device number or block
major device number equal to
.IR major .
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
.B lsdev
exits with one of the following values:
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion, including warning diagnostics.
.TP
.B 1
Failure.  An error occurred.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.SS Errors
.TP
Invalid combination of options
The
.BR -d " and " -C
options may not be specified at the same time.
.TP
Invalid major number
A major number is malformed or out of range.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B lsdev
is compatible only with
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
devices.
The command will not function with regular
.B Linux
devices.
.PP
Some device drivers available from the system may be intended for use by
other drivers.  Attempting to use them directly from a special file may
produce unexpected results.
.PP
A driver may be listed even when the hardware requiring the driver is not
present.  Attempts to access a driver without the corresponding hardware will
fail.
.PP
.B lsdev
only lists drivers that are configured into the currently executing kernel.
.\"For a complete list of available drivers, please run
.\".BR sam (8).
.PP
Since
.B lsdev
relies on the device driver information provided in a
.I driver_install
routine,
.B lsdev
may not list drivers installed by other means.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To output entries for all drivers in the
.I pseudo
class:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
lsdev -C pseudo
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
To output entries that are in the class
.I disk
that have either a block or character major number of 0:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
lsdev -C disk -e 0
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
To get the character major number of
.I my_driver
into a shell environment variable:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
C_MAJOR=$(lsdev -h -d my_driver | awk '{print $1}')
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /sbin/lsdev
contains the
.B lsdev
command.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\".PP
.\".BR sam (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B lsdev
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B lsdev
command is provided for compatibility with the
.IR HP-UX \(rg
command of the same name,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B lsdev
is provided only for compatibility with
.IR HP-UX \(rg
for
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
devices.
The command will not function with regular
.B Linux
devices.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR -H " and " -V ,
all long options, are specific to this
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B lsdev
and should not be used by portable applications.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the
.BR -H " or " -V
options.  They should not be used by portable applications.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR HP-UX \(rg
documentation.
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B lsdev
was developed by HP.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
