'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man8/lssf.8.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH LSSF 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B lssf
\- list a special file
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fBlssf\fP\ 'u
\fBlssf\fP \fIspecial_file\fP\0\fI...\fP
.PD 0
.HP
\fBlssf\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBlssf\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBlssf\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 1
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B lssf
lists information about a special file.  For each special file,
.IR special_file ,
name,
.B lssf
determines the major number of the special file and whether it is a block or
character device (using
.BR stat (2)).
It then scans the system for the device that is associated with the special
file.  When the device is found, the minor number of the special file is
decoded.  A mnemonic description of the minor number is printed on standard
output along with the hardware path (i.e., address) of the device.  Mnemonics
used to describe the fields are closely related to the options used with
.BR mksf (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The
.B lssf
command recognizes the following options:
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
When this option is encountered,
.B lssf
displays usage information on
.I stdout
and exits.  No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no
actions are taken.
.TP
.BR -V ", " --version
When this option is encountered,
.B lssf
displays version information on
.I stdout
and exits.  No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no
actions are taken.
.TP
.BR -C ", " --copying
When this option is encountered,
.B lssf
displays copying and copyright information on
.I stdout
and exits.  No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no
actions are taken.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The
.B lssf
command accepts the following non-option arguments:
.TP
.I special_file ...
The path to the special file(s) about which to list information.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
.B lssf
exits with one of the following values:
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion, including warning diagnostics.
.TP
.B 1
Failure.  An error occurred.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Most diagnostic messages from
.B lssf
are self-explanatory.  Listed below are some messages deserving further
clarification.  Warnings allow
.B lssf
to continue.
.\"
.SS Warnings
.TP
No such device in the system
There is no information about the device in the kernel.  The special file is
not usable.  Use
.BR rmsf (8)
to remove the special file.
.TP
Character major <major> is not in the kernel.
.PD 0
.TP
Block major <major> is not in the kernel.
.PD
The major number associated with the special file is not in the kernel.  Use
.BR config (8)
to add the appropriate driver to the kernel.
.TP
Device driver <name> is not in the kernel
.PD 0
.TP
Device class <name> is not in the kernel
.PD
The indicated device driver or device class is not present in the kernel.  An
.BR open (2s)
of a special file pointing to an unusable device fails.  To make the device
usable, the appropriate device driver or device class must be added to the
configuration input file and a new kernel generated (see
.BR config (8)).
When the device is no longer needed,
.BR rmsf (8)
should be used to remove the special files and update
.BR /etc/ioconfig .
.TP
<special_file> is not a special file
The file is not associated with an I/O device.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B lssf
is compatible only with
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
devices.
The command will not function with regular
.B Linux
devices.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Suppose a special file is created with the command
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
mksf -d tape2 -H 8.6.1 -b 1600 -a rmt/c2t6d0m
\s+1\fP
.fi
.sp
The command
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
lssf rmt/c2t6d0m
\s+1\fP
.fi
.sp
then produces:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
tape2 instance 2 bpi 1600 att address 8.6.1 rmt/c2t6d0m
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /sbin/lssf
contains the
.B lssf
command.
.TP
.B /dev/config
I/O system special file
.TP
.B /etc/ioconfig
I/O system configuration database
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR config (8),
.BR insf (8),
.BR mksf (8),
.BR rmsf (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B lssf
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B lssf
command is provided for compatibility with the
.IR HP-UX \(rg
command of the same name,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B lssf
is provided only for compatibility with
.IR HP-UX \(rg
for
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
devices.
The command will not function with regular
.B Linux
devices.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR -h ", " -V " and " -C ,
all long options, are specific to this
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B lssf
and should not be used by portable applications.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the
.BR -h ", " -V " or -C
options.  They should not be used by portable applications.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR HP-UX \(rg
documentation.
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B lssf
was developed by HP.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
