'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man8/m2paconfig.8.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M2PACONFIG 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.SH NAME
.B m2paconfig
\- Interactive M2PA Configuration Utility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
\fBm2paconfig\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP]
.HP
\fBm2paconfig\fP {\fB-h\fP,\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fBm2paconfig\fP {\fB-V\fP,\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fBm2paconfig\fP {\fB-C\fP,\fB--copying\fP}
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B m2paconfig
is a configuration utility for the M2PA-SL module,
.BR m2pa_sl (4),
and the SL-MUX multiplexing driver,
.BR sl-mux (4).
Its purpose is to form Signalling Link streams using the M2PA-SL module, connect the M2PA link,
configure the link, and link the SL stream under the SL-MUX multiplexing driver, configure the lower
SL stream, and then wait in the background watching for updates to the configuration file and apply
updates as they occur.
.PP
The
.B m2paconfig
utility is intended to be run at system startup from a System V initializatoin script.  Once the configuration
of the M2PA-SL and SL-MUX driver is complete, applications programs can open, attach, enable and use
Signalling Link streams opened on the driver.
.PP
The purpose of the SL-MUX driver is to provide a unified interface for accessing signalling links of
a number of forms and from a number of various drivers.  Signalling links could correspond to a
device driver, or could be M2UA signalling links, M2PA signalling links or other implementations.
Each type of signalling link requires some additional configuration before they can be used and will
be linked under the SL-MUX by a separate configuration utility.  The
.B m2paconfig
utility is the utility used for the M2PA-SL module.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
.RB {  -i | --interactive }
Specifies that commands are to be provided interactively from a user at a terminal.  Prompts and
disagnostic messages will be printed between commands to prompt for user input.
.TP
.RB {  -q | --quiet }
Specifies that commands are to be read from standard input in a non-interactive fashion.  Prompts
and diagnostic messages will not be printed between commands and there will be no prompt for user
input.
.TP
.RB {  -v | --verbose =[\fILEVEL\fP]}
Specifies or increments the output verbosity \fILEVEL\fP.  When no \fILEVEL\fP is specified, simply
increments the current level.  This option can be specified multiple times (e.g\&. \fB-vvvv\fP).
.TP
.RB {  -d | --debug }
Specifies that yacc/bison debugging information should be displayed.  This is only really useful in
combination with the \fB-i\fP flag.
.TP
.RB { -h | --help | -? | --? }
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
.RB { -V | --version }
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
.RB { -C | --copying }
When this option is encountered, print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH "FILE FORMAT"
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SIGNALS
.PP
.TP
.RI { SIGHUP }
This signal causes the
.B m2paconf
utility to reread the configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1) indicates that an
error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message is printed on
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
options suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B m2paconfig
has no known bugs.
Report problems to
.RI < bugs@openss7.org >.
See
.BR send-pr (1).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR m2pa (4),
.BR sl-mux (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B m2paconfig
is an OpenSS7-specific configuration command.  Because this command is used interactively and is
transparent to the SL-User opening SL Streams, compatibility is not an issue.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Configuration is not subject to standardization.
The utility conforms to OpenSS7 project specifications, coding and options standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B m2paconfig
configuration utility was first released in sigtran 0.9.2.4.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 SIGTRAN stack.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
