'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man8/mksf.8.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MKSF 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mksf
\- make a special (device) file
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fBmksf\fR\ 'u
\fBmksf\fP
[\fB-C\fP\0\fIclass\fP|\fB-d\fP\0\fIdriver\fP]
[\fB-D\fP\0\fIdirectory\fP]
[\fB-H\fP\0\fIhw_path\fP]
[\fB-I\fP\0\fIinstance\fP]
[\fB-q\fP|\fB-v\fP]
[\fIdriver_options\fP]
[\fIspecial_file\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBmksf\fP
[\fB-C\fP\0\fIclass\fP|\fB-d\fP\0\fIdriver\fP]
[\fB-D\fP\0\fIdirectory\fP]
[\fB-H\fP\0\fIhw_path\fP]
\fB-m\fP\0\fIminor\fP
[\fB-q\fP|\fB-v\fP]
[\fB-r\fP]
\fIspecial_file\fP
.HP
\fBmksf\fP {\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fBmksf\fP {\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fBmksf\fP {\fB-c\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 1
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B mksf
command makes a special file in the devices directory, normally
.BR /dev ,
for an existing device, a device that has already been assigned an instance
number by the system.  The device is specified by supplying some combinations
of the
.BR -C ", " -d ", " -H ", and " -I
options.  When the options specified match a unique device in the system,
.B mksf
creates a special file for that devices; otherwise,
.B mksf
prints an error message and exits.  When required,
.B mksf
creates any subdirectories relative to the device installation directory
that are defined for the resulting special file.
.PP
For most drivers,
.B mksf
has a set of built-in driver options,
.IR driver_options ,
and special file,
.IR special_file ,
naming conventions.  By supplying some subset of the driver options, as in
the first form above, the user can create a special file with a particular
set of characteristics.  When a special file name,
.IR special_file ,
is specified,
.B mksf
creates the special file with that special file name; otherwise, the default
naming convention for the driver is used.
.PP
In the second form, the minor number,
.IR minor ,
and special file name,
.IR special_file ,
are explicitly specified.  This form is used to make a special file for a
driver without using the built-in driver options in
.BR mksf .
The
.B -r
option specifies that
.B mksf
should make a character (raw) device file instead of the default block device
file for drivers that support both.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The
.B mksf
command recognizes the following options:
.TP
.BR -C ", " --class " \fI\)class\fP
Match a device that belongs to a given device class,
.IR class .
Device classes can be listed with the
.B lsdev (8)
command.  They are defined in the files in the directory
.BR /usr/conf/master.d .
This option is not valid for pseudo devices.  This option cannot be used with
.BR -d .
.TP
.BR -d ", " --driver " \fI\)driver\fP
Match a device that is controlled by the specified device driver,
.IR driver .
Device drivers can be listed with the
.BR lsdev (8)
command.
They are defined in the files in directory
.BR /usr/conf/master.d .
This option cannot be used with
.BR -C .
.TP
.BR -D ", " --directory " \fI\)directory\fP
Override the default device installation directory,
.BR /dev ,
and install the special files in the directory,
.IR directory ,
instead.  The directory,
.IR directory ,
must exist; otherwise,
.B mksf
displays an error message and exits.  See
.RI \(lq WARNINGS \(rq.
.TP
.BR -H ", " --hwpath " \fI\)hw_path\fP
Match a device at a given hardware path,
.IR hw_path .
Hardware paths can be listed with the
.BR ioscan (8)
command.  A hardware path specifies the addresses of the hardware components
leading to a device.  It consists of a string of numbers separated by periods
.RB ( . ),
such as 52 (a card), 52.3 (a target address), and 52.3.0 (a device).  If a
hardware component is a bus converter, the following period, if any, is
replaced by a slash
.RB ( / )
as in 2, 2/3, and 2/3.0.  This option is not valid for pseudo devices.
.TP
.BR -I ", " --instance " \fI\)instance\fP
Match a device with the specified instance number.  Instances can be listed
with the
.B -f
option of the
.BR ioscan (8)
command.  This option is not valid for pseudo devices.
.TP
.BR -m ", " --minor " \fI\)minor\fP
Create the special file with the specified minor device number,
.IR minor .
The format of
.I minor
is the same as that given in
.BR mknod (1).
.TP
.BR -q ", " --quiet
Quiet option.  Normally,
.B mksf
displays a message as each driver is processed.  This option suppresses the
driver message, but not error messages.  See the
.B -v
option.
.TP
.BR -r ", " --raw
Create a character (raw) special file instead of a block special file.
.TP
.BR -v ", " --verbose
Verbose option.  In addition to the normal processing message, display the
name of each special file as it is created.  See the
.B -q
option.
.\"
.SS Naming Conventions
.PP
Many special files are named using the
.BI c card t target d device
naming convention.  These variables have the following meaning whenever they
are used:
.TP
.I card
The unique interface card identifier number from
.BR ioscan (8).
It is represented as a decimal number with a typical range of 0 to 255.
.TP
.I target
The device target number, for example, the address on a HP-FL or SCSI bus.
It is represented as a decimal number with a typical range of 0 to 15.
.TP
.I device
An address unit within a device, for example, the unit in a HP-FL device or
the LUN in a SCSI device.  It is represented as a decimal number with a
typical range of 0 to 15.
.\"
.SS Special Files
.PP
The driver-specific options
.RI ( driver_options )
and default special file names
.RI ( special_file )
are listed below:
.TP
.B asio0
.RS
.TP
.BI -a " access_mode
Port access mode (0-2).  The default access mode is 0 (Direct connect). The
.I access_mode
meanings are:
.RS
.TS
box tab(:);
lb|lb
n|l.
Port:Operation
_
0:Direct connect
1:Dial out modem
2:Dial in modem
.TE
.RE
.TP
.B -c
CCITT.
.TP
.B -f
Hardware flow control (RTS/CTS).
.TP
.B -i
Modem dialer.  Cannot be used with
.BR -l .
.TP
.B -l
Line printer.  Cannot be used with
.BR -i .
.TP
.B -p \fI\)port\fP
Multiplexer port number (0 for built-in serial port; 0-1 for SAS console
ports).  The default port number is 0.
.TP
.B -r \fI\)fifo_trigger\fP
.I fifo_trigger
should have a value between 0 and 3.  The following table shows the
corresponding FIFO trigger level for a given \fI\)fifo_trigger\fP value.
.RS
.TS
box tab(:);
li|lb
n|n.
fifo_trigger:Receive FIFO Trigger Level
_
0:1
1:4
2:8
3:14
.TE
.sp
.RE
.TP
.B -t
Transport mode (normally used by diagnostics).
.TP
.B -x \fI\)xmit_limit\fP
.I xmit_limit
should have a value between 0 and 3.  The following table shows the
corresponding transmit limit for a given
.I xmit_limit
value.
.RS
.TS
box tab(:);
li|lb
n|n.
xmit_limit:Transmit Limit
_
0:1
1:4
2:8
3:12
.TE
.sp
.RE
.TP
.I special_file
The default special file name depends on the
.I access_mode
and whether the
.B -i " and " -l
options are used.
.RS
.TS
box tab(:);
li|lb|lb|lb
n|c|c|l.
access_mode:-i:-l:Special File Name
_
\(em:no:yes:\fBc\fIcard\fBp0_lp\fR
2:no:no:\fBttyd\fIcard\fBp0\fR
1:no:no:\fBcul\fIcard\fBp0\fR
0:yes:no:\fBcua\fIcard\fBp0\fR
0:no:no:\fBtty\fIcard\fBp0\fR
.TE
.sp
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B audio
.RS
.TP
.B -f \fIformat\fP
Audio format (0-3).  The format meanings are:
.RS
.TS
box tab(:);
li|lb|li
n|l|c.
format:Audio Format:format-mod
_
0:No change in audio format:
1:8-bit Mu-law:U
2:8-bit A-law:A
3:16-bit linear:L
.TE
.sp
.RE
.TP
.B -o \fIoutput_dest\fP
Output destination (0-4).  The
.I output_dest
should have a value between 0 and 4.  The following table shows the
corresponding output destinations for a given
.I output_dest
value:
.RS
.TS
box tab(:);
li|lb|li
n|l|c.
output_dest:Output Destinations:output-mod
_
0:All outputs:B
1:Headphone:E
2:Internal Speaker:I
3:No output:N
4:Line output:L
.TE
.sp
.RE
.TP
.B -r
Raw, control access.  This option cannot be used with either the
.BR -f " or " -o
options.
.TP
.I special_file
The default special file name depends on the options specified.
.RS
.TS
box tab(:);
lb:lb
l:l.
Options:Special File Name
_
\fB-r\fP:\fBaudioCtl_\fIcard\fR
\fB-f\fP 0:\fBaudio_\fIcard\fR
all others:\fBaudio\fI<output-mod><format-mod>\fR_\fIcard\fR
.TE
.PP
The optional
.I output-mod
and
.I format-mod
values are given in the tables above.  Note the underscore
.RB ( _ )
before
.I card
in each special file name.  Also note that for
.IR "card 0" ,
each file will be linked to a simply name without the trailing
\fB_\fIcard\fR.
.RE
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
.B mksf
exits with one of the following values:
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B 1
Failure.  An error occurred.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Most of the diagnostic messages from
.B mksf
are self-explanatory.  Listed below are some messages deserving further
clarification.  Errors cause
.B mksf
to abort immediately.
.\"
.SS Errors
.PP
.TP
Ambiguous device specification
Matched more than one device in the system.  Use some combinations of the
.BR -d ", " -C ", " -H ", and " -I
options to specify a unique device.
.TP
No such device in the system
No device in the system matched the options specified.  use
.BR ioscan (8)
to list the devices int the system.
.TP
Device driver name is not in the kernel
.PD 0
.TP
Device class name is not in the kernel
.PD
The indicated device driver or device class is not present in the kernel.
Add the appropriate device driver and/or device class to the config input
file and generate a new kernel (see
.BR config (8)).
.TP
Device has no instance number
The specified device has not been assigned an instance number.  Use
.BR ioscan (8)
to assign an instance to the device.
.TP
Directory \fIdirectory\fP doesn't exist
The directory argument of the
.B -D
option doesn't exist.  Use
.B mkdir (1)
to create the directory.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B mksf
is compatible only with
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
devices.
The command will not function with regular
.B Linux
devices.
.PP
Many commands and subsystems assume their device files are in the
.B /dev
directory; therefore, the use of the
.B -D
option is discouraged.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Make a special file named
.B /dev/printer
for the line printer device associated with instance number 2.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s+1\
mksf -C print -I 2 /dev/printer
\s-1\fP
.fi
.PP
Make a special file, using the default naming convention, for the tape device
at hardware path 8.4.1.  The driver-specific options specify 1600 bits per
inch and no rewind on close.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s+1\
mksf -C tape -H 8.4.1 -b D1600 -n
\s-1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/config
I/O system special file
.TP
.B /dev/mtconfig
Tape driver property table database
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mkdir (1),
.BR config (8),
.BR insf (8),
.BR ioscan (8),
.BR lsdev (8),
.BR mknod (1),
.BR rmsf (8),
.BR mknod (2),
.BR ioconfig (4).
.BR mt (1).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B mksf
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B mksf
command is provided for compatibility with the
.IR HP-UX \(rg
command of the same name,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B mksf
is provided only for compatibility with
.IR HP-UX \(rg
for
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
devices.
The command will not function with regular
.B Linux
devices.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR -h ", " -V " and " -c ,
all long options, are specific to this
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B mksf
and should not be used by portable applications.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the
.BR -h ", " -V " or -c
options.  They should not be used by portable applications.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR HP-UX \(rg
documentation.
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B mksf
was developed by HP.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
