'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH OPENSS7 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B openss7, openss7.sh
\- System V Init Script for the \fIOpenSS7\fP package.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBservice\fP \fBopenss7\fB
[\fIcommand\fP]
# RedHat/Mandriva distribution
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBrc\fRopenss7\fP
[\fIcommand\fP]
# SuSE distribution
.HP 12
\fB/etc/init.d/\fP\fRopenss7\fP
[\fIcommand\fP]
# Ubuntu distribution
.HP 12
\fB/etc/init.d/\\fPfRopenss7.sh\fP
[\fIcommand\fP]
# Debian distribution
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B openss7
System V Init Script starts, stop, restarts and displays the status of the
.IR STREAMS (9)
Special Shadow Filesystem.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The
.I command
argument can be one of the following:
.TP
(none)
When executed without arguments, the
.B openss7
init script will display a short usage summary and exit.
.TP
.B start
Start the
.IR STREAMS (9)
Special Shadow Filesystem.
The filesystem is mounted if
.B OPENSS7_MOUNT
is set to
.IR yes .
All
.I STREAMS Special Shadow Filesystem
kernel modules in the base package are loaded with
.BR "modprobe" ,
and a lock file is created to indicate that the filesystem has been started.
.TP
.B stop
Stop the
.IR STREAMS (9)
Special Shadow Filesystem.
The filesystem is unmount if
.B OPENSS7_MOUNT
is set to
.IR yes .
Any
.I STREAMS Special Shadow Filesystem
kernel modules that are loaded (that is the
.BR openss7 (5)
kernel module), will be removed with
.BR "modprobe -r" .
If devices do not exist and there are no
.I STREAM Special Shadow Filesystem
kernel modules loaded,
.B stop
performs effectively no action.
.TP
.B force-reload
Perform a forced reload of configuration information for the
.IR STREAMS (9)
Special Shadow Filesystem.
This has the same effect as a
.B reload
except that the lock file is forcibly removed.
.PP
The Debian-style
.B openss7.sh
script also recognizes the following commands:
.TP
.B show
Report on the status of the
.IR STREAMS (9)
Special Shadow Filesystem.
.PP
The RedHat-style
.B openss7
script also recognizes the following commands:
.TP
.B status
Report on the status of the
.IR STREAMS (9)
Special Shadow Filesystem.
.TP
.B restart
Restart the
.IR STREAMS (9)
Special Shadow Filesystem.
.TP
.B try-restart
Try to restart the
.IR STREAMS (9)
Special Shadow Filesystem.
This has the same effect as a
.B reload
except that the lock file is forcibly removed.
.TP
.B condrestart
Perform a conditional restart of
.IR STREAMS (9)
Special Shadow Filesystem.
This is the same as a start if the filesystem is not already running.
This also has the same effect as a
.B reload
except that the lock file is forcibly removed.
.TP
.B reload
Perform a reload of configuration information for the
.IR STREAMS (9)
Special Shadow Filesystem.  This has the same effect as a
.BR restart .
.TP
.B probe
Probe the
.IR STREAMS (9)
Special Shadow Filesystem.  Probing consists of determining the status of the lock file and
configuration files and performing the actions necessary to move the
.IR STREAMS (9)
filesystem to an operational state.  This could be effectively the same as a
.BR start ", " reload " or " restart
depending on the current status of the lock files, configuration files, and
filesystem.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Normally the
.B openss7
or
.B openss7
init script is invoked by the
.BR init (8)
process.
Nevertheless, the script can be invoked by the adminstrator in the usual ways:
.\"
.SS RedHat-Style Systems
.PP
When the init script is installed, it is made known to the
.BR service (8)
command.  The
.BR service (8)
command can be used to invoke the script by name with the same command
arguments as the script itself, at the shell command prompt, as follows:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
$> service openss7 [command]
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.SS SuSE Systems
.PP
When the init script is installed,
.BR inserv (8)
will also create the rc script named
.B rcopenss7
in the
.B /usr/sbin
directory.  This script can be invoked by the adminstrator with the same
command arguments as the
.B openss7
script itself, at the shell command prompt, as follows:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
$> rcopenss7 [command]
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.SS Debian-Style Systems
.PP
When the init script is installed, it is made available in the
.B /etc/init.d
directory and can be invoked directly with the same command arguments, at the
shell command prompt, as follows:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
$> /etc/init.d/openss7.sh [command]
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.SS Other Systems
.PP
On other System V Init Script compatible systems, the init script is installed
in the
.B /etc/init.d
directory and can be invoked directly, with the same command arguments, at the
shell command prompt, as follows:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
$> /etc/init.d/openss7 [command]
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.PP
The following shell variables can be overridden in a configuration file or via
the environment:
.TP
.B OPENSS7_MOUNTPOINT
When set to a directory path, the init script will mount the
.BR openss7 (5)
filesystem on the specified mount point.  If the mount point does not exist,
but can be created as a directory, the mount point will be created before
mounting the filesystem.
.IP ""
When not set, the
.BR openss7 (5)
filesystem will not be mounted.
.TP
.B OPENSS7_UID
Specifies the user id to use for mounting the
.BR openss7 (5)
filesystem.  If not specified, the user id will default to the user id of the
process running the script and performing the
.BR mount (8).
.TP
.B OPENSS7_GID
Specifies the group id to use for mounting the
.BR openss7 (5)
filesystem.  If not specified, the group id will default to the group id of
the process running the script and performing the
.BR mount (8).
.TP
.B OPENSS7_MODE
Specifies the mode of the mounted
.BR openss7 (5)
filesystem.  If not specified, the mode will default to the umask of the
process running the script and performing the
.BR mount (8).
.TP
.B OPENSS7_OPTIONS
Specifies additional options to the mount.  See
.BR mount (8)
and
.BR openss7 (5)
for more information.
.PP
The Debian-style
.B streams.sh
script also recognizes the following additional evironment variables:
.TP
.B VERBOSE
When set to other than zero (0), diagnostic messages printed by commands executed
by the script will be printed to standard output.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
The
.B openss7
and
.B openss7.sh
scripts display success or failure on standard output in the normal manner of
System V Init Scripts for the distribution upon which they are loaded.
Diagnostic messages associated with the failure of the script or any command
in the script are printed on standard error (however, standard error may be
redirected by the invoking script).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To probe the filesystem and move the
.I STREAMS (9)
Special Shadow Filesystem smoothly to an operational state, execute the following (as root) at
the shell command prompt:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
$> service openss7 probe
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
When mounted, typically on the
.B /dev/streams
mount point, device nodes corresponding to
.IR STREAMS (9)
drivers will appear in the Special Shadow Filesystem beneath the
.B /dev/streams
directory.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/rc.d/init.d/openss7
Installed location of the init script on RedHat-style systems.
.TP
.B /etc/init.d/openss7.sh
Installed location of the init script on Debian-style systems and accessible
location of the init script on all systems.
.TP
.B /etc/sysconfig/openss7
The configuration file for the
.B openss7
startup script is located in the
.B /etc/sysconfig/openss7
file (for RedHat-style System V Init Script configurations).
.TP
.B /etc/default/openss7
The configuration file for the
.B openss7.sh
startup script is located in the
.B /etc/default/openss7
file (for Debian-style System V Init Script configurations).
.TP
.B /etc/sysctl.conf
Contains general system wide system controls.
This file has the format described in
.BR sysctl.conf (5).
.I STREAMS
Special Shadow Filesystem system controls can either be placed in this global file or in the
specific file below.
.TP
.B /etc/openss7.conf
Contains
.I STREAMS
Special Shadow Filesystem specific system controls.
This file has the format described in
.BR sysctl.conf (5).
.I STREAMS
Special Shadow Filesystem system controls can either be placed in this specific file or in the
global file above.
.TP
.B /var/lock/subsys/openss7
The subsystem lock file for the
.I STREAMS
subsystem on RedHat-style systems.  This file normally exists when the
Special Shadow Filesystem is initialized and locked.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR specfs (5),
.BR sysctl (8),
.BR service (8),
.BR rc (8),
.BR insmod (8),
.BR rmmod (8),
.BR modprobe (8),
.BR inserv (8),
.BR ckconfig (8),
.BR install_initd (8),
.BR remove_initd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B openss7
and
.BR openss7.sh
have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B openss7
and
.B openss7.sh
init scripts are compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Although the file layout is similar,
.B Linux
init scripts are not necessarily compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
init scripts.
.IP \(em
On
.I SVR 4.2
the
.IR STREAMS (9)
Special Shadow Filesystem is an integral part of the kernel and does not need to be installed or
mounted.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Initializing the
.I STREAMS
Special Shadow Filesystem is implementation specific and not subject to standardization.
.PP
The
.B openss7
init script conforms to
.I LSB
specification for init scripts and is compatible with a wide range of
RedHat-style and LSB compatibile systems.
.PP
The
.B openss7.sh
init script conforms to
.I Debian
policy.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B openss7
and
.B openss7.sh
init scripts are new to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
