'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man8/osid.8.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2015  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH OSID 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@"
.SH NAME
.B osid
\- OSI transport daemon
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fB\)osid\fP\ 'u
\fB\)osid\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fB\)osid\fP
{\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fB\)osid\fP
{\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fB\)osid\fP
{\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B osid
.BR STREAMS (9)
configuration utility constructs the STREAMS protocol stack from LAN and WAN
STREAMS drivers.
.B osid
determines which drivers to include in the protocol stack be reading the
.B /etc/osid.cfg
configuration file.
.PP
The sequence of steps that the
.B osid
daemon performs is described below:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em\ 'u
The
.B osid
program forks a daemon process, then terminates.  The daemon process
continues running to maintain the protocol stack.
.IP 2.
.B osid
opens the timer driver.
.B Note:
.I "@PACKAGE@"
does not have (or need) a timer driver.
.IP 3.
If the TP0/2/4 driver is available, (part of the WAN components),
.B osid
build the connection-oriented service (CONS) stack by opening the TP0/2/4
driver and linking a number of X.25 Streams underneath it.
.IP 4.
If the TP4/CLNP driver (part of the LAN components) is present,
.B osid
builds the connectionless stack.
If the LLC1 driver is present, it links one or more MAC drivers under the
LLC1 driver, then links the LLC1 Stream under the TP4/CLNP driver.
.[
iso8473_4
.]
.IP 5.
If the TP4/CLNP driver is present, and the SNDCF driver is present in
addition to or instead of the LLC1 driver,
.B osid
opens SNDCF, links a number of X.25 PLP Streams under it, and links the SNDCF
Stream under the TP4/CLNP Stream.
.[
iso8473_2
.]
.[
iso8473_3
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The
.B osid
command takes no non-option arguments.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.SS Command Options
The following command options are mutually exclusive: only one command option
should be present on the command line at a time.  The exceptions are the
\fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP and \fB-C\fP options that can be specified alone, or with
any other option.
When
.B osid
is used without a command option, it runs the daemon.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered, display usage information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered, display version information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered, display copying information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.\"
.SS Common Options
.PP
The following common options can be specified together with a command option.
It is not an error to specify options that are not necessary for the command
option with which they are specified.
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Suppress normal output.  Only the return code of the command is of interest.
This has the same effect as \fB--verbose=0\fP.
Enables quiet mode.  Only error messages are displayed.
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--debug\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the debugging verbosity.  Sets the debugging verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the debuggin verbosity by one
(1) when \fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the output verbosity.  Sets the output verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the output verbosity by one when
\fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILE FORMAT
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The configuration utility is designed so that it automatically builds the
correct protocol stack based on the specific and generic entries that the
.B osid.cfg
file contains.  The requirements of different network environments are shown
in the examples below.
.\"
.SS Configuring a LAN End System
.PP
The following is an example
.B osid.cfg
file designed to meet LAN end system configuration.
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Generic module names
TP4                 device=/dev/cots    # TP_610
LLC1                device=/dev/dlr     # DLPI_610

# MAC driver port 0 [ SGI Ethernet Card ]
PORT0               device=/dev/snif unit=0 esgaddr

# Mandatory lower layer support timer [ TIMER ]
TIMER               device=/dev/tmr

# LT-610 Class 4 Transport over CLNS [ TP_610 ]
TP_610              device=/dev/cots

# LT-610 LAN support [ DLPI_610 ]
DLPI_610            device=/dev/dlp
.fi
.RE
.PP
This end-system configuration file contains definitions for transport
protocol class 4 and DLPI
.[
dlpi
.]
drivers.  The system pollbug variable variable is set to true (as in all of
the scenarios given).  Just one port
.RB ( PORT0 )
is specified, and this port uses end-system group addressing
.RB ( esgaddr ).
.\"
.SS Configuring a LAN Intermediate System
.PP
The following is an example of an
.B osid.cfg
file designed to meet LAN intermediate system configuration requirements.
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Generic module names
TP4                 device=/dev/cots
LLC1                device=/dev/dlr

# Mandatory lower layer support timer [ TIMER ]
TIMER               device=/dev/tmr

# LT-610 Class 4 Transport over CLNS [ TP_610 ]
TP_610              device=/dev/cots

# LT-610 LAN support (required if LAN supported ) [ DLPI_610 ]
DLPI_610            device=/dev/dlr

# MAC driver port 0 [ SGI Ethernet Card ]
PORT0               device=/dev/snif unit=0 isgaddr

# MAC driver port 1 [ SGI Ethernet Card ]
PORT1               device=/dev/snif units=1 isgaddr
.fi
.RE
.PP
This intermediate system configuration file contains definitions for
Transport Protocol Class 4 and Data Link Layer drivers.  Note, however, that
two ports
.RB ( PORT0
and
.BR PORT1 )
are in use, and that intermediate system group addressing
.RB ( isgaddr )
is employed.
.\"
.SS Configuring a LAN/WAN End System to Intermediate System
.PP
The following is an example of an
.B osid.cfg
file designed to meet end system to intermediate system configuration:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Generic module names
TP4                 device=/dev/cots     # TP_610
SNDCF               device=/dev/sndc     # SNDCF_610
LLC1                device=/dev/dlr      # DLPI_610
TP024               device=/dev/cox      # TP_325

# Mandatory lower layer support timer [ TIMER ]
TIMER               device=/dev/tmr

# Class 0/2/4 transport service provider [ TP_325 driver ]
TP_325              device=/dev/cox

# LT-610 Class 4 Transport over CLNS [ TP_610 ]
TP_610              device=/dev/cots

# LT-610 LAN support  [ required if LAN supported ] [ DLP_610 ]
DLPI_610            device=/dev/dlr

# MAC driver port 0 [ SGI Ethernet Card ]
PORT0               device=/dev/snif unit=0 esgaddr

# LT-610 WAN support ( required if CLNS over X.25 supported ) [ SNDCF_610 ]
SNDCF_610           device=/dev/sndc

# X.25 Interface Driver Entries
MX25_0              device=/dev/sx25 loc_dte=12345678901111 nvcs=4
.fi
.RE
.PP
This end system to intermeditate system configuration file contains
definnitions for Transport Protocol Class 4, SNDCF, Transport Class 0/2/4,
and Data Link Layer drivers.  One port
.RB ( PORT0 )
is in use, and end-system group addressing
.RB ( esgaddr (8))
is employed.  The number of virtual circuits
.RB ( nvcs )
is set to four (4).
.PP
.\"
.SS Configuring a WAN System
.PP
The following is an example of an
.B osid.cfg
file designed ot meet WAN requirements:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Generic module name
TP024                device=/dev/cox             # TP_325

# Mandatory lower layer support timer [ TIMER ]
TIMER                device=/dev/tmr

# Class 0/2/4 transport service provider [ TP_325 driver ]
TP_324               device=/dev/cox

# X.25 Interface Driver Entries
MX25_1               device=/dev/sx25 loc_dte=1234568901111 nvcs=4
.fi
.RE
.PP
This WAN configuration file contains definitions for Transport Protocol Class
0/2/4 and X.25 interface drivers.  \fBMX25_1\fP specifies CPU-ID 2, port 1
(in other words, a single WAN card, or the first WAN card if two are
installed).  The number of virtual circuits
.RB ( ncvs )
is set to four (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates the the option or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of normal output to
.I stdout
and diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR STREAMS (9),
.BR osinetwork (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B osid
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B osid
is compatible with
.IR "IRIS OSI"
.[
irixosi
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Options \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP, \fB-C\fP, and all long
options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B strxt
and should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP
and \fB-C\fP options.  They should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
Options \fB--help\fP and \fB--version\fP are provided for compatibility with
GNU coding standards; \fB--copying\fP, OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "IRIS OSI"
.[
irixosi
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B osid
first appeared in
.IR "IRIS OSI" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
