'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man8/pingllc.8.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2015  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH PINGLLC 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@"
.SH NAME
.B pingllc
\- test network operations
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fB\)pingllc\fP\ 'u
\fB\)pingllc\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fIMAC_address\fP [\fIcount\fP [\fIlength\fP [\fIsubnetwork\fP]]]
.PD 0
.HP
\fB\)pingllc\fP
{\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fB\)pingllc\fP
{\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fB\)pingllc\fP
{\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Send LLC1 test packets to a remote node, receive the echoed response packets,
compare the two packets, and report and discrepancies.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.B pingllc
accepts the following arguments:
.TP
.I MAC_address
MAC address of the remote network node.
.TP
[\fIcount\fP]
The number of test packets to be sent.  If not specified, the number defaults to
one (1).
.TP
[\fIlength\fP]
The length of each test packet.  If not specified, the length defaults to 1024.
This utility is designed for 802.3 (Ethernet) type networks.  It limits the
packet size to 1500 octets (and the payload to 1498 octets).
.TP
[\fIsubnetwork\fP]
The port number of the MAC driver attached to the subnetwork over which the
test packet will be sent.  The port number is specified in the
.BR STREAMS (9)
configuration file.  See
.BR osid (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.SS Command Options
The following command options are mutually exclusive: only one command option
should be present on the command line at a time.  The exceptions are the
\fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP and \fB-C\fP options that can be specified alone, or with
any other option.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered, display usage information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered, display version information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered, display copying information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.\"
.SS Common Options
.PP
The following common options can be specified together with a command option.
It is not an error to specify options that are not necessary for the command
option with which they are specified.
.TP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--count\fP \fIcount\fP
Provides the \fIcount\fP argument as an option.

The number of test packets to be sent.  If not specified, the number defaults to
one (1).
.TP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--length\fP \fIlength\fP
Provides the \fIlength\fP argument as an option.

The length of each test packet.  If not specified, the length defaults to 1024.
This utility is designed for 802.3 (Ethernet) type networks.  It limits the
packet size to 1500 octets (and the payload to 1498 octets).
.TP
\fB-s\fP, \fB--subnetwork\fP \fIsubnetwork\fP
Provides the \fIsubnetwork\fP argument as an option.

The port number of the MAC driver attached to the subnetwork over which the
test packet will be sent.  The port number is specified in the
.BR STREAMS (9)
configuration file.  See
.BR osid (8).
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Suppress normal output.  Only the return code of the command is of interest.
This has the same effect as \fB--verbose=0\fP.
Enables quiet mode.  Only error messages are displayed.
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--debug\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the debugging verbosity.  Sets the debugging verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the debuggin verbosity by one
(1) when \fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the output verbosity.  Sets the output verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the output verbosity by one when
\fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH OUTPUT FORMAT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following is an example:
.PP
.nf
$> pingllc 0702163200a4 20
20 test packages sent and received
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates the the option or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of normal output to
.I stdout
and diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.SS Error Messages
.PP
The following error messages can be generated:
.TP
.B usage: pingllc MAC-address [count] [length] [subnetwork]
The command line did not contain a MAC address, or it contained too many
arguments.  Reenter the command line with proper arguments.
.TP
.B pingllc: illegal test packet size
The value you entered for the \fIlength\fP argument was out of the
permissible range for a MAC packet size.  Reenter the command line and
specify a packet size between 1 and 1500.
.TP
.B pingllc: invalid repeat count
You entered a repeat count less than 0.  Reenter the command line with a
positive repeat count.
.TP
.B pingllc: cannot get LLC device name
The LLC device name does not appear in the
.BR STREAMS (9)
configuration file.  See
.BR osid (8).
The most likely cause of this error is that the
.BR STREAMS (9)
configuration file has been corrupted or inadvertently deleted.  If this is
the case, you will have to restore the file from backup, or reconfigure it.
.TP
.B pingllc: llc1 device open failed
The LLC1 driver is not accessible.  Reinstall the
.B @PACKAGE@
software.
.TP
.B pingllc: unrecognized LLC BIND ACK message
LLC1 has sent an unexpected message type.
.TP
.B pingllc: could not bind to a LSAP
The LLC1 driver is too busy to handle the test request.  Try again later when
network traffic has decreased.
.TP
.B pingllc: invalid length of node address
The MAC address contained the wrong number of characters.  Check the MAC
address and reenter the corrected command line.  The address must contain
either 12 characters (6 bytes) or 14 characters (7 bytes).
.TP
.B pingllc: illegal hexadecimal character
A character that was not a valid hexadecimal digit was specified in the MAC
address.  Check the MAC address and reenter the command line.  These
addresses must contain only the characters 0 thru 9  and a thru f (or A thru
F).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
You can use
.B pingllc
only over a single LAN.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR STREAMS (9),
.BR osid (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B pingllc
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B pingllc
is compatible with
.IR "IRIS OSI"
.[
irixosi
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Options \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP, \fB-C\fP, and all long
options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B strxt
and should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP
and \fB-C\fP options.  They should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
Options \fB--help\fP and \fB--version\fP are provided for compatibility with
GNU coding standards; \fB--copying\fP, OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "IRIS OSI"
.[
irixosi
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B pingllc
first appeared in
.IR "IRIS OSI" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77



