'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: rmsf.8.man,v 1.1.2.1 2011-02-07 02:14:43 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:14:43 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: rmsf.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2011-02-07 02:14:43  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH RMSF 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B rmsf
\- remove a special (device) file
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fBrmsf\fP\ 'u
\fBrmsf \fR[\fB-a\fR|\fB-k\fR] [\fB-D\0\fIdirectory\fR] [\fB-q\fR|\fB-v\fR] \fIspecial_file\fR\0\fI...\fR
.PD 0
.HP
\fBrmsf \fR[\fB-C\0\fIclass\fR|\fB-d\0\fIdriver\fR] [\fB-D\0\fIdirectory\fR] \fB-H\0\fIhw_path\fR [\fB-k\fR] [\fB-q\fR|\fB-v\fR]
.HP
\fBrmsf\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBrmsf\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBrmsf\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 1
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B rmsf
command removes one or more special files from the
.B /dev
directory and potentially removes information about the associated device or
devices with hardware type
.I \(lqDEVICE\(rq
(see
.BR ioscan (8))
from the system.
.PP
When no options are specified,
.B rmsf
removes only the special files,
.IR special_files ,
specified on the command line.
.PP
The
.B -k
option causes
.B rmsf
to remove the definition of the device from the system without removing any
special files.
.PP
The
.B -a
option causes
.B rmsf
to remove the device definition, and all special files that map to it from
the
.B /dev
directory (or the directory specified with the
.B -D
option).
Note that if special file,
.IR special_file ,
belongs to a node for which the hardware type is not
.IR \(lqDEVICE\(rq ,
the device definition will not be removed from the system and the special
file,
.IR special_file ,
will be removed if it is a leaf node.
.PP
If a
.BI -H " hw_path
is specified, special files are removed as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If hardware path,
.IR hw_path ,
belongs to a node with hardware type
.IR \(lqDEVICE\(rq ,
all special files mapping to devices at that hardware path and the system
definition of those devices are removed.
.IP \(bu
If hardware path,
.IR hw_path ,
belongs to a node for which hardware type is not
.IR \(lqDEVICE\(rq ,
then, a special file is removed as follows:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
When it is a leaf node, only special files for that node will be removed.
.IP \(em
When the node has children, a warning message will be issued and system
definition of all the child devices and their special files are removed.
.RE
.PP
The
.BR -C " and " -d
options remove only those special files that are associated with the given
device driver or that belong to the given device class, respectively.  This
useful when there is more than one type of special file mapped to a single
hardware path.
.PP
If the
.B -k
option is specified, the defintion of all devices at that hardware path
are removed from the system, again without removing any special files.
.PP
Normally,
.B rmsf
displays a message as the special files are deleted for each driver.  The
.B -q
(quiet) option suppresses the deletion message.
The
.B -v
(verbose) option displays the deletion message and the name of each special
file as it is deleted.
.PP
Note that most drivers do not support the ability to be removed from the
system.
.PP
When the device being removed from the system uses a dynamically assigned
major number, that number will be freed up for future allocation.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B rmsf
recognizes the following options:
.TP
.BR -a ", " --all
Remove the definition of the device from the system along with all special
files that refer to the device.  This option cannot be used with
.BR -k .
.TP
.BR -C ", " --class " \fI\)class\fP
Match devices that belong to a given device class, class.  Device classes can
be listed with the
.BR lsdev (8)
command).  They are defined in files in the directory
.BR /usr/conf/master.d .
This option cannot be used with
.BR -d .
.TP
.BR -d ", " --driver " \fI\)driver\fP
Matches devices that are controlled by the specified device driver,
.IR driver .
Device drivers can be listed with the
.BR lsdev (8)
command.  They are defined in files in the directory
.BR /usr/conf/master.d .
This option cannot be used with
.BR -c .
.TP
.BR -D ", " --directory " \fI\)directory\fP
Override the default device installation directory,
.BR /dev ,
and remove the special files from the directory,
.IR directory ,
instead.  The directory,
.IR directory ,
must exist; otherwise,
.B rmsf
displays an error message and exits.  See
.RI \(lq WARNINGS \(rq.
.TP
.BR -H ", " --hwpath " \fI\)hw_path\fP
Match devices at a given hardware path,
.IR hw_path .
Hardware paths can be listed with the
.BR ioscan (8)
command.  A hardware path specifies the addresses of the hardware components
leading to a device.  It consists of a string of numbers separated by periods
.RB ( . ),
such as 52 (a card), 52.3 (a target address), and 52.3.0 (a device).  If a
hardware component is a bus converter, the following period, if any, is
replaced by a slash
.RB ( / )
as in 2, 2/3, and 2/3.0.
.TP
.BR -k ", " --keep
Remove the definition of the device from the system, but not any special
files.  This option cannot be used with
.BR -a .
.TP
.BR -q ", " --quiet
Quiet option.  Normally,
.B rmsf
displays a message as each driver is removed.  This option supresses the
driver message, but not error messages.  See the
.B -v
option.
.TP
.BR -v ", " --verbose
Verbose option.  In addition to the normal processing message, display the
name of each special file as it is removed.  See the
.B -q
option.  Print the names of the files as
.B rmsf
is removing them.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
When this option is encountered,
.B rmsf
displays usage information on
.I stdout
and exits.  No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no
actions are taken.
.TP
.BR -V ", " --version
When this option is encountered,
.B rmsf
displays version information on
.I stdout
and exits.  No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no
actions are taken.
.TP
.BR -c ", " --copying
When this option is encountered,
.B rmsf
displays copying and copyright information on
.I stdout
and exits.  No further processing of options or arguments is performed and no
actions are taken.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
.B rmsf
exits with one of the following values:
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion, including warning diagnostics.
.TP
.B 1
Failure.  An error occurred.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Most of the diagnostic messages from
.B rmsf
are self-explanatory.  Listed below are some messages deserving further
clarification.  Errors cause
.B rmsf
to halt immediately.  Warnings allow the program to continue.
.\"
.SS Errors
.TP
No such device in the system
No device in the system matched the options specified.  Use
.BR ioscan (8)
to list the devices in the system.
.TP
.IR special_file " is not a special file
The file is not associated with an I/O device.
.\"
.SS Warnings
.TP
WARNING: The specified hardware path is BUS_NEXUS/INTERFACE type.
.PD 0
.TP
This will remove all devices connected to it.
.PD
The H/W type of the node specified by the hardware path,
.IR hw_path ,
is BUS_NEXUS/INTERFACE.  All the devices under this path will be removed.
.TP
.RI "Cannot remove driver at " hw_path
The defintion of the device located at the hardware path,
.IR hw_path ,
and controlled by driver,
.IR driver ,
cannot be removed from the kernel.  That is, driver,
.IR driver ,
does not support the unbind function.
.TP
.RI "No device associated with " special_file
The special file,
.IR special_file ,
does not map to a device in the system; the file is removed unless the
.B -k
option was specified.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B rmsf
is compatible only with
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
devices.
The command will not function with regular
.B Linux
devices.
.PP
Most commands and sybsystems assume their device files are in
.BR /dev ,
therefore the use of the
.B -D
option is discouraged.
.PP
Most device drivers do not support the unbind operation necessary to remove
the device from the system.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Remove the special file
.B mux0
from the current directory:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
rmsf ./mux0
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Remove the system definition of the device associated with
.B /dev/lp0
along with all special files that refer to the device:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
rmsf -a /dev/lp0
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Remove the system definitions for all devices associated with hardware path
.BR 52.6.0 :
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
rmsf -k -H 52.6.0
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /sbin/rmsf
contains the
.B rmsf
command.
.TP
.B /dev/config
I/O system special file
.TP
.B /dev/ioconfig
I/O system configuration database
.TP
.B /usr/conf/master.d/*
device configuration files
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR rm (1),
.BR insf (8),
.BR ioscan (8),
.BR lsdev (8),
.BR lssf (8),
.BR mksf (8),
.BR ioconfig (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B rmsf
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B rmsf
command is provided for compatibility with the
.IR HP-UX \(rg
command of the same name,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B rmsf
is provided only for compatibility with
.IR HP-UX \(rg
for
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
devices.
The command will not function with regular
.B Linux
devices.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR -h ", " -V " and " -c ,
all long options, are specific to this
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B rmsf
and should not be used by portable applications.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the
.BR -h ", " -V " or -c
options.  They should not be used by portable applications.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR HP-UX \(rg
documentation.
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B rmsf
was developed by HP.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
