'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man8/rtgconfig.8.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2015  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH RTGCONFIG 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@"
.SH NAME
.B rtgconfig
\- configure routing parameters for ES-IS
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNPOSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fB\)rtgconfig\fP\ 'u
\fB\)rtgconfig\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fB\)rtgconfig\fP
{\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fB\)rtgconfig\fP
{\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fB\)rtgconfig\fP
{\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Sets configuration parameters for ES-IS routing exchange protocol.
.[
iso9542
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.SS Command Options
The following command options are mutually exclusive: only one command option
should be present on the command line at a time.  The exceptions are the
\fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP and \fB-C\fP options that can be specified alone, or with
any other option.
If no command option is supplied,
.B rtgconfig
displays all parameter values.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered, display usage information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered, display version information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered, display copying information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.\"
.SS Common Options
.PP
The following common options can be specified together with a command option.
It is not an error to specify options that are not necessary for the command
option with which they are specified.
Note that long options can be specified with a single leading dash for
compatibility.
Note also that all times are specified in milliseconds.
.TP
\fB--ct\fP \fIseconds\fP
Sets the ES-IS configuration timer value (in seconds) for the network.  This
is the amount of time that can elapse before CLNP sends another hello packet.
The value of this parameter should be set to a progressively larger value for
progressively larger networks to reduce network congestion caused by ES-IS
traffic.  If you do not include this argument, its value defaults to 20
seconds.
.TP
\fB--rt\fP \fIseconds\fP
Sets the redirect timer (in seconds).  This value sets the amount of time
since a remote system sent its last hello packet that its entry is maintained
in the CLNP routing table.  If you do not include this option, its value
defaults to 45 seconds.  The value should always be set to at least twice the
value of the configuration timer.
.TP
\fB--notify\fP \fIflag\fP
Specifies whether or not the local system responds immediately  to a new
system coming on-line.  If \fIflag\fP is set to a nonzero value, immediate
notification is enabled; if set to zero, notification is disabled.  In large
networks, this notification may be disabled so that systems are not
overwhelmed by notification packets as soon as they come on-line.  If you do
not include this argument, its value defaults to 1 (enabled).
.TP
\fB--esqaddr\fP \fISNPA_address\fP
Sets the end system multicast SNPA address recognized and used by this
system.  A packet sent to this address is received by all intermediate
systems (IS) on the network.  The SNAP address consists of 7 bytes.  The
first 6 bytes identify the MAC address; the seventh specifies the LSAP
address (always FE).  Only hexadecimal digits are accepted.  Do not enter
spaces or other punctuation.

.B Note:
If you do not include this option in the command line, it defaults to the
correct value for a standard OSI network.  This default need not normally be
changed.  If your network does not use the standard value, check the value
set in the MAC driver to make sure it correlates with this one.
.TP
\fB--isqaddr\fP \fISNPA_address\fP
Sets the intermediate system (IS) multicast SNPA address recognized and used
by this system.  A packet sent to this address is received by all end systems
(ES) on the network.

.B Note:
If you do not includes this option in the command line, it defaults to the
correct value for standard OSI network.  The default need not normally be
changed.  If your network does not use the standard value, check the value
set in the MAC driver to make sure it correlates with this one.
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Suppress normal output.  Only the return code of the command is of interest.
This has the same effect as \fB--verbose=0\fP.
Enables quiet mode.  Only error messages are displayed.
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--debug\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the debugging verbosity.  Sets the debugging verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the debuggin verbosity by one
(1) when \fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the output verbosity.  Sets the output verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the output verbosity by one when
\fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The
.B rtgconfig
command takes no non-option arguments.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH OUTPUT FORMAT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE OUTPUT
.PP
The following is an example output when no command options are specified.
.PP
.nf
ES-IS Configuration timer value (seconds):  40
ES-IS Redirect timer value (seconds):       60
ES-IS Configuration Notify enable:          1
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates the the option or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of normal output to
.I stdout
and diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.SS Error Messages
.PP
The following error messages can be issued:
.TP
.B could not open \fIdevice\fP
The TP4/CLNP driver has not been installed.  Install it.
.TP
.B rtgconfig: unknown parmaeter \fI\'p\'\fP
An option was specified on the command line that was no recognized.  Check
the list of options and reenter the command line.
.TP
.B rtgconfig: invalid SNPA-address length \fIn\fP
The SNPA address contained the wrong number of characters.  Check the SNPA
address and reenter the corrected command line.  The address must contain
either 12 characters (6 bytes) or 14 characters (7 bytes).
.TP
.B rtgconfig: invalid hexadecimal character \fIc\fP in address
A character that was on a valid hexadecimal digit was specified in either the
NSAP or SNPA address.  Check the NSAP or SNAP address and reenter the command
line.  These addresses must contain only the characters 0 thru 9 and a thru f
(or A thru F).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR osid (8),
.BR osinetwork (8),
.BR rtgstat (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B rtgconfig
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B rtgconfig
is compatible with
.IR "IRIS OSI"
.[
irixosi
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Options \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP, \fB-C\fP, and all long
options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B strxt
and should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP
and \fB-C\fP options.  They should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
Options \fB--help\fP and \fB--version\fP are provided for compatibility with
GNU coding standards; \fB--copying\fP, OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "IRIS OSI"
.[
irixosi
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B rtgconfig
first appeared in
.IR "IRIS OSI" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
