'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man8/sdlautomon.8.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SDLAUTOMON 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.SH NAME
.B sdlautomon
\- SS7 Montitor Link Autoconfiguration Utility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP 12
\fBsdlautomon\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBsdlautomon\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBsdlautomon\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBsdlautomon\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sdlautomon
is a automatic configuration utility for monitoring applications.  The
purpose is to allow zero-setup of the X400P-SS7 card drivers,
.BR x400p (4),
for monitoring configurations.
.PP
.B sdlautomon
is a Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) automatic configuration utility for
performing link configuration of the X400P-SS7 card drivers,
.BR x400p (4).
There are a wide range of settings possible on a X400P-SS7 card.  The cards
can be set for E1, T1 or J1 operation, and each span can be configuration in
a number of ways and in a number of details.  It is rather confusing
performing the settings.  Also, the X400P-SS7 card drivers are normally set
up for active signalling and are not usually placed into a monitoring
configuration (although they are fully capable of monitoring arrangements).
For these reasons, it was desirable to have an auto-configuration utility
that would automatically detect the proper configuration of the cards for
monitoring applications.
.PP
The
.B sdlautomon
utility performs the following actions:
.IP 1. 4
First order of business is discovering all of the cards in the system.  This
is performed by inserting the X400P-SS7 driver.  When inserted, the X400P-SS7
driver probes for available cards.  THe X400P-SS7 driver can also be
automatically inserted.
.IP 2.
For each span on each card, the span is configured for full E1, T1, J1
operation in monitoring mode and the span is powered up.  Each span is
allowed to settle and the span is checked for alarm conditions.  Each card is
cycled through various span settings and monitoring gains for T1, E1 and then
J1, until a no-alarm condition is found for a span.  This operation may take
several minutes.
.IP 3.
Each of the spans that are unable to synchronize with a no-alarm condition is
marked unusable and powered down.  As an option, the autoconfiguration for
each powered down span can be initiated again on a regular interval or can be
abandonned altogether.
.IP 4.
Spans with no alarm conditions are then configured for channel operation:
either single channel Q.703 operation, or full span Q.703 Annex A operation.
Channelized spans are attempted first as this is the common case.
.IP 5.
Spans that are framing SS7 frames and are encountering minimum framing errors
are considered suitable for monitoring and the configuration is locked in.
Configuration files for the successful spans are written.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
When specified without any option, the
.B sdlautomon
utility will run in the foreground, and output data captured from the
.B /dev/x400p-sl
driver bound.
.SS Command Options
.SS General Options
.SS Set/Get Options
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sdlconfig (8),
.BR ss7capd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B sdlautomon
has no known bugs.
Report bugs to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.PP
.B sdlautomon
is backward compatible with previous versions of the utility.  The output
format has not changed over the various versions of the utility.
Output from the program is compatible with the
.BR sdlconfig (8),
program, used to perform manual configuration of Signalling Data Links.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SS7 Signalling Link autoconfiguration is not subject to standardization.  The
.B sdlautomon
utility conforms to the OpenSS7
Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi (7),
version
.BR 1.1.1 ,
and the Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI),
.BR sdti (7),
version
.BR 1.1.1 .
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B sdlautomon
originalling appeared in the OpenSS7
.BR openss7
package in version
.BR 1.1.1 .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

