'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man8/sdlconfig.8.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SDLCONFIG 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sdlconfig
\- SDL configuration utility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBsdlconfig\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-g\fR, \fB--get\fR}
.PD 0
.HP
\fBsdlconfig\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-s\fR, \fB--set\fR}
.HP
\fBsdlconfig\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-f\fR, \fB--file\fR} \fIFILENAME\fR
.HP
\fBsdlconfig\fR {\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBsdlconfig\fR {\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBsdlconfig\fR {\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sdlconfig
is an SDL configuration program for the
.BR x400p (4)
.I STREAMS
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
(none).
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.\"
.SS "Command Options"
.PP
The following command options determine the mode of the command and are mutually exclusive options:
.TP
\fB-g\fR, \fB--get\fR
Obtain information about the configuration of the device.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--set\fR
Set configuration data on the device.
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--file\fR \fIFILENAME\fR
Set configuration data and devices listed in file,
.IR FILENAME .
.PP
The following options are coding standard options for the OpenSS7 project that are supported by all
command line utilities:
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-?\fR, \fB--?\fR
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered, print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.SS "General Options"
.PP
The following are general options controlling the output of the utility and can be applied to the
command in many mode:
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Specifies that the caller is interested only in the return code and that normal output should be
suppressed.  This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=0 .
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fILEVEL\fR]
Increases or sets the verbosity level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the verbosity level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the verbosity level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.  For example,
.B -vvvvv
is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=5 .
.\"
.SS "Set/Get Options"
.PP
The following options are common to both get and set operations.  The first option specifies the
device name and the remaining three common options identify the timeslots, spans and card upon which
the get or set operation is to be performed.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--device\fR \fIDEVNAME\fR
Specifies the device name,
.IR DEVNAME ,
to get or set.  The default device name is
.RB \(lq /dev/x400p-sl \(rq.
.PP
The next three common options specify the PPA (Physical Point of Appearance) to which the
configuration utility will attach.
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--card\fR \fICARD\fR
Specifies the card number,
.IR CARD .
This is a numeral representing the logical card number (in bus order).  The default is zero
.RB ( 0 ),
or the first logical card.
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--span\fR \fISPAN\fR
Specifies the span on the card,
.IR SPAN .
This is a numeral representing a specific cardinal span number on the card.  The default is zero
.RB ( 0 ),
representing all spans on the card.
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--slot\fR \fISLOT\fR
Specifies the time slot on the card,
.IR SLOT .
This is a numeral representing the cardinal timeslot number within the span(s), or zero to indicate
all timeslots in the span(s).  The default is zero
.RB ( 0 ),
representing all data carying timeslots with the span(s).
.\"
.SS "Set Options"
.PP
The following options are only applicable to the
.BR -s ", " --set
command option and are used to specify which configuration data elements to set:
.TP
\fB--clock\fR \fICLOCK\fR
Specifies the interface clock source.
.I CLOCK
can be one of the following mnemonic strings:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBdefault\fR\(em'u
.B default
the default clocking for the span.
.PD 0
.TP
.B int
internal clocking.
.TP
.B ext
external clocking.
.TP
.B loop
loop clocking.
.TP
.B master
master clock.
.TP
.B slave
slave clock.
.TP
.B dpll
digital phase locked loop.
.TP
.B abr
average bit rate.
.TP
.B shaper
traffic shaper.
.TP
.B tick
system tick clock.
.PD
.RE
.IP ""
Not all settings are applicable to all devices.
.B abr
is only applicable to ATM SAL links.
.BR shaper " and " tick
are only applicable to SS7 over UDP links.
.TP
\fB--rate\fR \fIRATE\fR
Specifies the channel rate.
.I RATE
can be one of:
.RS
.TP \w'\fB2048000\fR\(em'u
.B 56000
DS0A channel.
.PD 0
.TP
.B 64000
DS0 channel.
.TP
.B 1544000
entire T1/J1 span.
.TP
.B 2048000
entire E1 span.
.PD
.RE
.IP ""
The channer rate of
.BR 1544000 " and " 2048000
can only be applied on slot zero (0) of a T1/J1 or an E1 span, respectively.
A channel rate of
.B 56000
is only really applicable to a T1 span; however, it can be set against a
channel on an E1 span just for the sake of it.
.TP
\fB--type\fR \fITYPE\fR
Specifies the channel interface type.
.I TYPE
can be one of:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBdefault\fR\(em'u
.B default
the channel interface is the default for the device.
.PD 0
.TP
.B v35
the channel interface is a V.35 interface.
.TP
.B ds0
the channel interface is a DS0 interface.
.TP
.B ds0a
the channel interface is a DS0A interface.
.TP
.B e1
the channel interface is an entire statistically multiplexed E1 span.
.TP
.B t1
the channel interface is an entire statistically multiplexed T1 span.
.TP
.B j1
the channel interface is an entire statistically multiplexed J1 span.
.TP
.B atm
the channel interface is ATM.
.TP
.B packet
the channel interface is packet based.
.PD
.RE
.IP ""
.B v35
is only applicable to V.35 (synchronous serial) devices and includes an
interpretation of leads.
.B ds0a
is only really applicable to channels in T1/J1 spans, but can be applied to a
channel (non-zero slot) in an E1 span for the sake of it.
.B atm
is only applicable to ATM SAL links.
.B packet
is only applicable to OpenSS7 SS7 over UDP links.
.TP
\fB--mode\fR \fIMODE\fR
Specifies the mode of the channel interface.
.I MODE
can be one of:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBdefault\fR\(em'u
.B default
the channel mode is the default for the device.
.PD 0
.TP
.B dsu
the channel is DSU mode.
.TP
.B csu
the channel is CSU mode.
.TP
.B dte
the channel is DTE mode.
.TP
.B dce
the channel is DCE mode.
.TP
.B client
the channel is client mode.
.TP
.B server
the channel is server mode.
.TP
.B peer
the channel is peer mode.
.TP
.B echo
the channel is in echo mode.
.TP
.B rem_lb
the channel is in remote loopback mode.
.TP
.B loc_lb
the channel is in local loopback mode.
.TP
.B lb_echo
the channel is in loopback and echo mode.
.TP
.B test
the channel is in test mode.
.PD
.RE
.IP ""
.BR dsu ", " csu ", " dte " and " dce
settings are only applicable to V.35 interfaces.
.BR client ", " server ", and " peer
modes are only applicable to SS7 over UDP and ATM SAL links.
.BR echo ", " rem_lb ", " loc_lb ", " lb_echo ", and " test
modes are applicable, but not necessarily supported, by all devices.
.TP
\fB--grate\fR \fIGROUP-RATE\fR
Specifies the group rate.
.I GROUP-RATE
can be one of:
.RS
.TP \w'\fB1000000000\fR\(em'u
.B 1544000
T1 or J1 span.
.PD 0
.TP
.B 2048000
E1 span.
.TP
.B 10000000
10baseT Ethernet
.TP
.B 100000000
100baseT Ethernet
.TP
.B 1000000000
GigE
.PD
.RE
.TP
\fB--gtype\fR \fIGROUP-TYPE\fR
Specifies the group type.
.I GROUP-TYPE
can be one of:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBdefault\fR\(em'u
.B default
the group is the default for the device.
.PD 0
.TP
.B t1
the group is a T1 span.
.TP
.B e1
the group is an E1 span.
.TP
.B j1
the group is a J1 span.
.TP
.B atm
the group is ATM AAL5.
.TP
.B eth
the group is Ethernet/IEEE 802.3.
.TP
.B ip
the group is over Internet Protocol (IP).
.TP
.B udp
the group is over User Datagram Protocol (UDP).
.TP
.B tcp
the group is over Transmission Control Protocol (TCP).
.TP
.B rtp
the group is over Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP).
.TP
.B sctp
the group is over Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP).
.PD
.RE
.TP
\fB--gmode\fR \fIGROUP-MODE\fR
Specifies the group mode.
.I GROUP-MODE
can be one of:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBdefault\fR\(em'u
.B default
the group mode is default (normal).
.PD 0
.TP
.B loc_lb
the group mode is local loopback.
.TP
.B rem_lb
the group mode is remote loopback.
.PD
.RE
.TP
\fB--gcrc\fR \fIGROUP-CRC\fR
Specifies the group CRC.
.I GROUP-CRC
can be one of:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBdefault\fR\(em'u
.B default
.PD 0
.TP
.B crc4
G.703 CRC4 calculation.
.TP
.B crc5
G.703 CRC5 calculation.
.TP
.B crc6
G.703 CRC6 calculation.
.TP
.B crc6j
JG.703 CRC6J calculation.
.PD
.RE
.TP
\fB--coding\fR \fICODING\fR
Specifies the bit coding for the interface.
.I CODING
can be one of:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBdefault\fR\(em'u
.B default
coding is default for the device.
.PD 0
.TP
.B nrz
Non-Return to Zero coding.
.TP
.B nrzi
Non-Return to Zero Inverted coding.
.TP
.B ami
Alternate Mark Inversion coding.
.TP
.B b6zs
6 zero bit suppression coding.
.TP
.B b8zs
8 zero bit suppression coding.
.TP
.B aal1
ATM Adaption Layer 1 coding.
.TP
.B aal2
ATM Adaption Layer 2 coding.
.TP
.B aal5
ATM Adaption Layer 5 coding.
.TP
.B hdb3
HDB3 coding.
.PD
.RE
.IP ""
Not all codings are applicable to all devices.
.BR aal1 ", " aal2 ", and " aal5
are only applicable to ATM SAL links.
.TP
\fB--framing\fR \fIFRAMING\fR
Specifies the framing for the interface.
.I FRAMING
can be one of:
.RS
.TP
.B ccs
CCS (Clear Channel Signalling) framing.
.PD 0
.TP
.B cas
CAS (Channel Associated Signalling) framing.
.TP
.B sf
Super Frame framing.
.TP
.B esf
Extended Super Frame framing.
.PD
.RE
.TP
\fB--syncsrc\fR \fISYNC1\fR[,\fISYNC2\fR[,\fISYNC3\fR[,\fISYNC4\fR]]]\fR
Specifies the synchronization source for the card in order of selection.  Each of
.IR SYNC1 ", " SYNC2 ", " SYNC3 ", " SYNC4
can take on one of the following values:
.RS
.IP \fB0\fR
synchronize to internal clock.
.PD 0
.IP \fB1\fR
synchornize to span 1.
.IP \fB2\fR
synchornize to span 2.
.IP \fB3\fR
synchronize to span 3.
.IP \fB4\fR
synchronize to span 4.
.IP \fB5\fR
syncrhonize to external clock.
.PD
.RE
.IP ""
These settings only determine where the card takes it timing source.  The settings of individual
spans on a card can be set using the
.B --clock
option.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When
.B sdlconfig
fails, it prints a diagnostic message to
.I stderr
and exits with a non-zero return code.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B sdlconfig
is normally invoked by @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ configuration scripts.
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
.BR x400p (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/sdlconfig
contains the
.B sdlconfig
command.

.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR x400p (4),
.BR test-x400p (8),
.BR sdli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B sdlconfig
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B sdlconfig
is compatible with previous releases of the utility.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Signalling Data Link configuration is not subject to standardization.
.B sdlconfig
conforms to the Signalling Data Link Interface specification
.BR sdli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B sdlconfig
is provided with the \(lq@PACKAGE_TITLE@\(rq package.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
