'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strvf.8.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:37:48 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:37:48 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strvf.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:37:48  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRVF 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B strvf
\- \fISTREAMS\fR verification tool
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBstrvf\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBstrvf\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstrvf\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstrvf\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B strvf
command executes a series of subcommands that verify whether or not
.I STREAMS
is currently installed and configured on your system.  All output is sent to
.IR stdout .
Verbose output is always sent to the log file
.BR /var/log/streams/strvf.log .
.\".BR /var/adm/streams/strvf.log .
.PP
These subcommands make sure that the
.I STREAMS
kernel daemons are running and that
.BR open (2s),
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR ioctl (2s)
and
.BR close (2)
can be performed on
.BR /dev/echo .
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB-n\fR, \fB--nologging\fR
Suppress logging, send output to
.B stdout
and errors to
.BR stderr .
Default: off.
.TP
\fB-b\fR, \fB--basename\fR \fIBASENAME\fR
Only significant when logging.
Set the base name of logging and error files.  Default:
.RB \(lq strvf \(rq.
.TP
\fB-O\fR, \fB--directory\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR
Only significant when logging.
Set the directory to which log and error files are written.  Default:
.RB \(lq /var/log/streams \(rq.
.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB--outfile\fR \fIOUTFILE\fR
Only significant when logging.
Set the output file name for logging.  Default:
\(lq\fIBASENAME\fB.log\fR\(rq.
.TP
\fB-e\fR, \fB--errfile\fR \fIERRFILE\fR
Only significant when logging.
Set the output file name for errors.  Default:
\(lq\fIBASENAME\fB.err\fR\(rq.
.TP
\fB-D\fR, \fB--devname\fR \fIDEVNAME\fR
Only significant when logging.
Set the device name to perform test upon.  Default:
.RB \(lq /dev/echo \(rq.
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Suppress normal output.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--debug\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increase, or specify the debugging of the output.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fIlevel\fR]
Increase, or specify the verbosity of the output.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Print usage information and exit.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
Print version information and exit.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
Print copying information and exit.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.B strvf
returns a zero (0) exit status on success.  If
.B strvf
fails, it returns an exit status of one (1) and prints a diagnostic error
message to
.BR stderr .
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that
.B strvf
was successful; one (1) indicates that an error occurred and diagnostic message
is printed on
.BR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message
is printed on
.BR stderr .
.PP
Errors may result from the failure of any of the test in the verification
procedure, failure to open the
.B /dev/echo
device, or inadequate permissions.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Sample output:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1
.\"-> Logging results to /var/adm/streams/strvf.log
-> Logging results to /var/log/streams/strvf.log
--------------------------------------------------
-> Verify Linux Fast-STREAMS installation.
-> Verify open, putmsg, getmsg, ioctl, and close
-> can be performed on a stream.
--------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------
-> Linux Fast-STREAMS is installed and operational
--------------------------------------------------
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.B /dev/echo
Loopback
.I STREAMS
driver used by
.BR strvf .
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/strvf
contains the
.B strvf
command.
.TP
.B /var/log/streams/strvf.log
.\".B /var/adm/streams/strvf.log
contains a verbose description and status of all sub-commands.
.TP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR echo (4),
.BR strtst (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B strvf
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.IR HP-UX \(rg.
This is an
.IR HP-UX \(rg-specific
command.
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.B strvf
is provided in
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
for compatibility with
.IR HP-UX \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR HP-UX \(rg
does not document any long options.
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg
does not document the
.BR -d ", " -q ", " -v ", " -h ", " -V " or " -C options.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.IP \(em
The format of the output from the
.B strvf
command may be different from that of
.IR HP-UX \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR HP-UX \(rg
documentation.
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B strvf
first appeared in
.IR HP-UX \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
