'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man8/tp24config.8.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2015  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TP24CONFIG 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@"
.SH NAME
.B tp24config
\- configure TP0/2/4 parameters
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNPOSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fB\)tp24config\fP\ 'u
\fB\)tp24config\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fB\)tp24config\fP
{\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fB\)tp24config\fP
{\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fB\)tp24config\fP
{\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Sets the value for the specified TP0/2/4 configuration parameters.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.SS Command Options
The following command options are mutually exclusive: only one command option
should be present on the command line at a time.  The exceptions are the
\fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP and \fB-C\fP options that can be specified alone, or with
any other option.
If no command option is supplied,
.B tp24config
displays all parameter values.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered, display usage information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered, display version information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered, display copying information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.\"
.SS Common Options
.PP
The following common options can be specified together with a command option.
It is not an error to specify options that are not necessary for the command
option with which they are specified.
Note that long options can be specified with a single leading dash for
compatibility.
Note also that all times are specified in milliseconds.
.TP
\fB--inactivity\fP \fItime\fP
(Class 4 only.)
Inactivity time; the amout of time that TP4 CLNS maintains a transport
connection without any data transmission before it terminates the connection.
If this argument is not specified, it defaults to 960,000 (960 seconds; 16
minutes).
.TP
\fB--retransmit\fP \fItime\fP
(Class 4 only.)
The amount of time that TP4 CLNS waits without receiving an acknowledgment of
a TPDU it sent before it retransmits the TPDU.  (The maximum number of times
the same TPDU can be transmitted can be specified with the \fB-n\fP option.)
TP4 CLNS automatically adjusts the value of this parameter individually for
each connection based on the performance of the network.  If this option is
not specified, it defaults to 30,000 (30 seconds).
.TP
\fB--window\fP \fItime\fP
(Class 4 only.)
Window timer value; the period of inactivity that can occur before TP4 CLNS
sends an \(lq\)Ack\(rq\) packet to the peer entity with which a connection is
established.  If this option is not specified, its value defaults to 120,000
(120 seconds).
.TP
\fB--ack\fP \fItime\fP
(Class 4 only.)
Local acknowledgment delay; the maximum amount of time TP4 CLNS can delay
acknowledgement of a TPDU it receives.  If this argument is not specified,
its value defaults to 512 (0.512 seconds).
.TP
\fB--flow\fP \fItime\fP
If TP0/2/4 has no receive credit available, it checks the available resources
every \fItime\fP milliseconds until credit becomes available.  If this option
is not specified, its value defaults to 208 (0.208 seconds).
.TP
\fB--n\fP \fIiterations\fP
(Class 4 only.)
Maximum number of times a TPDU can be sent without being acknowledged.  If
this argument is not specified, its value defaults to 4.
.TP
\fB--credit\fP \fIvalue\fP
(Classes 2 and 4 only.)
Maximum value to which TP2 or TP4 can adjust the window size; that is, the
number of unacknowledged TPDUs that can be outstanding on a connection.  If
this option is not specified, its value defaults to 4.
.TP
\fB--initial\fP \fIvalue\fP
(Class 4 only.)
The initial window size when the connection is first established.  TP4 CLNS
will adjust this value up to the maximum automatically.  If this argument is
not specified, its value defaults to 1.
.TP
\fB--maxtpdu\fP \fIvalue\fP
Maximum size of a TPDU.  It is recommended that you select one of the
following values: 128, 256, 512 or 1024 bytes.  If this option is not
specified, its value defaults to 1024.  If you change the default, it is
important that you ensure there are sufficient STREAMS buffers of the
appropriate size.  Use the
.BR strstat (8)
utility to determine the number of buffers available in the size you specify,
and increase this number if necessary using the procedures outlined for
installation.  If this option is not specified, its value defaults to 512. 
.TP
\fB--maxtidu\fP \fIvalue\fP
Maximum number of bytes of the data units passed between the XTI/TLI library,
.BR xti (3),
and the TP0/2/4 STREAMS driver.  If this is larger than the TPDU size, the
STREAMS driver will fragment the message into TPDU-size packets before
sending it to Transport.  If this option is not specified, its value defaults
to 504.
.TP
\fB--checksum\fP \fIflag\fP
(Class 4 only.)
If \fIflag\fP is a nonzero value, the TPDU checksum features is enabled; if
zero, it is disabled.  Enabling this feature slows down TP4 CLNS operation
significantly.  If this option is not specified, its value defaults to 0
(disabled).
.TP
\fB--extended\fP \fIflag\fP
(Class 4 only.)
If \fIflag\fP is a nonzero value, transport proposes to use extended TPDU
sequencing when it initiates a connect request (CR) TPDU; if zero, transport
proposes normal sequencing.  If this option is not specified, its value
defaults to 1 (enabled).
.TP
\fB--propose\fP \fIflag\fP
(Class 4 only.)
If \fIflag\fP is a nonzero value, transport proposes to use extended TPDU
sequencing when it initiates a connect request (CR) TPDU; if zero, transport
proposes normal sequencing.  If this option is not specified, its value
defaults to 1 (enabled).
.TP
\fB--transaction\fP \fItime\fP
The number of millisecons that a network connection is held open waiting for
an ISO 8602 UD TPDU.  (ISO 8602 connectionless transport protocol only.)  If
this option is not specified, its value defaults to 60,000 (60 seconds).
.TP
\fB--ts1\fP \fItime\fP
(Classes 0 and 2 only.)
The maximum amount of time that transport will wait for a response after CR
TPDU has been transmitted.  If this option is not specified, its value
defaults to 60,000 (60 seconds).
.TP
\fB--ts2\fP \fItime\fP
(Classes 0 and 2 only.)
The maximum amount of time that transport will wait for a response after a DR
TPDU has been transmitted.  If this option is not specified, its value
defaults to 30,000 (30 seconds).
.TP
\fB--delay\fP \fItime\fP
The time delay before disconnecting the network connection.  The purpose of
this small delay is to avoid loss of data during network layer disconnection.
If this option is not specified, its value defaults to 1000 (1 second).
.TP
\fB--idle\fP \fItime\fP
The maximum time that an idle network connection will be left open.  If this
argument is not specified, its value defaults to 300,000 (300 seconds).
.TP
\fB--useflow\fP \fIflag\fP
If \fIflag\fP is a zero value, transport attempts to negotiate non-use of
explicit flow control.  If you do not include this option, its value defaults
to 1 (forces Class 2 to use explicit flow control).
.TP
\fB--ccitt\fP \fIflag\fP
If \fIflag\fP is a nonzero value, the transport protocol follows CCITT
conformance rules in regard to the classes proposed in CR TPDUs.  If either
Class 2 or 4 is requested by the user, Class 0 is proposed as an alternate
class.  If \fIflag\fP is zero, no alternate Class parameter is transmitted in
a CR TPDU.
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Suppress normal output.  Only the return code of the command is of interest.
This has the same effect as \fB--verbose=0\fP.
Enables quiet mode.  Only error messages are displayed.
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--debug\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the debugging verbosity.  Sets the debugging verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the debuggin verbosity by one
(1) when \fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the output verbosity.  Sets the output verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the output verbosity by one when
\fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The
.B tp24config
command takes no non-option arguments.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH OUTPUT FORMAT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE OUTPUT
.PP
The following is an example output when no command options are specified.
.PP
.nf
 NOTE: All timer values specified in number of milliseconds
Reference timer value (class 4 only):                 400000
Inactivity timer value (class 4 only):                960000
Retransmit timer value (class 4 only):                 30000
Window timer value (class 4 only):                    120000
Local acknowledgement delay (class 4 only):              512
Local flow control interval (all classes):               208
Max number of retransmissions (class 4 only):              4
Target window size (class 2 and 4):                        4
Initial window size (class 4 only):                        1
Maximum TPDU size (all classes):                         512
Maximum TIDU size (all classes):                         504
Checksum enable (class 4 only):                            0
Prefer use of extended sequence numbers (class 2 and 4):   1
Propose use of extended sequence numbers (class 2 and 4):  1
Disconnect timer value (CLTS only):                   120000
Optional TS1 timer (class 0/2):                        60000
Optional TS2 timer (class 2):                          60000
Disconnection timer value (class 2 and 4):              2000
Incoming network connection idle timer:               300000
Use of explicit flow control (class 2 only):               1
CCITT 1988 X.224 alternate class 0 enable (class 2 and 4): 1
Max number of transport connections (read/only):          48
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates the the option or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of normal output to
.I stdout
and diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.SS Error Messages
.PP
The following error messages can be issued:
.TP
.B could not open \fIdevice\fP
The TP0/2/4 driver has not been installed or the
.BR osid (8)
daemon is not running.
Make sure that the protocol stack has been initialized.  Stop and start the
OSI Transport Service (see
.BR osinetwork (8)).
If the stack cannot be started because of missing drivers, then reinstall the
software.
.TP
tp24config: unknown parameter \fIp\fP
You specified an option on the command line that was not recognized.  Check
the list of options and reenter the command line.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR osid (8),
.BR osinetwork (8),
.BR tp24stat (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B tp24config
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B tp24config
is compatible with
.IR "IRIS OSI"
.[
irixosi
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Options \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP, \fB-C\fP, and all long
options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B strxt
and should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP
and \fB-C\fP options.  They should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
Options \fB--help\fP and \fB--version\fP are provided for compatibility with
GNU coding standards; \fB--copying\fP, OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "IRIS OSI"
.[
irixosi
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B tp24config
first appeared in
.IR "IRIS OSI" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
