'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man8/tp4config.8.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2015  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TP4CONFIG 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@"
.SH NAME
.B tp4config
\- configure TP4 parameters
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fB\)tp4config\fP\ 'u
\fB\)tp4config\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fB\)tp4config\fP
{\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fB\)tp4config\fP
{\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fB\)tp4config\fP
{\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Sets the value for the specified TP4
.[
iso8073
.]
configuration parameters, then displays all parameter values.  Note that all
times are specified in milliseconds.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.SS Command Options
The following command options are mutually exclusive: only one command option
should be present on the command line at a time.  The exceptions are the
\fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP and \fB-C\fP options that can be specified alone, or with
any other option.
If no command option is supplied,
.B tp4config
displays all parameter values.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered, display usage information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered, display version information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered, display copying information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.\"
.SS Common Options
.PP
The following common options can be specified together with a command option.
It is not an error to specify options that are not necessary for the command
option with which they are specified.
Note that long options can be specified with a single leading dash for
compatibility.
Note also that all times are specified in milliseconds.
.TP
\fB--inactivity\fP \fItime\fP
Inactivity time; the amount of time that TP4 maintains a transport
connection without any data transmission before it terminates the connection.
If this option is not specified, it defaults to the value derived from the
product of the current retransmit count (\fB--n\fP option) and the window
size (\fB--window\fP option).
.TP
\fB--retransmit\fP \fItime\fP
The amount of time that TP4 initially waits without receiving an
acknowledgement of a TPDU it sent before it retransmits the TPDU.  (The
maximum number of times the same TPDU can be transmitted can be specified
with the \fB--n\fP option.)  TP4 automatically adjusts the value of this
parameter individually for each connection based on the performance of the
network.  If this option is not specified, it defaults to 2000 (2 seconds).
.TP
\fB--upper\fP \fItime\fP
The upper bound on the retransmit timer; the largest value to which TP4 can
set the retransmit time.  If this option is not specified, it defaults to
10000 (10 seconds).
.TP
\fB--lower\fP \fItime\fP
The lower bound on the retransmit timer; the smallest value to which TP4 can
set the retransmit time.  If this argument is not specified, it defaults to
10 (10 milliseconds).
.TP
\fB--window\fP \fItime\fP
The period of inactivity that can occur before TP4 sends the hello packet to
the peer entity with which a connection is established.  If you do not
include this option, its value defaults to 20000 (20 seconds).
.TP
\fB--ack\fP \fItime\fP
The local acknowledgement delay; the maximum amount of time TP4 can delay
acknowledgement of a TPDU it receives.  If you do not include this option,
its value defaults to 100 (0.1 seconds).
.TP
\fB--flow\fP \fItime\fP
If TP4 has no receive credit available, it checks the available resources
every \fItime\fP milliseconds until credit becomes available.  If you do not
include this option, its value defaults to 100 (0.1 seconds).
.TP
\fB--n\fP \fIiterations\fP
The maximum number of times a TPDU can be sent without being acknowledged.
If you do not include this option, its value defaults to 9.
.TP
\fB--credit\fP \fIvalue\fP
The maximum value to which TP4 can adjust the window size; that is, the
number of unacknowledged TPDUs that can be outstanding on a connection.  If
you do not include this option, its value defaults to 4.
.TP
\fB--initial\fP \fIvalue\fP
The initial window size when the connection is first established.  TP4 will
adjust this value up to the maximum automatically.  If you do not include
this option, its value defaults to 1.
.TP
\fB--maxtpdu\fP \fIvalue\fP
The maximum size of a TPDU.  It is recommended that you select one of the
following values: 128, 256, 512, 1024 or 2048 octets.  If you do not include
this option, its value defaults to 1024.  If you change the default, it is
important that you ensure that there are sufficient
.BR STREAMS (9)
buffers of the appropriate size.  Use the
.BR strstat (8)
utility to determine the number of buffers available in the size you specify,
and increase this number if necessary.

.B Note:
.B @PACKAGE@
does not limit buffer pools of various sizes, so the foregoing is not
applicable to
.BR "@PACKAGE@" .
.TP
\fB--checksum\fP \fIflag\fP
If \fIflag\fP is a nonzero value, the TPDU checksum feature is enabled; if
zero, it is disabled.  Enabling this feature slows down TP4 operation
significantly.  If you do not include this option, its value defaults to zero
(disabled).
.TP
\fB--propose\fP \fIflag\fP
If \fIflag\fP is a nonzero value, TP4 proposes to use extended TPDU
sequencing when it initiates a connect request (CR) TPDU; if zero, TP4
proposes normal sequencing.  If you do not include this option, its value
defaults to one (enabled).
.TP
\fB--decca\fP \fIflag\fP
If \fIflag\fP is a nonzero value, the DEC congestion avoidance flag is
enabled; if zero, the flag is disabled.  If you do not include this option,
its value defaults to zero (disabled).

Keep in mind that the DEC congestion avoidance algorithm is effective only if
all end and intermediate systems in a network use it.  Refer to the National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication 500-162 for
details on this algorithm.
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Suppress normal output.  Only the return code of the command is of interest.
This has the same effect as \fB--verbose=0\fP.
Enables quiet mode.  Only error messages are displayed.
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--debug\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the debugging verbosity.  Sets the debugging verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the debuggin verbosity by one
(1) when \fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the output verbosity.  Sets the output verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the output verbosity by one when
\fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The
.B tp4config
command takes no non-option arguments.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH OUTPUT FORMAT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE OUTPUT
.PP
The following is an example output when no command options are specified.
.PP
.nf
Inactivity time:                              400000
Initial retransmit timer:                       2000
Upper bound on retransmit timer:               25000
Lower bound on retransmit timer:                  50
Window timer value:                            20000
Local acknowledgment delay:                      100
Local flow control interval:                      10
Max number of transmissions:                      10
Target window size:                                4
Initial window size:                               1
Maximum TPDU size:                              1024
Maximum TIDU size:                              1016
Checksum enable:                                   0
Prefer use of extended sequence numbers:           1
Propose use of extended sequence numbers:          1
DEC Congestion avoidance enable:                   0
Max number of transport connections (read/only):  32
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates the the option or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of normal output to
.I stdout
and diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.SS Error Messages
.PP
The following error messages can be issued:
.TP
.B could not open \fIdevice\fP
The TP4/CLNP driver has not been installed.  Install it.
.TP
.B tp4config: unknown parameter \fIp\fP
An unrecognized option was specified on the command line.  Check the list of
options and reenter the command line.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR osid (8),
.BR osinetwork (8),
.BR tp4stat (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B tp4config
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B tp4config
is compatible with
.IR "IRIS OSI"
.[
irixosi
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Options \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP, \fB-C\fP, and all long
options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B strxt
and should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP
and \fB-C\fP options.  They should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
Options \fB--help\fP and \fB--version\fP are provided for compatibility with
GNU coding standards; \fB--copying\fP, OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "IRIS OSI"
.[
irixosi
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B tp4config
first appeared in
.IR "IRIS OSI" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
