'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) doc/man/man8/tp4stat.8.man
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2015  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TP4STAT 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@"
.SH NAME
.B tp4stat
\- read TP4 network management statistics
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fB\)tp4stat\fP\ 'u
\fB\)tp4stat\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fB\)tp4stat\fP
{\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fB\)tp4stat\fP
{\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fB\)tp4stat\fP
{\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Read the various statistics TP4 keeps concerning network operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The
.B tp24stat
command takes no non-option arguments.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.SS Command Options
The following command options are mutually exclusive: only one command option
should be present on the command line at a time.  The exceptions are the
\fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP and \fB-C\fP options that can be specified alone, or with
any other option.
When
.B tp4stat
is used without a command option, it displays statistics information and
exits.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered, display usage information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered, display version information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered, display copying information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options processing, and exit without taking further action.
.\"
.SS Common Options
.PP
The following common options can be specified together with a command option.
It is not an error to specify options that are not necessary for the command
option with which they are specified.
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Suppress normal output.  Only the return code of the command is of interest.
This has the same effect as \fB--verbose=0\fP.
Enables quiet mode.  Only error messages are displayed.
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--debug\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the debugging verbosity.  Sets the debugging verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the debuggin verbosity by one
(1) when \fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the output verbosity.  Sets the output verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the output verbosity by one when
\fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.\"
.\"
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
.PP
.TP
.B Number of open and established connections
The number of connections currently open and in the data transfer phase at
this system.
.TP
.B Total number of TPDU's transmitted
The total number of TPDUs sent from this system.  This number includes
retransmitted TPDUs.
.TP
.B Total number of TPDU's received
The number of correctly formatted TPDUs this system has received.
.TP
.B Number of DT TPDU's transmitted
The number of complete Data Transfer (DT) TPDUs this system has transmitted.
This number does not include retransmitted TPDUs.
.TP
.B Number of DT TPDU's received
The number of complete Data Transfer (DT) TPDUs this system has received.
.TP
.B Number of AK TPDU's transmitted
The number of Acknowledge (AK) TPDUs this system has transmitted, including
duplicated AK TPDUs.
.TP
.B Number of AK TPDU's received
The number of Acknowledge (AK) TPDUs this system has received, including
duplicates.
.TP
.B Number of ED TPDU's transmitted
The number of Expedite Data (ED) TPDUs this system has transmitted.  This
count does not include retransmitted ED TPDUs.
.TP
.B Number of ED TPDU's received
The number of Expedited Data (ED) TPDUs this system has received.
.TP
.B Number of UD TPDU's transmitted
The number of Unit Data (UD) TPDUs this system has transmitted.
.TP
.B Number of UD TPDU's received
The number of Unit Data (UD) TPDUs this system has received.
.TP
.B Total number of TPDU's retransmitted
The number of retransmitted Connect Request (CR), Connect Confirm (CC), Data
Transfer (DT), Expedite Data (ED), and Disconnect Request (DR) TPDUs this
system has retransmitted.
.TP
.B Number of DT TPDU's retransmitted
The number of Data Transfer (DT) TPDUs this system has retransmitted.
.TP
.B Number of ED TPDU's retransmitted
The number of Expedited Data (ED) TPDUs this system has retransmitted.
.TP
.B Number of receive window closures
The number of credit reductions in which the window is closed after the
reduction.
.TP
.B Number of credit reductions
The number of credit reductions in which the window remains open after the
reduction.
.TP
.B Number of duplicate DT TPDU's received
The number of duplicate Data Transfer (DT) TPDUs this system has received and
discarded.
.TP
.B Number of duplicate ED TPDU's received
The number of duplicate Expedite Data (ED) TPDUs this system has received and
discarded.
.TP
.B Number of out of window DT TPDU's received
The number of times this system has received a Data Transfer (DT) TPDU with a
sequence number higher than the upper window edge.
.TP
.B Number of out of sequence AK TPDU's rcvd
The number of times this system has received an out-of-sequence Acknowledge
(AK) TPDU.  This counter does not include duplicate AK TPDUs.
.TP
.B Successfully established incoming connections
The number of times this system has received a Connect Request (CR) TPDU that
resulted in an established connection.
.TP
.B Successfully established outgoing connections
The number of times this system has transmitted a Connect Request (CR) TPDU
that result in an established connection.
.TP
.B Number of rejected incoming connnections
The number of times this system has received a Connect Request (CR) TPDU that
did not result in an established connection.
.TP
.B Number of rejected outgoing connections
The number of times this system has transmitted a Connect Request (CR) TPDU
that did not result in an established connection.
.TP
.B Number of user rejected incoming connections
The number of times a TSU of this system has rejected an incoming connection.
.TP
.B Incoming CR TPDU's rejected due to configuration
The number of times this system has received a Connect Request (CR) TPDU, and
responded to it with a Disconnect Request (DR) TPDU.  This counter is
incremented when the transport reason code returned is 2, 3, 130, 131, 132,
135 or 136.
.TP
.B Outgoing CR TPDU's rejected due to configuration
The number of times the system has received a Disconnect Request (DR) TPDU in
response to a Connection Request (CR) TPDU it transmitted.  This counter s
incremented when the transport reason code s 2, 3, 130, 131, 132, 135 or 136.
The most likely cause of this error is that no TSU is bound to the address
received in the Connect Request (CR) TPDU.
.TP
.B Incoming CR TPDU's rejected due to protocol error
The number of times the system received a Disconnect Request (DR) or Error
Report (ER) TPDU in response to a Connect Request (CR) TPDU.  This counter is
incremented when the transport reason code returned is 0, 133 or 138.
.TP
.B Outgoing CR TPDU's rejected due to protocol error
The number of times the system received a Disconnect Request (DR) or Error
Report (ER) TPDU in response to a Connect Request (CR) TPDU.  This counter is
incremented when the transport reason code is 0, 133 or 138.
.TP
.B Number of TPDU transmission timeouts
The number of instances in which the system has retransmitted a TPDU the maximum
number of times without receiving any response.
.TP
.B Number of inactivity timeouts
The number of times a transport state machine in the system has timed out
because no TPDUs were received on the connection.
.TP
.B Number of received TPDUs causing a protocol error
The number of TPDUs the system receives that contain a protocol error and
cause the transport protocol to transmit a Disconnect Request (DR) TPDU.
This TPDU will contain the tansport reason code 133.
.TP
.B Number of DR or ER TPDU received indicating a protocol error
The number of times the system has received a Disconnect Request (DR) or
Error Request (ER) TPDU indicating that a TPDU that the system transmitted
previously (other than a CR TPDU) contained a protocol error.
.TP
.B Number of TPDU's with invalid checksum
The number of times the system discarded a TPDU because the checksum
indicated that the TPDU was bad.
.TP
.B Number of received TPDU's ignored (bad header)
The number of times the system received a TPDU with an incorrect header.
.TP
.B Number of received and ignored UD TPDUs
The number of times the system received a Unit Data (UD) TPDU and discarded
it for any reason.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates the the option or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of normal output to
.I stdout
and diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.SS Error Messages
.PP
The following error messages can be issued:
.TP
.B could not open \fIdevice\fP
The TP4/CLNP driver has not been installed.  Install it.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR osid (8),
.BR osinetwork (8),
.BR tp4config (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B tp4stat
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B tp4stat
is compatible with
.IR "IRIS OSI"
.[
irixosi
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Options \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP, \fB-C\fP, and all long
options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B strxt
and should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP
and \fB-C\fP options.  They should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
Options \fB--help\fP and \fB--version\fP are provided for compatibility with
GNU coding standards; \fB--copying\fP, OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "IRIS OSI"
.[
irixosi
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B tp4stat
first appeared in
.IR "IRIS OSI" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
