'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: wanmap.8.man,v 1.1.2.2 2011-02-07 02:18:33 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2011  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual under
.\" the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later
.\" version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
.\" Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
.\" license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
.\" License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH
.\" CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual
.\" page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from the
.\" use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
.\" behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions
.\" apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense
.\" ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under
.\" paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition
.\" Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the Government
.\" is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the license rights
.\" customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the Software is
.\" supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than DoD, it is
.\" classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the Government's rights
.\" in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in the
.\" cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the
.\" FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2011-02-07 02:18:33 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: wanmap.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.2  2011-02-07 02:18:33  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore CGIQOSTU
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH WANMAP 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Admin Commands"
.SH NAME
.B wanmap
\- configure WAN remote and interface address mapping
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fB\)wanmap\fP\ 'u
\fB\)wanmap\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
[{\fB-G\fP|\fB--get\fP}]
{\fB-s\fP|\fB--subnet\fP[\fB=\fP]}\fIsubnetid\fP
[{\fB-d\fP|\fB--device\fP[\fB=\fP]}\fIdevicename\fP]
[\fIfilename\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fB\)wanmap\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
{\fB-P\fP|\fB--load\fP}
{\fB-s\fP|\fB--subnet\fP[\fB=\fP]}\fIsubnetid\fP
[{\fB-d\fP|\fB--device\fP[\fB=\fP]}\fIdevicename\fP]
[\fIfilename\fP]
.HP
\fB\)wanmap\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
{\fB-Z\fP|\fB--zero\fP}
{\fB-s\fP|\fB--subnet\fP[\fB=\fP]}\fIsubnetid\fP
[{\fB-d\fP|\fB--device\fP[\fB=\fP]}\fIdevicename\fP]
[\fIfilename\fP]
.HP
\fB\)wanmap\fP
{\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fB\)wanmap\fP
{\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fB\)wanmap\fP
{\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Configure WAN remote and interface address mapping.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB-G\fP, \fB--get\fP
Display the address mappings identified by the \fIsubnet_id\fP argument to the
\fB-s\fP option.  The \fB-s\fP option must be specified.
.TP
\fB-P\fP, \fB--load\fP
Load the address mappings in the file specified by the \fIfilename\fP argument.
\fIfilename\fP argument may be specified, or allowed to default.
.TP
\fB-Z\fP, \fB--zero\fP
Zero the address mappings (that is, remove all address mappings) from the WAN
device.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered, display usage information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options procressing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered, display version information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options procressing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered, display copying information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options procressing, and exit without taking further action.
.\"
.SS Common Options
.PP
The following common options can be specified together along with a command
option.  It is not an error to specify options that are not necessary for the
command option with which they are specified.
.TP
\fB-s\fP, \fB--subnet\fP \fIsubnet_id\fP
Specify the subnetwork, \fIsubnet_id\fP, for which to retrieve, load or zero
address mappings.
The address mappings are retrieved for the \fB-G\fP option, loaded for the
\fB-P\fP option, and zeroed for the \fB-Z\fP option.
This option must be specified whenever the \fB-G\fP, \fB-P\fP or \fB-Z\fP option
is specified.
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--device\fP \fIdevicename\fP
Specify the device name upon which to operate.  When this option is not
specified, or \fIdevicename\fP is not given, the default is
.BR /dev/wans " or " /dev/streams/wans ,
whichever opens successfully first.
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Suppress normal output.  Only the return code of the command is of interest.
This has the same effect as \fB--verbose=0\fP.
.TP
\fB--debug\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the debugging verbosity.  Sets the debugging verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the debug verbosity by one when
\fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the output verbosity.  Sets the output verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the output verbosity by one when
\fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
\fIfilename\fP
Specify the configuration file that holds mapping information to apply to the
device when the \fB-P\fP command option is also specified.  When this option
is not specified, or the \fIfilename\fP is not given, the default is
.BR @configdir@/interfacemap/null.wmap .
For the format of this file, see \*(lq\fIFILE FORMAT\fP\*(rq, below.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILE FORMAT
.PP
The file format is described in the
.BR wanmapconf (5)
manual page.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of normal output to
.I stdout
and diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @configdir@/@PACKAGE@/interfacemap/null.wmap
The default configuration file for the WAN device.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/wans ", " /dev/streams/wans
The default WAN device.  See
.BR ixe (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR wan (4),
.BR wanmapconf (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B wanmap
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B wanmap
is compatible with
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixlink
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
and systems based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Options \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP, \fB-C\fP, and all long
options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B wanmap
and should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR -e ", " -n ", " -q ", " -v ", " -h ", " -V ", " -C ,
and all long options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.BR wanmap
and will not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP
and \fB-C\fP options.  They should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
Options \fB--help\fP and \fB--version\fP are provided for compatibility with
GNU coding standards; \fB--copying\fP, OpenSS7 coding standards.
.IP \(em
Other implementations document 127 as the maximum window size.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
permits window sizes up to 32767.
.PP
For additional compatibility considerations, see
.BR wan (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "SunLink X.25" ,
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B wanmap
first appeared in
.IR "Spider WAN" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
