'\" rtp
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: x25file.8.man,v 1.1.2.1 2009-06-21 10:37:51 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008-2009  Monavacon Limited <http://www.monavacon.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2001  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
.\" Documentation License".
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy and distribute this manual without modification,
.\" for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided
.\" that both the above copyright notice and this permission notice appears
.\" in all copies and that the name of OpenSS7 Corporation not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaning to distribution of this documentation
.\" or its contents without specific, written prior permission.  OpenSS7
.\" Corporation makes no representation about the suitability of this manual
.\" for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
.\" warranty.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to process this file through groff and print the
.\" results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
.\" notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
.\" (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
.\"
.\" OPENSS7 CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS MANUAL
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE
.\" DOCUMENT ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE, OR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
.\" SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ON ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
.\" TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL OPENSS7 CORPORATION BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER
.\" IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE PERFORMANCE
.\" OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTENTS THEREOF.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not have
.\" taken the same level of care in the production of this manual, which is
.\" licensed free of charge, as they might when working professionally.  The
.\" author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
.\" source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2009-06-21 10:37:51 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: x25file.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2009-06-21 10:37:51  brian
.\" - added files to new distro
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 40
search-ignore T
.R2
.so openss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH X25FILE 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Admin Commands"
.SH NAME
.B x25file
\- generate config file for a running X.25 link
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.nh
.HP \w'\fB\)x25file\fP\ 'u
\fB\)x25file\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fB\)x25file\fP
{\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fB\)x25file\fP
{\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fB\)x25file\fP
{\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.ad b
.hy
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Displays per protocol statistics.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.SS Command Options
.PP
The following command options are mutually exclusive: only one command option
should be present on the command line at a time.  The exceptions are the
\fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP and \fB-C\fP options that can be specified alone, or with
any other option.
.TP
\fB-p\fP, \fB--protocol\fP \fIprotocol\fP
Shows statistics for a specified protocol or list of protocols.  Protocol may
be one of
.BR ixe ", " lapb ", " llc ", " mlp ", " wan ", " x25 " or " all .
.B all
is used to get statistics for all protocols.
.TP
\fB-g\fP, \fB--global\fP
Display statistics global to the specified protocols.  No global statistics
are displayed for the
.B wan
level.
.TP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--link\fP \fIlink\fP
Display statistics on a per-link basis.
.TP
\fB-L\fP, \fB--links\fP
Display statistics for all links.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--vc\fP \fIvc\fP
When x25 protocol is used, display statistics on a per-VC basis.  The VC can
be an actual VC number or a list of VCs separated by commas, or a range of
VCs: VC1-VC2.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--vcs\fP
When x25 protocol is used, display statistics relating to all VCs.
.TP
\fB-s\fP, \fB--symbolic\fP
Display addresses symbolically whenever possible.
.TP
\fB-a\fP, \fB--active\fP
When used with \fB-v\fP or \fB-V\fP options, prints abbreviated statistics
for active VCs.
.TP
\fB-F\fP, \fB--full\fP
Display all statistics currently available.
.TP
\fB-z\fP, \fB--reset\fP
Resets the statistics.  The options \fB-g\fP, \fB-p\fP, \fB-l\fP, \fB-L\fP,
\fB-v\fP, \fB-V\fP, apply as for displaying the statistics.  Note: this
option is only availabel to the super-user.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered, display usage information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options procressing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered, display version information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options procressing, and exit without taking further action.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered, display copying information to
.IR stdout ,
stop options procressing, and exit without taking further action.
.\"
.SS Common Options
.PP
The following common options can be specified together along with a command
option.  It is not an error to specify options that are not necessary for the
command option with which they are specified.
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Suppress normal output.  Only the return code of the command is of interest.
This has the same effect as \fB--verbose=0\fP.
.TP
\fB--debug\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the debugging verbosity.  Sets the debugging verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the debug verbosity by one when
\fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fIlevel\fP]
Specify or increase the output verbosity.  Sets the output verbosity to
\fIlevel\fP, when given, or simply increases the output verbosity by one when
\fIlevel\fP is not given.  This option can be repeated.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The
.I x25file
command takes no non-option arguments.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILE FORMAT
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option or argument syntax was in error and a
diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of normal output to
.I stdout
and diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR X25 (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B x25file
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B x25file
is compatible with
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
and systems based on
.IR "Spider X.25" ,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Options \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP, \fB-C\fP, and all long
options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B x25file
and should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR -e ", " -n ", " -q ", " -v ", " -h ", " -V ", " -C ,
and all long options, are specific to this
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.BR x25file
and will not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
No other implementation documents the \fB-q\fP, \fB-v\fP, \fB-h\fP, \fB-V\fP
and \fB-C\fP options.  They should not be used by portable command scripts.
.IP \(em
Options \fB--help\fP and \fB--version\fP are provided for compatibility with
GNU coding standards; \fB--copying\fP, OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "AIXlink/X.25" ,
.[
aixx25
.]
.IR "HP-UX" ,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR "IRIS SX.25" ,
.[
sx25
.]
.IR "PT X.25" ,
.[
ptx25
.]
.IR "RadiSys WAN" ,
.[
radwan
.]
.IR "SBE X.25" ,
.[
sbex25
.]
.IR "SunLink X.25" ,
.IR "Solstice X.25" ,
.[
solx25ag
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B x25file
first appeared in
.IR "Spider X.25" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
.\" vim: ft=nroff sw=4 noet nocin nosi com=b\:.\\\" fo+=tcqlorn tw=77
