'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: fattach.2.man,v 0.9.2.12 2005/05/11 20:08:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/11 20:08:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH FATTACH 2 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B fattach
\- name a \fISTREAMS\fR special file
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int fattach(int " fd ", const char *" path );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the file descriptor to attach to a path.
.TP
.I path
the filesystem path to which to attach the file descriptor.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B fattach
attaches the open
.I STREAMS
special device file described by the file descriptor
.I fd
to the filesystem path specified by
.IR path .
All file operations on file descriptors subsequently opened on
.IR path
will operate on the attached
.I STREAMS
special device file instead of the file or directory that origianally corresponded to
.IR path .
This continues until the
.I STREAMS
special device file is detached from
.I path
using the
.BR fdetach (3)
utility.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR fattach ()
will return zero (0).
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR fattach ()
will return -1 and set
.I errno
as described under
.RB \(lq ERRORS \(rq,
below.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
.RB [ EACCES ]
Write access to the file specified by
.I path
is not allowed, or one of the directories in
.I path
did not allow search (execute) permission.
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
The file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
The file specified by
.I path
is currently a mount point or already has a
.I STREAMS
special file attached to it.
.TP
.RB [ ELOOP ]
Too many symbolic links were encountered resolving
.IR path .
.TP
.RB [ ENAMETOOLONG ]
.I path
was too long or a resolved symbolic link contained a pathname that was too
long.
.TP
.RB [ ENOENT ]
A directory component in
.I path
does not exists or is a dangling symbolic link.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTDIR ]
A component used as a directory in
.I path
is not a directory.
.TP
.RB [ EPERM ]
The effective user ID of the process is not the owner of the file specified by
.I path
and the process does not have appropriate privileges.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
does not refer to a
.I STREAMS
special file.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.SS Multi-Threading
.PP
.BR fattach ()
is thread-safe; however, performing
.BR fattach ()
on a filesystem path will affect other processes or thread using that path.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR fattach (8),
.BR fdetach (3),
.BR fdetach (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR fattach ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR fattach ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR LiS ,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR fattach ()
can be performed on any file to which the caller has ownership, write
permission and sufficient privilege to execute
.BR fattach ().
.IP \(em
Under
.BR LiS ,
root privilege or
.B CAP_SYS_ADMIN
is required.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
does not have this restriction.
.IP \(em
.BR fattach ()
makes no additional limitation on the number of
.I STREAMS
files that are attached.
.IP \(em
Under
.BR LiS ,
.BR fattach ()
limits number of
.I STREAMS
files attached to less than 256, because that is the maximum number of unnamed
devices allowed by
.BR mount (2).
The same is true for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
provide a system call for
.I __NR_fattach
that is used to implement this system call.  (glibc has prototypes for this system call.)
In addition,
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
recognizes the
.B I_LIS_FATTACH
.BR streamio (7)
input-output control used by LiS to emulate the
.I __NR_fattach
system call, permitting LiS libraries to be used with
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR SVID ,
.[
svid
.]
.BR XID ,
.[
xbd5
.]
.BR SUSv2 ,
.[
susv2
.]
.BR SUSv3 ,
.[
susv3
.]
.BR "POSIX 1003.1/2003" ;
.[
susv3
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR fattach ()
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
