'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: fattach.2,v 0.9.2.1 2004/02/29 19:06:40 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/02/29 19:06:40 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH FATTACH 2 "$Date: 2004/02/29 19:06:40 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS System Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B fattach
\- name a \fISTREAMS\fR special file
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int fattach(int " fd ", const char *" path );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
.TP
.I path
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP 12
.RB [ EACCES ]
Write access to the file specified by
.I path
is not allowed, or one of the directories in
.I path
did not allow search (execute) permission.
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
The file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
The file specified by
.I path
is currently a mount point or already has a
.I STREAMS
special file attached to it.
.TP
.RB [ ELOOP ]
Too many symbolic links were encountered resolving
.IR path .
.TP
.RB [ ENAMETOOLONG ]
.I path
was too long or a resolved symbolic link contained a pathname that was too
long.
.TP
.RB [ ENOENT ]
A directory component in
.I path
does not exists or is a dangling symbolic link.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTDIR ]
A component used as a directory in
.I path
is not a directory.
.TP
.RB [ EPERM ]
The effective user ID of the process is not the owner of the file specified by
.I path
and the process does not have appropriate privileges.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
does not refer to a
.I STREAMS
special file.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR fattach ()
is compatible with
.BR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
.BR Solaris \(rg,
.BR UnixWare \(rg
and
.BR LiS ,
.[
LiS
.]
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em 4
.BR fattach ()
can be performed on any file to which the caller has ownership, write
permission and sufficient privilege to execute
.BR fattach ().
Under
.BR LiS ,
root privilege or
.B CAP_SYS_ADMIN
is required.
.IP \(em 4
.BR fattach ()
makes no additional limitation on the number of
.I STREAMS
files that are attached.
Under
.BR LiS ,
.BR fattach ()
limits number of
.I STREAMS
files attached to less than 256, because that is the maximum number of unnamed
devices allowed by
.BR mount (2).
.IP \(em 4
.IP \(em 4
.IP \(em 4
.IP \(em 4
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR SVID ,
.[
svid
.]
.BR XID ,
.[
xbd5
.]
.BR SUSv2 ,
.[
susv2
.]
.BR SUSv3 ,
.[
susv3
.]
.BR "POSIX 1003.1/2003" ;
.[
POSIX 1003.1/2003
.]
.BR Solaris \(rg
and
.BR UnixWare \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR fattach ()
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
sv4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
