'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: fdetach.2.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/10/05 12:02:23 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/05 12:02:23 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: fdetach.2.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/05 12:02:23  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.15  2006/04/05 09:43:41  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH FDETACH 2 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B fdetach
\- unname a \fISTREAMS\fR special file
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int fdetach(const char *" path );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I path
the filesystem path from which to detach the
.I STREAMS
special file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR fdetach ()
detaches the open
.I STREAMS
special device file that was previously attached to path,
.IR path ,
in the filesystem with
.BR fattach (2).
All file operations on file descriptors subsequently opened on
.IR path
will operate on the file or directory that originally corresponded to
.IR path .
This continues until the
.I STREAMS
special file is attached again to
.I path
using the
.BR fattach (2)
utility.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR fdetach ()
will return zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR fdetach ()
will return minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and set
.IR errno (3)
as described under
.RB \(lq ERRORS \(rq,
below.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP \w'[\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ EACCES ]
Write access to the file specified by
.I path
is not allowed, or one of the directories in
.I path
did not allow search (execute) permission.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The
.I path
argument names a file that is not currently attached (has not had
.BR fattach (2)
called for it).
.TP
.RB [ ELOOP ]
Symbolic links encountered resolving
.I path
form a loop, or too many (greater than
.RB { SYMLOOP_MAX })
symbolic links were encountered resolving
.IR path .
.TP
.RB [ ENAMETOOLONG ]
.I path
was too long or a resolved symbolic link contained a pathname that was too
long.
.TP
.RB [ ENOENT ]
A directory component in
.I path
does not exists or is a dangling symbolic link.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTDIR ]
A component used as a directory in
.I path
is not a directory.
.TP
.RB [ EPERM ]
The effective user ID of the process is not the owner of the file specified by
.I path
and the process does not have appropriate privileges.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.SS Multi-Threading
.PP
.BR fdetach ()
is thread-safe; however, performing
.BR fdetach ()
on a filesystem path will affect other processes or thread using that path.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR fdetach (3p),
.BR fdetach (8),
.BR fattach (3),
.BR fdetach (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR fdetach ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR fdetach ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR LiS ,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR fdetach ()
can be performed on any file to which the caller has ownership, write
permission and sufficient privilege to execute
.BR fdetach ().
.IP \(em
Under
.BR LiS ,
root privilege or
.B CAP_SYS_ADMIN
is required.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
does not have this restriction.
.IP \(em
.BR fdetach ()
makes no additional limitation on the number of
.I STREAMS
files that are attached.
.IP \(em
Under
.BR LiS ,
.BR fdetach ()
limits number of
.I STREAMS
files attached to less than 256, because that is the maximum number of unnamed
devices allowed by
.BR mount (2).
The same is true for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provide a system call for
.I __NR_fattach
that is used to implement this system call.  (glibc has prototypes for this system call.)
In addition,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
recognizes the
.B I_LIS_FDETACH
.BR streamio (7)
input-output control used by
.I LiS
to emulate the
.I __NR_fattach
system call, permitting
.I LiS
libraries to be used with
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR SVID ,
.[
svid
.]
.BR XID ,
.[
xbd5
.]
.BR SUSv2 ,
.[
susv2
.]
.BR SUSv3 ,
.[
susv3
.]
.BR "POSIX 1003.1/2003" ;
.[
susv3
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR fdetach ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
