'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: isastream.2.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/10/05 12:02:23 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/05 12:02:23 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: isastream.2.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/05 12:02:23  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.15  2006/04/05 09:43:41  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH ISASTREAM 2 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B isastream
\- test for a \fISTREAMS\fR special file
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int isastream(int " fd );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the file descriptor to test.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR isastream ()
tests whether the open file associated with the file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
is a
.I STREAMS
special file.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR isastream ()
is normally used by an applications program to determine whether
.I STREAMS
input-output controls,
.BR streamio (7),
are possible on a specific special file,
.IR fd .
For example,
.BR isastream ()
can be used to determine whether the pipe returned by a call to
.BR pipe (2s)
is a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe or a
.IR "SVR 3" -style
pipe.
Also,
.BR isastream ()
can be used to determine whether the pseudo-terminal returned by a call to
.BR openpt (3tty)
is a
.IR STREAMS -based
master pseudo-terminal or an
.IR "SVR 3" -style
pseudo-terminal.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
.BR isastream ()
returns true,
.RB ( 1 ),
if the file associated with
.IR fd
is a
.I STREAMS
special file; it return false,
.RB ( 0 ),
if it is not, and returns
minus one
.RB ( -1 ),
on failure and sets
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR isastream ()
fails, it returns minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[\fBEBADF\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ EBADF ]
The argument,
.IR fd ,
is not associted with an open file.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.SS Multi-Threading
.PP
.BR isastream ()
is thread-safe.
.BR isastream ()
does not contain an asynchrnous thread cancellation point, in accordance with
POSIX.
.[
susv3
.]
Asynchronous thread cancellation is deferred across the call.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B isastream ()
is system call emulated by the
.BR libstreams (3)
library by calling the
.BR I_ISASTREAM (7)
.I STREAMS
input-output control on
.IR fd ,
and adjusting the return value appropriately.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR libstreams (3),
.BR isastream (3p),
.BR I_ISASTREAM (7),
.BR streamio (7),
.IR errno (3),
.BR pipe (2s),
.BR openpt (3tty),
.BR test-streams (8),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR isastream ()
has no known bugs.
Behaviour is validated using the
.BR test-streams (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
conformance test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR isastream ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR isastream ()
is implemented as a
.I STREAMS
input-output control instead of a system call.  This should not affect
portablility.
.IP \(em
.BR isastream ()
conforms as closely as possible to the
.I POSIX/SUSv3
.[
susv3
.]
specifications.  Where a specific
.IR "SVR 4.2" -based
implementation differs from
.IR POSIX/SUSv3 ,
there will be differences with this
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
application programs will expect conformance to
.IR POSIX/SUSv3 .
.PP
If your
.B Linux
system is equipped with
.I OpenGroup
manual pages, see
.BR isastream (3p)
for the equivalent
.IR POSIX/SUSv3
reference page.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR SVID ,
.[
svid
.]
.BR XID ,
.[
xbd5
.]
.BR SUSv2 ,
.[
susv2
.]
.BR SUSv3 ,
.[
susv3
.]
.BR "POSIX 1003.1/2003" ;
.[
susv3
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
documentation.
.PP
Conformance is testsed using the
.BR test-streams (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
conformance test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR isastream ()
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
