'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: pipe.2s.man,v 0.9.2.15 2006/10/05 12:16:51 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/05 12:16:51 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: pipe.2s.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.15  2006/10/05 12:16:51  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.14  2006/04/05 09:43:42  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH PIPE 2 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B pipe, s_pipe
\- create a \fISTREAMS\fR \fIpipe\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <unistd.h>
.HP
.BI "int pipe(int " filedes "[2]);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I filedes
A pointer to an array of two file descriptors into which to return the file
descriptor for each end of the pipe.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR pipe ()
and
.BR s_pipe ()
opens a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe.
All the way through the
.B Linux
kernel series including 2.6, the
.BR pipe ()
system call provided by glibc will return a
.RB non- STREAMS -based
pipe.
.RB Non- STREAMS -based
pipes are
.I SVR 3
.[
svr3
.]
style unidirectional pipes that are not implemented using
.IR STREAMS .
Many commercial
.IR UNIX \(rg
offerings also do not necessarily directly provide
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes in response to the
.BR pipe ()
system call.
.PP
The
.BR libstreams "(3) and " libLiS (3)
libraries provide a
.BR pipe ()
and
.BR s_pipe ()
library call that always provide
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes in contrast to glibc that always provides
.IR "SVR 3" -style
.[
svr3
.]
pipes.
.PP
The characteristics of bi-directional
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes, by comparison to
.IR "SVR 3" -style
.[
svr3
.]
pipes are as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes are bi-directional.  Both sides are opened for both read and write.
Data written to one end of the pipe can be read by the other.  Both ends of
the pipe can have data written and read.
.IP \(bu
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes can have modules pushed and popped from either side of the pipe.
However, before pushing a
.I STREAMS
module on either side of the
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe, the
.BR pipemod (4)
module should be pushed on one end of the
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe to reverse the sens of the
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
bits for proper flushing of the pipe.  (Pushing
.BR pipemod (4)
is not necessary if no other modules are to be pushed over either end of the
pipe.)
.IP \(bu
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes can have the
.BR connld (4)
module pushed onto one end of the pipe.
.IP \(bu
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes can be attached to an object in a filesystem using
.BR fattach (2).
.IP \(bu
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes have controllable flow control and minimum and maximum packet size
characteristics.
.IP \(bu
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes permit the use of
.BR getmsg "(2), " getpmsg "(2s), " putmsg "(2) and " putpmsg (2s)
system calls on the pipe ends.  This permits control information as well as
data to be passed across the pipe.
.IP \(bu
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes can pass file descriptors and credentials from one end to the other using
.BR I_SENDFD (7)
and
.BR I_RECVFD (7).
.IP \(bu
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes permit the use of
.BR streamio (7)
.I STREAMS
input-output controls on either pipe end.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes should be used in the following situations:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Bi-directional data transfer is desired.
.IP \(bu
Additional capabilities, such as the ability to preserve record boundardies
across the pipe, transfer zero-length messages, pass ancilliary control
information, or pass file descriptors, are desired.
.IP \(bu
The ability to link a pipe end beneath a multiplexing driver,
.BR I_LINK (7),
or attaching one end to a path in the file system,
.BR fattach (2),
is desired.
.IP \(bu
Servers based on pipes using
.BR connld (4)
and
.BR fattach (2)
is to be supported.
.IP \(bu
Other
.I STREAMS
facilities are desired in association with a pipe end.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion,
.BR pipe ()
returns zero
.RB ( 0 );
on failure, it returns
minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When it fails,
.BR pipe ()
returns minus one
.RB ( -1 ),
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[\fBENOMEM\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ EMFILE ]
More than
.RB { OPEN_MAX }
minus two file descriptors are already in use by the calling process.
.TP
.RB [ ENFILE ]
The system-wide maximum number of simultaneous open file descriptors would be
exceeded.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
Memory could not be allocated for kernel datastructures required to represent
the pipe.
.TP
.RB [ ENODEV ]
The
.BR specfs (5)
file system is not available on the system.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
A suitable pipe device is not available on the system.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe have been shown to match or even outperform
.B Linux
.IR "SVR 3" -style
pipes, therefore, no performance loss is realized by using a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe over a
.B Linux
native pipe.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
There are several ways of implementing 
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides two or three approaches.  See
.BR pipe (4)
for additional information.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
See
.BR connld (4)
for an example.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR pipe (4),
.BR fifo (4),
.BR connld (4),
.BR pipemod (4),
.BR libstreams "(3), " libLiS (3),
.BR M_FLUSH (9),
.BR getmsg "(2), " getpmsg "(2s), " putmsg "(2), " putpmsg (2s),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR fattach (2),
.IR errno (3),
.BR specfs (5),
.BR I_SENDFD (7),
.BR I_RECVFD (7),
.BR I_LINK (7),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR test-pipe (8),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR pipe "() and " s_pipe ()
have no known bugs.
.PP
Validated behaviour is provided by the
.BR test-pipe (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR pipe "() and " s_pipe ()
are compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
permits each end of a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe to be linked under a multiplexing driver using the
.BR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
.I STREAMS
input-output controls described in
.BR streamio (7).
This is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
specific feature provided for special test scenarios: many other
implementations will not permit any pipe end or FIFO to be linked under a
multiplexing driver.
.IP ""
Portable applications will not attempt to link a pipe end under a multiplexing
driver.
.IP \(em
It is normally possible to determine whether a pipe obtained from the
.BR pipe ()
call is a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe or a
.IR "SVR 3" -style
pipe by testing the file flags with
.BR fcntl (2).
If the file flags indicate that both end are open for read and write, then the
pipe is bi-directional and is a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe.  If the file flags indicates the one end is open for read and the other
for write, then the pipe is uni-directional and is a
.IR "SVR 3" -style
pipe.
.IP ""
Portable applications will not assume that a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe has been returned from the
.BR pipe ()
call.  A portable application may assume that
.BR s_pipe (),
or one of the other methods described in
.BR pipe (4),
returns a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR SVID ,
.[
svid
.]
.BR XID ,
.[
xbd5
.]
.BR SUSv2 ,
.[
susv2
.]
.BR SUSv3 ,
.[
susv3
.]
.BR "POSIX 1003.1/2003" ;
.[
susv3
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
documentation.
.PP
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-pipe (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR pipe ()
first appeared in
.IR "UNIX\(rg\ System V Release 3 (SVR3)"
.[
svr3
.]
and was later replaced with a
.IR STREAMS -based
implementation in
.IR "UNIX\(rg\ System V Release 4 (SVR4)" .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
