'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: poll.2s.man,v 0.9.2.10 2005/11/22 11:56:58 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/22 11:56:58 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH POLL 2 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B poll
\- wait for some event on a \fISTREAMS\fP special file
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/poll.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int poll(struct pollfd *" fds ", unsigned int " nfds ", int " timeout );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fds
a pointer to an array of
.B pollfd
structures describing the file descriptors and events to be polled.
.TP
.I nfds
the number of
.B pollfd
structures in the
.I fds
array.
.TP
.I timeout
a timeout, in milliseconds.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR poll ()
is called with a specification of the file descriptors and events to detect on those file
descriptors in the array pointed to by
.I fds .
The number of file descriptors to poll is provided in
.I nfds .
A time interval after which
.BR poll ()
will return if no other event is detected can be specified in milliseconds in the
.I timeout
argument.
.PP
Each file descriptor is described by a
.B pollfd
structure element in the array pointed to by the
.I fds
argument.
Each structure element contains the file descriptor to monitor in the
.I fd
member, and the event flags specifying the events to detect in the
.I events
member.  The
.I revents
is used by
.BR poll ()
to return the detected events, and is set for each element in the array prior to return.
.PP
The
.B pollfd
structure has members as follows:
.nf
\fC\s-2
struct pollfd {
        int fd;
        short events;
        short revents;
};
\s+2\fP
.fi
.TP
.I fd
specifies a file descriptor to poll.
.TP
.I events
specifies the events on this file descriptor that will cause
.BR poll ()
to exit.
See
.RI \*(lq EVENTS \*(rq,
below.
.TP
.I revents
specifies the status of the file descriptor upon successful return from
.BR poll .
See
.RI \*(lq EVENTS \*(rq,
below.
.\"
.\"
.SS EVENTS
.PP
Events that can be specified in the
.I events
member or indicated in the
.I revents
member are as follows:
.TP \w'POLLWRNORM\(em'u
.B POLLIN
Normal-priority data may be read from
.I fd
without blocking.
For
.IR STREAMS (4)
special files, this event occurs when a
.BR M_PROTO (9)
or
.BR M_DATA (9)
message (in any band) arrives at the stream head and is generated even when the
data available is of zero length.
See
.BR getmsg (2s).
.TP
.B POLLPRI
High-priority data may be read from
.I fd
without blocking.
For
.IR STREAMS (4)
special files, this event occurs when a
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
and
.BR M_DATA (9)
message arrives at the stream head and is generated even when the data available
is of zero length.
.TP
.B POLLOUT
Normal (band 0) data may be written to
.I fd
without blocking.
For
.IR STREAMS (4)
special files, this event occurs when band zero high water mark thresholds have
not been exceeded, or when band zero becomes back-enabled (falls below the low
water mark threshold).
.TP
.B POLLRDNORM
Normal (band 0) data may be read from
.I fd
without blocking.
For
.IR STREAMS (4)
special files, this event occurs when a
.BR M_PROTO (9)
or
.BR M_DATA (9)
message (in band zero (0)) arrives at the stream head and is generated even when
the data available is of zero length.
See
.BR getmsg (2s).
.TP
.B POLLRDBAND
Priority (band > 0) data may be read from
.I fd
without blocking.
For
.IR STREAMS (4)
special files, this event occurs when a
.BR M_PROTO (9)
or
.BR M_DATA (9)
message (in a band greater than zero) arrives at the stream head and is
generated even when the data available is of zero length.
See
.BR getpmsg (2s).
.TP
.B POLLWRNORM
Normal (band 0) data may be written to
.I fd
without blocking.
For
.IR STREAMS (4)
special files, this event occurs when band zero high water mark thresholds have
not been exceeded, or when band zero becomes back-enabled (falls below the low
water makr threshold).
.TP
.B POLLWRBAND
Priority (band > 0) data may be written to
.I fd
without blocking.
For
.IR STREAMS (4)
special files, this event occurs when any non-zero band high water mark
thresholds have not been exceeded, or when any non-zero band becomes
back-enabled (falls below the low water mark threshold).  This event only occurs
for bands that have been written to at least once.
.PP
In addition to the events described above, the following events can also be
indicated in the
.I revents
member:
(If these events are specified in the
.I events
member, they are ignored by
.BR poll ()).
.TP \w'POLLWRNORM\(em'u
.B POLLERR
An error has occured on the file.
For
.IR STREAMS (4)
special files, this event occurs when a
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message arrives at the stream head.
.TP
.B POLLHUP
A hangup has occured on the file.
For
.IR STREAMS (4)
special files, this event occurs when a
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message arrives at the stream head or the stream is closing.  A stream cannot be
writable while this event is in force.
.TP
.B POLLNVAL
The corresponding
.I fd
is invalid.
.TP
.B POLLMSG
A pending signal has occured on the file.
For
.IR STREAMS (4)
special files, this event occurs when a
.BR M_SIG (9)
message arrives at the stream head.
.PP
.BR POLLIN ", " POLLPRI ", " POLLOUT ", " POLLRDNORM ", " POLLRDBAND ", " POLLWRNORM " and " POLLWRBAND
are only set in the
.I revents
member if they have been requested in the corresponding
.I events
member.
.BR POLLMSG ", " POLLERR ", " POLLHUP " and " POLLNVAL
are always set in the
.I revents
member if true, regardless of whether they were requested in the corresponding
.I events
member.
.\"
.\"
.PP
In each
.B pollfd
structure,
.BR poll ()
clears the
.I revents
member except that where the applicat requested a report on a condition by
setting one of the bits of
.I events
listed above,
.BR poll ()
sets the corresponding bit in
.I revents
if the requested condition is true.
In addition
.BR poll ()
sets the
.BR POLLHUP ", " POLLERR " and " POLLNVAL
flag in
.I revents
if the condition is true, even if the application did not set the corresponding
bit in
.IR events .
.PP
If none of the defined events have occured on any selected file descriptor,
.BR poll ()
waits at least
.I timeout
milliseconds for an event to occur on any of the selected file descriptors.  If
the value of
.I timeout
is zero (0),
.BR poll ()
returns immediately.  If the value of
.I timeout
is minus one (-1),
.BR poll ()
blocks until a requested event occurs or until the call is interrupted.
.PP
The
.BR poll ()
function is not affected by the
.BR O_NONBLOCK
file flag (see
.BR open (2s)
or
.BR fcntl (2)).
That is,
.BR poll ()
will always block awaiting a specified event, a timeout, or interruption.
.PP
The
.BR poll ()
function supports regular files, terminal and pseudo-terminal devices,
.IR STREAMS -based
files, FIFOs and pipes.  The behavior of
.BR poll ()
on elements of
.I fds
that refer to other types of file is unspecified.
.PP
Regular files always poll true for reading and writing.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR poll ()
will return the positive number of file descriptors with returned event information.
.PP
When
.BR poll ()
times out, it will return zero (0).
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR poll ()
will return -1 and set
.IR errno (3)
as described under
.IR \*(lqERRORS , \*(rq
below.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR poll ()
fails, it returns minus one (-1) and sets
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
An invalid
.I fd
member was given in one of the
.B pollfd
structures specified by the
.I fds
argument.
This error is not specified by SUS or POSIX.
.[
SUSv2
.]
or POSIX.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
There was insufficient memory to allocate file descriptor tables.
This error is not specified by SUSv2
.[
SUSv2
.]
or POSIX (see
.RB [ EAGAIN ],
below).
.TP
.RB [ EFAULT ]
The
.I fds
argument specifies an address outside the caller's valid address range.
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
A signal was caught during
.BR poll ().
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
The
.I nfds
argument is greater that
.RB { NR_OPEN },
or one of the
.I fd
members refers to a
.I STREAM
or multiplexer that is linked (directly or indirectly) downstream from a multiplexer.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
The allocation of internal data structures failed but a subsequent request may succeed.
.\"
.\"
.SH MT-LEVEL
.PP
.BR poll ()
is MT-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B POLLMSG
flag
is
.BR Linux -specific
and is not specifies by
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3,
.[
susv3
.]
or
POSIX.
Portable programs should avoid its use.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR poll ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR STREAMS (4),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR getmsg (2s),
.IR STREAMS (4),
.BR M_PCPROTO (9),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR getmsg (2s),
.BR getpmsg (2s),
.BR M_ERROR (9),
.BR M_HANGUP (9),
.BR M_SIG (9),
.BR open (2s),
.BR fcntl (2),
.IR errno (3),
.BR streamio (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR poll ()
is compatible with SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3,
.[
susv3
.]
POSIX,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and LiS
.[
LiS
.]
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.B Linux
kernel returns
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
if a internal poll data structure cannot be allocated.  The SUSv2
.[
SUSv2
.]
error that should be returned is
.RB [ EAGAIN ].
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
LfS
.]
also inappropriately returns
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
when internal data structures cannot be allocated.
.IP \(em
.RB [ EFAULT ]
is not specified by
SUSv2
.[
SUSv2
.]
but is obvious.
.IP \(em
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
does not appear to return
.RB [ EINVAL ]
when a stream is linked under a multiplexer, but instead returns
.B POLLNVAL
for that file descriptor.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
does not duplicate this behavior.
.PP
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
only affects the use of
.BR poll ()
on
.I STREAMS
special files.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3,
.[
susv3
.]
POSIX.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS\c
.
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR poll ()
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
