'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: readv.2.man,v 0.9.2.6 2005/03/30 13:38:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:38:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000  John A. Boyd Jr.  protologos, LLC
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Library General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the
.\" Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Cambridge,
.\" MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Tom Bjorkholm <tomb@mydata.se>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" 1996-04-12 Tom Bjorkholm <tomb@mydata.se>
.\"            First version written
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 17:41:07 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.TH READV 2 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System Calls"
.SH NAME
.B readv, writev
\- read or write a vector
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/uio.h>
.sp
.BI "int readv(int " fd ", const struct iovec * " vector ", int " count );
.sp
.BI "int writev(int " fd ", const struct iovec * " vector ", int " count );
.sp
.B
\fBstruct iovec {\fR
.br
  \fB__ptr_t \fIiov_base\fB;\fR /* Starting address.  */
.br  
  \fBsize_t \fIiov_len\fB;\fR /* Length in bytes.  */
.br
\fB};\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBreadv\fR reads data from file descriptor \fIfd\fR, and puts the result 
in the buffers described by \fIvector\fR. The number of buffers is
specified by \fIcount\fR. The buffers are filled in the order specified.
Operates just like \fBread\fR except that data is put in \fIvector\fR
instead of a contiguous buffer.

\fBwritev\fR writes data to file descriptor \fIfd\fR, and from  
the buffers described by \fIvector\fR. The number of buffers is
specified by \fIcount\fR. The buffers are used in the order specified.
Operates just like \fBwrite\fR except that data is taken from \fIvector\fR
instead of a contiguous buffer.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success \fBreadv\fR returns the number of bytes read.
On success \fBwritev\fR returns the number of bytes written.
On error, \-1 is returned, and \fIerrno\fR is set appropriately.

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
An invalid argument was given. For instance \fIcount\fR might be 
greater than \fBMAX_IOVEC\fR, or zero.  \fIfd\fR could also be attached 
to an object  which  is  unsuitable for reading (for \fBreadv\fR) or
writing (for \fBwritev\fR).
.TP
.B EFAULT
"Segmentation fault." Most likely \fIvector\fR or some of the 
\fIiov_base\fR pointers points to memory that is not properly allocated.
.TP
.B EBADF
The file descriptor \fIfd\fR is not valid.
.TP
.B EINTR
The call was interrupted by a signal before any data was read/written.
.TP
.B EAGAIN
Non-blocking I/O has been selected using 
\fBO_NONBLOCK\fR and no data was immediately available for reading.
(Or the file descriptor \fIfd\fR is for an object that is locked.)
.TP
.B EISDIR
\fIfd\fR refers to a directory.
.TP
.B EOPNOTSUP
\fIfd\fR refers to a socket or device that does not support reading/writing.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory was available.
.PP
Other errors may occur, depending on the object connected to \fIfd\fR.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
4.4BSD (the
.B readv
and
.B writev
functions first appeared in BSD 4.2), Unix98.  Linux libc5 uses
\fBsize_t\fR as the type of the \fIcount\fR parameter, which is
logical but non-standard.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR fprintf (3),
.BR fscanf (3)
