'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: read.2s.man,v 0.9.2.9 2005/08/29 10:06:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/08/29 10:06:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000  John A. Boyd Jr.  protologos, LLC
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Library General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the
.\" Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Cambridge,
.\" MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 00:06:00 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Wed Jan 17 16:02:32 1996 by Michael Haardt
.\"   <michael@cantor.informatik.rwth-aachen.de>
.\" Modified Thu Apr 11 19:26:35 1996 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified Sun Jul 21 18:59:33 1996 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified Fri Jan 31 16:47:33 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 12 20:45:39 1997 by Michael Haardt
.\"   <michael@cantor.informatik.rwth-aachen.de>
.\"
.TH READ 2 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B read
\- read from a file descriptor
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "ssize_t read(int " fd ", void *" buf ", size_t " nbytes );
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
The file descriptor from which to read.
.TP
.I buf
The buffer into which to read the bytes.
.TP
.I nbytes
The maximum number of bytes to read.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B read()
attempts to read up to
.I nbytes
bytes from file descriptor
.I fd
into the buffer starting at
.IR buf .
.PP
If
.I nbytes
is zero, \fBread()\fP returns zero and has no other results.
If
.I nbytes
is greater than SSIZE_MAX, the result is unspecified.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.PP
A
.BR read ()
request that is interrupted by a signal before any data is transferred to the user fails, returns minus one
.RB ( -1 ),
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to
.RB [ EINTR ].
.PP
A
.BR read ()
request that is interrupted by a signal after data has already been transferred to the user,
terminates and returns the number of bytes read.
.\"
.PP
A
.BR read ()
from a
.I STREAMS
file shall return the data in the message at the front of the STREAM head read queue, regardless of
the priority of the message.
.\"
.SS STREAM head Read Modes
.\"
.\"
.PP
A
.BR read ()
from a
.I STREAMS
file can read data in three different modes: byte-stream mode, message-nondiscard mode and
message-discard mode.  The default is byte-stream mode.  The current mode for a particular
.I STREAMS
file can be changed using the
.B I_SRDOPT
command to
.BR ioctl (2),
and can be examined using the
.BR I_GRDOPT
command.
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
In byte-stream mode,
.BR read ()
shall retrieve data from the
.I STREAMS
file until as many bytes as were requested are transferred, or until there is no more data to be
retrieved.  Byte-stream mode ignores message boundaries.
.IP \(bu
In
.I STREAMS
message non-discard mode,
.BR read ()
shall retreive data until as many bytes are were requested are transferred, or until a message
boundary is reached.  If
.BR read ()
does not retreival all the data in a message, the remaining data shall be left on the STREAM, and
can be retrieved by the next
.BR read (),
.BR getmsg (2)
or
.BR getpmsg (2s)
call.
.IP \(bu
Message-discard mode also retrieves data until as many bytes as were requested are transferred, or a
message boundary is reached.  However, unread data remaining in a message after the
.BR read ()
call returns shall be discarded, and shall not be available to a subsequent
.BR read (),
.BR getmsg ()
or
.BR getpsmg ()
call.
.\"
.PP
How
.BR read ()
handles zero-byte
.I STREAMS
messages is determined by the current read mode setting:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
In byte-stream mode,
.BR read ()
shall accept data until it has read
.I nbytes
bytes, or until there is no more data to read, or until a zero-byte message block is encountered.
The
.BR read ()
function shall then return the number of bytes read, and place the zero-byte message back on the
STREAM to be retrieved by the next
.BR read (),
.BR getmsg (2)
or
.BR getpmsg (2s)
call.
.IP \(bu
In message-nondiscard mode or message-discard mode, a zero-byte message shall return zero
.RB ( 0 )
and the message shall be removed from the STREAM.
.IP \(bu
Regardless of the read mode,
whenever a zero-byte message is read as the first message on a STREAM, the
message shall be removed from the STREAM and zero
.RB ( 0 )
shall be returned.
.\"
.\"
.SS STREAMS Read Control Modes
.\"
.\"
.PP
A
.BR read ()
from a
.I STREAMS
file can handle control parts in
.I STREAMS
messages in three different modes: control-normal mode, control-data mode and control-discard mode.
The default is control-normal mode.  (Older versions of
.I STREAMS
only supported control-normal mode.)  The current control mode for a particular
.I STREAMS
file can be changes using the
.BR I_SRDOPT (7)
command to
.BR ioctl (2),
and can be examined using the
.BR I_GRDOPT (7)
command.
.\"
.PP
How
.BR read ()
handles
.I STREAMS
message containing control parts depends on the current read control mode setting:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
In control-normal mode, a
.BR read ()
from a
.I STREAMS
file can only process messages that contain a data part but do not contain a control part.  The
.BR read ()
shall fail, return minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and set
.IR errno (3)
to
.RB [ EBADMSG ],
if a message containing a control part is encountered at the STREAM head.
.IP \(bu
In control-data mode,
.BR read ()
shall convert any control part to data and pass it to the application before passing any data part
originally present in the same message.
.IP \(bu
In control-discard mode,
.BR read ()
shall discard message control parts but return to the process any data part in the message.
.\"
.PP
Also,
.BR read ()
shall fail if the STREAM head had processed an asynchronous error before the call.  In this case,
the value of
.IR errno (3)
shall not reflect the result of
.BR read (),
but reflect the prior error.  If a hangup occurs on the STREAM being read,
.BR read ()
shall continue to operate normally until the STREAM head read queue is empty.  Thereafter, it shall
return zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.\"
.\"
.SS Marked Messages
.\"
.PP
.I STREAMS
messages can be marked by a downstream module or driver in support of TCP's out-of-band data.
Once marked, a message sent to the stream head causes the stream head to remember the message.  A
user may check to see if the message on the front of its stream head read queue is marked with the
.BR I_ATMARK (7)
command to
.BR ioctl (2).
If a user is reading data from the stream head and there are multiplex messages on the read queue,
and one of those messages is marked,
.BR read ()
terminates when it reaches the marked message and returns the data only up to the marked message.
The rest of the data can be obtained with successive reads.
.\"
.PP
When
.BR read ()
encounters a marked message and data has already been transferred, the read terminates with the
amount of data already read.  The marked message is kept on the STREAM head to be read by a subsequent
.BR read (),
.BR getmsg ()
or
.BR getpmsg ()
call.
The resulting short read is an indication to the caller that a marked message could exist on the
STREAM head read queue.  (Short reads can also result from a zero-length data message, or from a
delimited message.)  When a short read occurs, the user should test for a marked message using the
.B ANYMARK
flag of the
.BR I_ATMARK (7)
command to
.BR ioctl (2).
A subsequent
.BR read ()
will consume the marked message.  If a marked message exists, there is the possibility that there is
also a marked message following the marked message.  This can be checked with the
.B LASTMARK
flag of the
.BR I_ATMARK (7)
comand to
.BR ioctl (2).
.\"
.\"
.SS Synchronous and Asynchronous I/O
.\"
.\"
.PP
How
.BR read ()
handles asynchronous input-output using the
.BR O_NDELAY " (or " O_NONBLOCK )
file status flags depends on the semantics setting of the STREAM head.  The STREAM head can be set
for
.I STREAMS
semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
or it can be set for old TTY semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY .
This setting can only be changed by a downstream module or driver by issuing a
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message to the STREAM head with the
.BR SO_NDELON " or " STR_NDELOFF
flags set.  The application has no method for examining the setting of semantics for the STREAM head
and must rely on prior knowledge of the behaviour of the modules or driver in a particular STREAM.
.PP
Regardless of the semantics used at the STREAM head, when
.BR O_NDELAY " (or " O_NONBLOCK )
are clear, a call to
.BR read ()
will block awaiting the requested number of bytes,
.IR nbytes ,
or a message boundary, or a zero-length message.  The
.BR read ()
request might still terminate early and return and error or the number of bytes transferred when a
signal is received or an error is encountered.
.PP
When
.BR O_NDELAY " (or " O_NONBLOCK )
file status flags are set on
.IR fd ,
the behaviour of
.BR read ()
depends on the semantics setting at the STREAM head:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
When the STREAM head is set to
.I STREAMS
semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
and the requested number of bytes are not immediately available to be read from the STREAM head read
queue,
.BR read ()
terminates and returns the number of bytes that could be transferred.  If no bytes could be
transferred,
.BR read ()
fails, returns minus one
.RB ( -1 ),
and sets
.BR errno (3)
to
.RB [ EAGAIN ].
.IP \(bu
When the stream head is set to old TTY semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
and the requested number of bytes are not immediately available to be read from the STREAM head read
queue,
.BR read ()
terminates and returns the number of bytes that could be transferred.  If no bytes could be
transferred,
.BR read ()
terminates and returns zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.\"
.\"
.PP
When attempting to read from a
.I STREAMS
file that has no data currently available:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If the STREAM head is set for
.I STREAMS
semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
and
.BR O_NONBLOCK " (or " O_NDELAY )
is set,
.BR read ()
will fail, return minus one
.RB ( -1 ),
and set
.IR errno (3)
to
.RB [ EAGAIN ].
.IP \(bu
If the STREAM head is set for
.I old TTY
semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
and
.BR O_NDELAY " (or " O_NONBLOCK )
is set,
.BR read ()
will terminate and return zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.IP \(bu
If
.BR O_NONBLOCK " (or " O_NDELAY )
is clear,
.BR read ()
shall block the calling thread until some data becomes available.
.IP \(bu
The use of the
.BR O_NONBLOCK " (or " O_NDELAY )
flag has no effect if there is some data available at the time of the call to
.BR read ().
.\"
.\"
.PP
When attempting to
.BR read ()
from an empty
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe or FIFO:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If no process has the FIFO, or other end of the pipe, open for writing,
.BR read ()
shall return zero
.RB ( 0 )
to indicate end-of-file.
.IP
This is consistent with hangup behaviour for
.I STREAMS
files.
.IP \(bu
If some process has the FIFO, or the other end of the pipe, open for writing and
.BR O_NONBLOCK " (or " O_NDELAY )
is set,
.BR read ()
shall return minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and set
.IR errno (3)
to
.RB [ EAGAIN ].
.IP
This is consistent with
.I STREAMS
semantics for
.B O_NDELAY
behaviour for
.I STREAMS
files.
.IP \(bu
If some process has the FIFO, or the other end of the pipe, open for writing and
.BR O_NONBLOCK " (or " O_NDELAY )
is clear,
.BR read ()
shall block the calling thread until some data is written or the FIFO, or the other end of the pipe,
is closed by all processes that had the FIFO, or the other end of the pipe, open for writing.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
On success, the number of bytes read is returned (zero indicates end of
file), and the file position is advanced by this number.
It is not an error if this number is smaller than the number of bytes
requested; this may happen for example because fewer bytes are actually
available right now (maybe because we were close to end-of-file, or
because we are reading from a pipe, or from a terminal), or because
\fBread()\fP was interrupted by a signal.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately. In this case it is left unspecified whether
the file position (if any) changes.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP \w'[EWOUDLBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EINTR ]
The call was interrupted by a signal before any data was read.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
Non-blocking I/O has been selected using
.B O_NONBLOCK
and no data was immediately available for reading.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
I/O error. This will happen for example when the process is in a
background process group, tries to read from its controlling tty,
and either it is ignoring or blocking SIGTTIN or its process group
is orphaned.  It may also occur when there is a low-level I/O error
while reading from a disk or tape.
.TP
.RB [ EISDIR ]
.I fd
refers to a directory.
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor or is not open for reading.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
is attached to an object which is unsuitable for reading.
.TP
.RB [ EFAULT ]
.I buf
is outside your accessible address space.
.\"
.\"
.PP
When
.I fd
refers to a
.I STREAMS
file or a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe or FIFO,
the following additional error conditions can occur:
.TP \w'[EWOUDLBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EBADF ]
.I fd
is not a valid open file descriptor, or is not opened for reading.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
refers to a STREAM that is linked (directly or indirectly) downstream from a multiplexing driver.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
.I fd
refers to a STREAM that is closed or closing.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
.I fd
is set for non-blocking operation using the
.BR O_NDELAY " (or " O_NONBLOCK )
file status flags, the STREAM head is set for
.I STREAMS
semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
and no data was immediately available to be read.
.TP
.RB [ ETIME ]
The calling process blocked for an excessive period of time.
.\"
.PP
Also, if the STREAM head receives an asyncrhonous error message
.RB ( M_ERROR (9))
indicating a read error, the error returned in
.IR errno (3)
will be the error received in the error message.
.\"
.\"
.PP
When
.I fd
refers to a
.I STREAMS
file,
the following additional error conditions can occur:
.TP \w'[EWOUDLBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I fd
refers to a STREAM that has received a hangup message
.RB ( M_HANGUP (9)).
.\"
.\"
.PP
When
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe or FIFO,
the following additional error conditions can occur:
.TP \w'[EWOUDLBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe that has received a hangup message
.RB ( M_HANGUP (9)).
.TP
.RB [ EPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe and the other end of the pipe has disconnected.
.TP
.RB [ EPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe or FIFO and the other end of the pipe or FIFO has closed or is closing.
.TP
.RB [ ESTRPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe or FIFO, the other end of the pipe or FIFO has hung up, or is closing, or has closed, or there
remain no writers and there is no data available to be
read on the STREAM head read queue.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.PP
Other errors may occur, depending on the object connected to
.IR fd .
POSIX allows a
.B read
that is interrupted after reading some data
to return \-1 (with
.I errno
set to EINTR) or to return the number of bytes already read.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The behaviour of multiple concurrent reads on the same STREAM, pipe, FIFO, or terminal device is
unspecified.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
On NFS file systems, reading small amounts of data will only update the time stamp the first time,
subsequent calls may not do so.  This is caused by client side attribute caching, because most if
not all NFS clients leave atime updates to the server and client side reads satisfied from the
client's cache will not cause atime updates on the server as there are no server side reads.  UNIX
semantics can be obtained by disabling client side attribute caching, but in most situations this
will substantially increase server load and decrease performance.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR close (2),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR lseek (2),
.BR readdir (2),
.BR readlink (2),
.BR select (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR fread (3)
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR read ()
is compatible with
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3/POSIX,
.[
susv3
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42cr
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR LiS ,
.IR MacOT \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
There is some differences between the way that
.I POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
describes blocking operation in byte-stream mode and the way that
.I SVR 4
.[
magic
%O Section 7.9.6 \(lqReading from a stream\(rq,
%P p. 480.
.]
describes blocking operation in byte-stream mode.
.IP
.I POSIX
says that in byte-stream mode the STREAM reads up to
.I nbytes
of data, or until there is no more data left on the stream,
or a zero-length message is encountered,
(or a signal or error condition interrupts the read).
.I POSIX
also says that in byte-stream mode a zero-length message terminates the read but that if data has
already been transferred that the zero-length message is placed back on the read queue.
.IP
.I SVR 4
ways that in byte-stream mode the STREAM reads up to
.I nbytes
of data, or a zero-length message is encountered.
.I SVR 4
says that in byte-stream mode a zero-length message terminates the read (a short read) but does not
say that the zero-length message is placed back on the stream.
.I SVR 4
also says that an
.B M_READ (9)
message is generated downstream when there is insufficient data at the STREAM head to satisfy the
.BR read ()
request, and that, when
.I VMIN=0
and
.IR VTIME=0 ,
.BR ldterm (4)
transforms
.BR M_READ (9)
messages into zero-length
.BR M_DATA (9)
messages to signal the STREAM head to return with a short read.
.IP
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdoc
.]
and
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfdoc
.]
provide a special
.B RFILL
mode similar to
.B RNORM
except that the buffer is completely filled.  This behaviour is somewhere between the
.I POSIX
and
.I SVR 4
behavior.
Other implementations, and particularly
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
state that an
.BR M_READ (9)
message contains the number of bytes requested by the read and is only sent downstream when there is
.I no
data at the STREAM head, and that
.BR ldterm (4)
transforms the
.BR M_READ (9)
message into a
.BR M_DATA (9)
message containing the requeste data if there is a data available.  (Otherwise, it presumably
discards the
.BR M_READ (9)
message!)
(Note that it is possible to have the STREAM head allocate a buffer associated with the
.BR M_READ (9)
message sufficient to hold the number of bytes necessary to allow the
.BR M_READ (9)
message to be transformed into an
.BR M_DATA (9)
message without having to reallocate a block, allowing the
.BR M_READ (9)
to be processed easily within a module or driver
.BR qi_putp (9)
procedure.)
.IP
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
terminates on a zero-length message but does not place a zero-length message back onto the STREAM
head read queue when data has already been transferred and in byte-stream mode, but it terminates
after reading data when there is no more data to read.  This seems half
.I POSIX
(terminate with short read when data no longer available, generate
.BR M_READ (9)
only for no data condition before blocking)
and half
.I SVR 4
(do not requeue zero-length data messages in byte-stream mode)
behavior.
.IP
These are several rather different behaviours for
.BR read ()
when in byte-stream mode.
.I POSIX
behaviour centers around placing a zero-length message back on the queue in byte-stream mode.
.I SVR 4
behaviour centers around not placing the message back.
.IP
Under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
the
.I POSIX
behavior for zero-length messages is followed if the STREAM head is not marked for delimited
messages or the zero-length message is not marked or delimited and follows the
.I SVR 4
behavior if the STREAM head is set for delimited messages and the message is delimited, and whenever
a message is marked.
This seems to be a good compromise.
Also, when the
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
STREAM head generates an
.BR M_READ (9)
message, it allocates a buffer with sufficient size to hold the requested data so that it can be
easily transformed into a
.BR M_DATA (9)
message without reallocating a message data block.
.IP
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will expect the
.I POSIX
behaviour unless the STREAM head has been explicitly set by the downstream module or driver to
delimited messages by sending an
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message to the STREAM head with the
.B SO_DELIMON
flag set, and send zero-length messages with the
.B MSGDELIM
flag set, in which case they will expect the
.I SVR 4
behaviour.
.IP
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications programs must expect that a
.BR read ()
might terminate early with a read count less than
.IR nbytes ,
and that it might block and be interrupted mid-read.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
Although
.I POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
specifies that if an interrupt occurs during a read after data has already been transferred, that
the call terminates and returns the number of bytes read, it is questionable under what conditions
this could happen.  The
.I POSIX
behaviour is to terminate with the number of bytes read when no more data is waiting to be read at
the STREAM head.  This means that the
.I POSIX
implementation would not block after blocking for the initial message, so how can it receive a
signal subsequently?
.IP
.I SVR 4
.[
magic
.]
specifies that read waits for all requested bytes and therefore an implementation would block each
time that there is no data waiting to be read and could, therefore, be interrupted in the middle of
transferring data while waiting for more data.
.IP
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
follows the
.I POSIX
behavior in this regard.
.IP
These behaviors are somewhat contradictory too.
.IP
When
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
is following the
.I POSIX
behaviour as described above, it will not block mid-read; when following the
.I SVR 4
behaviour, it can block mid-read.
.IP
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications programs must expect that a short read could result from an error on the STREAM in the
middle of the read, or that the read can be interrupted in the middle as a result of a signal.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
The behaviour of
.BR read ()
when restarting signals are used is also confusing.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
uses the error number
.RB [ ERESTARTSYS ]
as a signal to the C library that the call can be restarted.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdoc
.]
and
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfdoc
.]
provides the additional
.B RFILL
read mode and the additional
.B RPROTCOMPRESS
control mode, but these are incompatible with the
.IR "i386 ABI" .
.B RFILL
requests that the
.BR read ()
call block until
.I nbytes
is satsified (similar to the
.I SVR 4
discussion above).
.B RPROTCOMPRESS
compress identical data messages into a compressed result.  Although this might be useful for SS7
MTP Level 2, it is not portable.
.IP
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules, drivers and application programs will not use the
.BR RFILL " or " RPROTCOMPRESS
read modes.
.\"
.\"
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
used to recognize the \(lqinvalid\(rq buffer length to
.BR read ()
used by
.I LiS
to emulate the
.I __NR_getpmsg
system call.
This is no longer the case.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
(as with current versions of
.IR LiS ),
.[
lis
.]
uses the
.B I_GETPMSG
command to
.BR ioctl (2)
to emulate the
.BR getpmsg (2s)
system call.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
SVr4, SVID, AT&T, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
