'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: write.2s.man,v 0.9.2.13 2008-04-28 12:53:40 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:40 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: write.2s.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.13  2008-04-28 12:53:40  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.12  2006/04/05 09:43:42  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000  John A. Boyd Jr.  protologos, LLC
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Library General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the
.\" Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Cambridge,
.\" MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\"
.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 13:35:59 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Sun Nov 28 17:19:01 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Sat Jan 13 12:58:08 1996 by Michael Haardt
.\"   <michael@cantor.informatik.rwth-aachen.de>
.\" Modified Sun Jul 21 18:59:33 1996 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.TH WRITE 2 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B write
\- write to a file descriptor
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "ssize_t write(int " fd ", const void *" buf ", size_t " nbytes );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'nbytes\(em'u
.I fd
The file descriptor to which to write bytes.
.PD 0
.TP
.I buf
The buffer from which to write bytes.
.TP
.I nbytes
The maximum number of bytes to write.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR write ()
writes up to
.I nbytes
bytes to the file referenced by the file descriptor
.I fd
from the buffer starting at
.I buf.
.I POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
requires that a \fBread()\fP which can be proved to occur after a
\fBwrite()\fP has returned returns the new data.  Note that not all file
systems are
.I POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
conforming.
.\"
.\"
.PP
If
.BR write ()
is interrupted by a signal before it writes any data, it shall return minus one
.RB ( -1 )
with
.IR errno (3)
set to
.RB [ EINTR ].
If
.BR write ()
is interrupted by a signal after it successfully writes some data, it shall return the number of
bytes written.
.\"
.\"
.SS STREAMS character device special files
.\"
.\"
.PP
If
.I fd
refers to a
.I STREAMS
character device special file,
the operation of
.BR write ()
is determined by the values of the minimum and maximum
.I nbytes
range (\(lqpacket size\(rq) accepted by the
.I STREAMS
character device special file.
These values are determined by the topmost
.I STREAMS
module or driver.
They are contained in the
.I mi_minpsz
and
.I mi_maxpsz
members of the
.BR module_info (9)
structure associated with the topmost module, and are copied into the
.I q_minpsz
and
.I q_maxpsz
members of the topmost module's
.BR queue (9)
structure.
Unless the user pushes the topmost module, these values cannot be set or examined from user level
(see
.BR I_PUSH (7)
or
.BR streamio (7)).
.PP
If
.I nbytes
falls within the packet size range accepted,
.I nbytes
bytes will be written.
If
.I nbytes
does not fall within the range and the minimum packet size is zero
.RB ( 0 ),
.BR write ()
will break the buffer into maximum packet size segments prior to sending the data downstream
(the last segment may contain less than the maximum packet size).  If
.I nbytes
does not fall within the range and the minimum value is non-zero,
.BR write ()
will fail with
.IR errno (3)
set to
.RB [ ERANGE ].
.PP
Writing a zero-length buffer
.RI ( nbytes
is zero
.RB ( 0 ))
to a
.I STREAMS
device sends zero
.RB ( 0 )
bytes with zero
.RB ( 0 )
returned.  However,
writing a zero-length buffer
to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe or FIFO sends no message and zero
.RB ( 0 )
is returned.  The process may issue an
.BR I_SWROPT (7)
.BR ioctl (2s)
with the
.B SNDZERO
flag set in the argument
to enable zero-length message to be sent across a pipe or FIFO.
.\"
.\"
.PP
When writing to a
.I STREAMS
character device special file, data messages
.RB (see " M_DATA " (9))
are created with a priority band of zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.\"
.\"
.PP
To distinguish the situation where a partial write has occurred versus as full write to downstream
modules and drivers, the Stream head uses the
.BR MSGDELIM
flag in the
.I b_flag
member of the
.BR msgb (9)
structure to indicate the delimitation of full writes.  Whenever a partial write is performed by
the Stream head, the
.BR MSGDELIM
flag is not set, indicating that the message does not contain a record boundary and that a
subsequent data message contains more of the same record.
Whenever a full write is performed by the Stream head, the
.BR MSGDELIM
flag is set, indicating that the message is the last message in a sequence of messages for the record.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Also,
.BR write ()
and
.BR writev ()
will fail if the Stream head had processed an asynchronous error before the call.  In this case, the
value of
.IR errno (3)
does not reflect the result of the
.BR write ()
or
.BR writev (),
but reflects the prior error.
If the Stream head is set for old TTY semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
and a portion of the buffer has already been written,
.BR write ()
will block awaiting the availability of further message blocks to service the request.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I STREAMS
provides a write option to also send a
.B SIGPIPE
signal to the writing process whenever a write side error has been reported in an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message.
This write option can be enabled by setting the
.B SNDPIPE
flag in the STREAM head write options using the
.BR I_SWROPT (7)
command to
.BR ioctl (2s)
as detailed in
.BR streamio (7).
The setting of this write option can be examined using the
.BR I_GWROPT (7)
command.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.I STREAMS
provides a hold feature that improves the performance of
.I STREAMS
when the process issues many small writes.  The message hold feature is enabled if the system
administrator has changed the system control
.BR sysctl_str_strhold
to be non-zero and if the Stream head flag
.B STRHOLD
is set by a module or driver.
A downstream module or driver sets the STREAM head
.B STRHOLD
bit by sending a
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message upstream with the
.B SO_STRHOLD
flag set.
(The
.BR ldterm (4)
tty line discipline module does this.)
The process may also issue a
.BR I_SWROPT (7)
.BR ioctl (2s)
with the
.B SNDHOLD
flag set in the argument to enable the hold feature on a particular Stream, but this is a
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
extension.
.PP
The message hold feature exploits the fact that
.BR allocb (9)
allocate a buffer with a data size that is always equal to or greater than
.BR FASTBUF .
The buffer is allocated and the data is copied into it.
.BR strwrite (9)
then checks to see if another
.BR write ()
of the same size will fit into the same buffer.  If it will, the buffer is held temporarily on the
Stream head write queue, a timeout is started (usually 10ms, but settable with the
.BR sysctl_str_rtime
system control), and the Stream head is linked into the
.I scanqhead
list in the master
.BR strthread (9)
structure.
.PP
One of three things will then happen:
.IP 1) \w'0)\(em'u
A second
.RB write ()
occurs with a data port that is small enough to fit into the remaining portion of the saved buffer.
The data is put into the buffer and sent downstream.  Since two writes have been sent downstream in
one message, the optimization is successful.
.IP 2)
A second
.BR write ()
occurs with a data portion that is too big to fit into the remaining portion of the
saved buffer.  The saved message is sent downstream followed by another message holding the data of
the second
.BR write ().
.IP 3)
No second
.BR write ()
occurs so the timeout expires.  The timeout processing performed by
.BR queuerun (9)
scans the
.I scanqhead
list in the
.BR strthread (9)
structure and sends downstream any messages held on the Stream head write queues whose timeouts have
expired.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS I/O"
.\"
.PP
.I STREAMS
character device special files can be set for
.I STREAMS
semantics for
.B O_NDELAY
or the old TTY semantics for
.B O_NDELAY.
The semantics can be changed by a module that sends a
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message to the Stream head specifying
.BR SO_NDELON " or " SO_NDELOFF .
There is no way for the user process to interrogate whether
.I STREAMS
or old TTY
semantics for
.B O_NDELAY
have been applied to a Stream without prior knowledge about the behaviour of the modules or driver.
.\"
.\"
.PP
When writing to a
.I STREAMS
character device special file that is neither a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe nor FIFO, and
the Stream is using
.I STREAMS
semantics for the
.B O_NDELAY
file flag, the following occurs:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If the
.B O_NONBLOCK
(or
.BR O_NDELAY )
file flag is clear, and the Stream cannot accept data (the Stream write queue is full due to
internal flow control conditions),
.BR write ()
blocks until data can be accepted.
.IP \(bu
If the
.B O_NONBLOCK
(or
.BR O_NDELAY )
file flag is set, and the Stream cannot accept data (the Stream write queue is full due to internal
flow conditions),
.BR write ()
fails, returns minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and sets the global error number,
.IR errno (3)
to
.RB [ EAGAIN ].
.IP \(bu
If the
.B O_NONBLOCK
(or
.BR O_NDELAY )
file flag is set and part of the buffer has been written while a condition in which the Stream
cannot accept additional data occurs,
.BR write ()
will terminate and return the number of bytes written.
A subsequent
.BR write ()
call under the same conditions will fail, return minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and set the global error number,
.IR errno (3)
to the appropriate error number.
.PP
When writing to a
.I STREAMS
character device special file that is neither a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe nor FIFO, and
the Stream is using
old TTY
semantics for the
.BR O_NDELAY
file flag, the following occurs:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Regardless of the setting of the
.BR O_NDELAY " (or " O_NONBLOCK )
file flag, when the Stream cannot accept data (the Stream write queue is full due to internal flow
conditions),
.BR write ()
blocks until data can be accepted.
.IP \(bu
Regardless of the setting of the
.BR O_NDELAY " (or " O_NONBLOCK )
file flag, when part of the buffer has been written while a condition in which the Stream cannot
accept additional data due to flow control or the availability of message blocks occurs,
.BR write ()
blocks until data can be accepted.
.PP
Regardless of the semantics used for
.B O_NDELAY
on the Stream, or the settings of the
.BR O_NDELAY " or " O_NONBLOCK
file flags, in the same manner as
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR putpmsg (2s)
and
.BR I_FDINSERT (7),
.BR write ()
will always block awaiting the availability of the initial message block to service the
.BR write ()
request.  If due
to internal resource limitations, the initial message block cannot be allocated,
.BR write ()
fails, returns minus one 
.RB ( -1 ),
and sets the global error number,
.IR errno (3)
to
.RB [ ENOSR ].
.PP
Once a portion of the buffer has been written, if the
.BR O_NDELAY " (or " O_NONBLOCK )
file flag is set, and the Stream head is set for
.I STREAMS
semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
and the Stream cannot accept further data (the Stream head write queue is full due to internal flow
conditions), or a message block is not available,
.BR write ()
will terminate and return the number of bytes written so far.
.\"
.\"
.SS STREAMS-based Pipes and FIFOs
.\"
.\"
.PP
.BR write ()
requests to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe or FIFO shall be handled in the same way as a
.I STREAMS
character device special file,
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
There is no file offset associated with a pipe, hence each
.BR write ()
shall append to the end of the pipe.
.IP \(bu
.BR write ()
requests of
.RB { PIPE_BUF }
bytes or less shall not be interleaved with data from other processes doing writes on the same pipe.
Writes of greater than
.RB { PIPE_BUF }
bytes may have data interleaved, on arbitrary boundaries, with writes by other processes, whether or
not the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag of the file status flags is set.
.IP \(bu
If the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag is clear, a
.BR write ()
request may cause the thread to block, but on normal completion it shall return
.IR nbytes .
.PP
If the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag is set,
.BR write ()
requests shall be handled differently, in the following ways:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
The
.BR write ()
function shall not block the thread.
.IP \(bu
A
.BR write ()
request for
.RB { PIPE_BUF }
or fewer bytes shall have the following effect: if there is sufficient space available in the pipe,
.BR write ()
shall transfer all the data and return the number of bytes requested.  Otherwise,
.BR write ()
shall transfer no data and return minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and set
.IR errno (3)
to
.RB [ EAGAIN ].
.IP \(bu
A
.BR write ()
request for more than
.RB { PIPE_BUF }
bytes shall cause one of the following:  When at least one byte can be written, transfer what it can
and return the number of bytes written.  When all data previously written to the pipe is read, it
shall transfer at least
.RB { PIPE_BUF }
bytes.  When no data can be written, transfer no data, return minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and set
.IR errno (3)
to
.RB [ EAGAIN ].
.\"
.\"
.PP
Note that
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes and FIFOs will exhibit correct behavior if the following is performed on a normal Stream:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
The minimum packet size is set to zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
The maximum packet size is set to
.RB { PIPE_BUF }.
.IP \(bu
The write side queue high water mark is set to
.RB { PIPE_BUF }.
.IP \(bu
The write size low water mark is set to zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.IP \(bu
The
.B SNDZERO
write option flag is cleared (this is the default for all Stream heads anyway).
.IP \(bu
The
.B SNDHOLD
write option flag is cleared (this is the default for all Stream heads anyway).
.PD
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon success,
.BR write ()
returns the number of bytes written (normally
.IR nbytes ).
.BR write ()
only returns zero
.RB ( 0 )
if
.I nbytes
was zero
.RB ( 0 ).
Upon failure,
.BR write ()
returns minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and
.IR errno (3)
is set to an apporpriate error number.
.PP
If
.I nbytes
is zero
.RB ( 0 )
and
.I fd
refers to a
regular file, a
.I STREAMS
character device special file, or a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe or FIFO,
.BR write ()
returns zero
.RB ( 0 ).
Whether a zero-length message is sent depends on the setting of
.BR SNDZERO .
.B SNDZERO
can be set or cleared with the
.B I_SWROPT
command to
.BR ioctl (2s)
for a
.I STREAMS
character device special file or a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe or FIFO.
Zero-length messages are never sent for a regular file.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR write ()
fails, it returns minus one
.RB ( \-1 )
and sets
.IR errno (3)
to an appropriate error number as follows:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EBADF ]
.I fd
is not a valid file descriptor or is not open for writing.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
is attached to an object which is unsuitable for writing.
.TP
.RB [ EFAULT ]
.I buf
is outside your accessible address space.
.TP
.RB [ EFBIG ]
An attempt was made to
.BR write ()
a file that exceeds the implementation-defined maximum file size or the process' file size limit, or
to
.BR write ()
at a position past than the maximum allowed offset.
.TP
.RB [ EPIPE ]
.I fd
is connected to a pipe or socket whose reading end is closed.  When this
happens the writing process will receive a
.B SIGPIPE
signal; if it catches, blocks or ignores this the error
.RB [ EPIPE ]
is returned.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
Non-blocking I/O has been selected using
.B O_NONBLOCK
and the
.BR write ()
call would block.
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
The call was interrupted by a signal before any data was written.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSPC ]
The device containing the file referred to by
.I fd
has no room for the data.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
A low-level I/O error occurred while modifying the inode.
.\"
.\"
.PP
For a
.I STREAMS
character device special file, or a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe or FIFO,
the following additional failure conditions can occur:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ ERANGE ]
.I nbytes
describes a message that is larger than the system maximum on the data part of a message
.RB ( sysctl_str_strmsgsz ),
or describes a message that is outside the range provided specified by the minimum and maximum
packet sizes of the topmost
.I STREAMS
module or driver in the Stream.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
Allocation of message blocks to meet the request failed due to internal resource limitations.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I fd
refers to a Stream that is linked (directly or indirectly) downstream from a multiplexing driver.
.TP
.RB [ ETIME ]
.BR O_NONBLOCK " and " O_NDELAY
file flags are clear, and the process has blocked for an excessively long period of time.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
.BR O_NONBLOCK " or " O_NDELAY
file flags are set, the Stream is set for
.I STREAMS
semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
and the process would otherwise block due to internal flow control conditions.
.TP
.RB [ EWOULDBLOCK ]
Same as
.RB [ EAGAIN ].
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
The process was interrupted by a signal before the
.BR write ()
operation could complete, but before data was written.
.TP
.RB [ ERESTARTSYS ]
The process was interrupted by a signal before the
.BR write ()
operation could begin.  That is, the process has not yet blocked or written any data.
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
The Stream referred to by
.I fd
has closed or is in the process of closing.
.\"
.\"
.PP
For a
.I STREAMS
character device special file,
the following additional failure conditions can occur:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ ENXIO ]
.I fd
refers to a Stream
that has received a hangup.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Also, if an error message is received by the Stream head indicating a write error, the error number
returned in
.IR errno (3)
will be the error number contained in the error message.
.\"
.\"
.PP
For a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe or FIFO, the following additional failure conditions can occur:
.TP \w'[EWOULDBLOCK]\(em'u
.RB [ EPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe or FIFO
that has received a hangup.
.TP
.RB [ EPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe whose other end has closed or is closing.  A
.BR SIGPIPE
signal will also be sent to the calling process.
.TP
.RB [ ESTRPIPE ]
.I fd
refers to a
.IR STREAMS -based
pipe or FIFO or for which there are no readers.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Other errors may occur, depending on the object connected to
.IR fd .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS Multi-Threading
.PP
.BR write ()
is thread safe; however, unless POSIX mandatory file locks (see
.BR lockf (3))
are used, multiple partial writes could interfere with one another.
.\"
.\"
.SS Asynchronous I/O
.PP
If the file is set for blocking operation (see
.BR fcntl (2)),
or old TTY semantics for
.B O_NDELAY
are set for the Stream head,
.BR write ()
will block waiting for the Stream to permit sending messages under flow control.
.\"
.\"
.PP
When the file is set for non-blocking operation, and the Stream is set for
.I STREAMS
semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
.BR write ()
will not block, but will fail, return minus one
.RB ( -1 ),
and populate the global error number,
.IR errno (3),
with
.RB [ EAGAIN ].
.\"
.\"
.PP
When the file is set for non-blocking operation (file flag
.BR O_NDELAY " (or " O_NONBLOCK )
is set), and the Stream is set for
.I STREAMS
semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
.BR write ()
will terminate and return the number of bytes written if part of the buffer has already been written
and a flow control or unavailable buffer condition is encountered.
When the file is set for blocking operation or the Stream head is set for
old TTY
semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
.BR write ()
will not return a partial number of bytes written unless a fatal error (such as a closing or hung up
Stream) is encountered.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Regardless of the Stream head semantics for
.BR O_NDELAY ,
or the setting of the
.BR O_NDELAY " and " O_NONBLOCK
file flags,
.BR write ()
will block, unless prevented by lack of internal
.I STREAMS
resources, awaiting the availability of message blocks to complete the operation.
When prevented from blocking due to a lack of internal
.I STREAMS
resources,
.BR write ()
will fail, return minus one
.RB ( -1 ),
and set the global error number,
.IR errno (3)
to
.RB [ ENOSR ].
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
When an implementation returns
.RB [ ENOSR ]
is not clear.
.PP
An implementation that uses
.BR bufcall (9)
to implement waiting for the availability of message blocks might fail allocate a
.BR bufcall (9)
callback due to the unavailability of
.I STREAMS
resources.  That is, a call to
.BR bufcall (9)
to create a buffer callback fails and returns zero
.RB ( 0 ),
leaving the implementation little option but to return
.RB [ ENOSR ].
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
uses a different approach, utilizing the non-standard
.B BPRI_WAITOK
flag to
.BR allocb (9).
This permits the Stream head to block awaiting the availability of message blocks without ever
failing due to lack of internal
.I STREAMS
resources.  Therefore,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
will not return
.RB [ ENOSR ],
but will block indefinitely awaiting the availability of a message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR open (2s),
.BR read (2s),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR close (2),
.BR lseek (2),
.BR select (2),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR fsync (2),
.BR fwrite (3)
.PP
If your
.B GNU/Linux
distribution is equipped with
.I OpenGroup
.I POSIX/SUSv3
manual pages, also see
.BR write (3p).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR write ()
is compatible with
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3/POSIX,
.[
susv3
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42cr
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR LiS ,
.IR MacOT \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
The
.B SNDPIPE
write option is supported by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
This option is not documented in detail, but is present in
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.I LiS
and the GNU C Library header files.
.I POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
does not document this write option.
.IP
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not use the
.B SNDPIPE
write option, nor rely on
.BR I_SWROPT (7)
or
.BR I_GWROPT (7)
setting or returning the option, nor returning an error when it is specified as an argument.
.IP
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications programs will not rely on being sent a
.B SIGPIPE
signal, except for
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes, FIFOs and sockets, and then only under
.I POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
specified circumstances.
.IP \(em
The
.B SNDHOLD
write option bit is a
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
extension.
The
.B SO_STRHOLD
flag for the
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message is only briefly mentioned in the documentation for
.IR UXP/V \(rg.
.[
uxpdoc
.]
The
.B SO_STRHOLD
definition appears in
.IR Solaris \(rg
header files, however, it is noted as being no longer implemented.
The
.B SO_STRHOLD
definition appears in
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
header files and is implemented per the descriptions in the Magic Garden.
.[
magic
%O Section 7.9.5 \(lqWriting to a Stream\(rq,
%P p. 476
.]
.I The Magic Garden
.[
magic
.]
describes the
.B STRHOLD
STREAM head flags bit and the operation of the hold feature, but does not mention the
.B SO_STRHOLD
flag.
.IP
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not require that the STREAM head hold feature be implemented, whether or
not the
.B SO_STRHOLD
STREAM head option or the
.B STRHOLD
STREAM head flag are defined.
When these flags are defined, a portable
.I STREAMS
module or driver can attempt to invoke the feature, but cannot require that it be implemented.
.IP
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications programs will not use the
.B SNDHOLD
write option, and will not rely on the positive or negative behavior of 
.BR I_SWROPT (7)
with respect to this flag.
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
used to recognize the \(lqinvalid\(rq buffer length to
.BR write ()
used by
.I LiS
to emulate the
.I __NR_putpmsg
system call.
This is no longer the case.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
(as with current versions of
.IR LiS ),
.[
lis
.]
uses the
.B I_PUTPMSG
command to
.BR ioctl (2s)
to emulate the
.BR putpmsg (2s)
system call.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3/POSIX.
.[
susv3
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN, 4.3BSD.  SVr4 documents additional error
conditions EDEADLK, ENOLCK, ENOLNK, ENOSR, ENXIO, EPIPE, or ERANGE.
Under SVr4 a
.BR write ()
may be interrupted and return EINTR at any point, not just before any data is written. 
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR write ()
for
.I STREAMS
first appeared in
SVR 3.
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
