'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ap_bind.3.man,v 0.9.2.3 2007/11/10 19:40:48 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/10 19:40:48 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ap_bind.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/11/10 19:40:48  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/06 11:43:10  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:30  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_BIND 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ap_bind
\- Bind a Presentation Address to an XAP Instance
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface,
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libxap (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_bind(int " fd ", unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fP\ \(em'u
.I fd
a file descriptor corresponding to an XAP instance.
.PD 0
.TP
.I apperrno_p
an extent into which to place an error code when unsuccessful.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function associates the Presentation Address stored in the
.B AP_BIND_PADDR
environment variable with the XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
Instances specified by
.IR fd .
Upon successful completion the service provider may begin enqueueing incoming
associations or sending outbound associations requests.  All necessary
environment variables (e.g.
.BR AP_BIND_PADDR ,
.BR AP_ROLE_ALLOWED )
should be set prior to calling
.BR ap_bind ().
.PP
When this function is called, an attempt may be made to bind to the specified
address.  As a part of the bind procedure, an authorization check may be
performed to verify that all of the processes that share this XAP instance are
authorized to use the new address.  If all are authorized to do so, the bind
request will succeed and the XAP instance may be used to send (receive)
primitives from (addressed to) the new address.  Successfully calling this
function causes the state of XAP to move from
.BR AP_UNBOUND " to " AP_IDLE .
.PP
Some implementations may perform no authorization checking.  In this case the
.RB [ AP_ACCES ]
error response will not be returned.  Other implementations may defer binding
and authorization until a
.BR A_ASSOC_REQ " or " A_ASSOC_RSP
primitive is issued.  In this case, if the authorization check fails, the
.RB [ AP_ACCES ]
error will be returned by
.BR ap_snd (3).
The local address can be changed to an acceptable value and the primitive
reissued, or the connection can be closed.
.PP
An instance can be bound to a presentation address only if all of the processes
that share it are authorized to use the requested address.  Consequently, when
an attempt is made to bind an address, the effective UIDs of all of the
processes that share this instance of XAP may be checked against the list of
users allowed to use the requested address. If all are authorized to use the
address,
.BR ap_bind ()
succeeds and the instance is bound to the specified presentation address. On the
other hand, if any of the processes is not authorized to use the requested
address,
.BR ap_bind ()
fails and the instance remains unbound.
.I aperrno_p
must be set to point to a location which will be used to carry an error code
back to the user.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of zero
.RB ( 0 )
is returned. Otherwise, a value of
minus one
.RB ( -1 )
is returned and the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.TP \w'[\fBAP_BADNSAP\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ AP_ACCES ]
Request to bind to specified address denied.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADF ]
The
.I fd
parameter does not identify an XAP instance.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADNSAP ]
The format of the NSAP portion of the Presentation Address is not supported.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOENV ]
There is no XAP environment associated with
.IR fd .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/tp ", " /dev/streams/clone/tp
The OSI Transport Provider.
.TP
.BR /dev/oopi ", " /dev/streams/clone/oopi
The OSI Open Presentation Interface device.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.TP
.BR apmod (4)
An ACSE/Presentation Module named
.RB \*(lq apmod \*(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
In the OpenSS7 implementation,
.BR ap_open (3)
results in the opening of a Stream on the Transport Provider (TP),
.B /dev/tp
pseudo-device driver, and pushing of the ACSE/Presentation Module (APMOD),
.RB \*(lq apmod \*(rq.
This may also be accomplished by opening an device minor number on the TP
driver for which an autopush specification has been made, commonly called
.BR /dev/oopi .
Assigning
.B AP_BIND_PADDR
and, possibly,
.B AP_ROLE_ALLOWED
is accomplished using
.BR ap_set_env ().
This associates those attributes with the environment associated with the
Stream.  This is vague way of saying that these options are set on the Stream;
either in a library structure associated with the file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
by the library, or in a kernel resident structure associated with the Stream.
.PP
Multiple processes may have access to the same Stream which corresponds to
multiple processes having access to the same APLI or XAP instance.
On the other hand, multiple APLI or XAP instances may share the same transport
provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ap_set_env (3),
.BR ap_snd (3),
.BR XAP (3),
.BR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR ap_bind ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ap_bind ()
is compatible with XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and implementations based on XAP, such as
.IR "USL ONP\(rg" ,
.IR "Solaris\(rg Solstice OSI" ,
.IR "HP-UX\(rg OTS/9000" ,
.IR "AIX\(rg OSI/6000" ,
.IR "Digital\(rg DECnet/OSI" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
Only source compatibility is supported.  Binary compatibility is not
attempted: any exhibited binary compatibility is coincidental and is scheduled
to be removed on the next release.
.PP
See also,
.BR XAP (3)
and
.BR STREAMS (4),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_bind ()
first appeared in XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
In the older APLI library, there was no separate function for bind: binding was
enabled whenever the
.B AP_BIND_PADDR
environment variable was set.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4



