'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ap_error.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/09/29 14:08:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/09/29 14:08:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ap_error.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:30  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_ERROR 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ap_error
\- Return an error message.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.HP
.BI "char *ap_error(unsigned long " apperno );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I aperrno
The error number for which to return the error string.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function returns a pointer to a message that describes the error
indicated by
.IR aperrno .
The message is in the natural language of the currently defined
.BR LOCALE .
The pointer will point to
.B NULL
if no such message is available under the currently defined
.BR LOCALE .
For English language locales, the message will be one of the messages listed
under
.RB \(lq "ERROR STRINGS" ,\(rq
below.  The message pointer points to an internal buffer area.  If the caller
wishes to retain the message text, before calling
.BR ap_error ()
again, then the text should be copied to some private storage.
.PP
All error codes that are not XAP errors and thus do not map to error strings
will return a generic error string.
.SH "ERROR STRINGS"
.PP
Following are the English language error strings:
.TP \w'[\fBAP_SUCCESS_DATA_PENDING\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ AP_ACCES ]
.RI \(lq "Request to bind to specified address denied." \(rq
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ AP_AGAIN ]
.RI \(lq "Request not completed." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_AGAIN_DATA_PENDING ]
.RI \(lq "XAP was unable to complete the requested action.  Try again. There is an event available for the user to receive." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADATTRVAL ]
.RI \(lq "Bad value for environment attribute." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADALLOC ]
.RI \(lq "The ap_user_alloc/ap_user_dealloc argument combination was invalid." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADASLSYN ]
.RI \(lq "The transfer syntaxes proposed for the ACSE syntax are not supported." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_ACT_ID ]
.RI \(lq "Cdata field value invalid: act_id." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_DIAG ]
.RI \(lq "Cdata field value invalid: diag." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_EVT ]
.RI \(lq "Cdata field value invalid: event." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_OLD_ACT_ID ]
.RI \(lq "Cdata field value invalid: old_act_id." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_OLD_CONN_ID ]
.RI \(lq "Cdata field value invalid: old_conn_id." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_RES ]
.RI \(lq "Cdata field value invalid: res." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_RESYNC_TYPE ]
.RI \(lq "Cdata field value invalid: resync_type." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_RSN ]
.RI \(lq "Cdata field value invalid: rsn." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_SYNC_P_SYN ]
.RI \(lq "Cdata field value invalid: sync_p_sn." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_SYNC_TYPE ]
.RI \(lq "Cdata field value invalid: sync_type." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_TOKENS ]
.RI \(lq "Cdata field value invalid: tokens." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADDATA ]
.RI \(lq "User data not allowed on this service." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADENV ]
.RI \(lq "A mandatory attribute is not set." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADF ]
.RI \(lq "Not a presentation service endpoint." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADFLAGS ]
.RI \(lq "The specified combination of flags is invalid." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADFREE ]
.RI \(lq "Could not free structure members." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADKIND ]
.RI \(lq "Unknown struture type." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADLSTATE ]
.RI \(lq "Instance in bad state for that command." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADNSAP ]
.RI \(lq "The format of the NSAP portion of the Presentation Address is not supported." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADPARSE ]
.RI \(lq "Attribute parse failed." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADPRIM ]
.RI \(lq "Unrecognized primitive from user." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADRESTR ]
.RI \(lq "Attributes not restored due to more bit on." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADROLE ]
.RI \(lq "Request invalid due to value of AP_ROLE." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADSAVE ]
.RI \(lq "Attribtues not saved due to more bit on." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADSAVEF ]
.RI \(lq "Invalid FILE pointer." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADUBUF ]
.RI \(lq "Bad length for user data." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_DATA_OVERFLOW ]
.RI \(lq "User data and presentation service pci exceeds 512 bytes on session IV or the length of user data exceeds a locally defined limit, as state in the CSQ." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_HANGUP ]
.RI \(lq "Association close or aborted." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_LOOK ]
.RI \(lq "A pending event requires attention." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOATTR ]
.RI \(lq "No such attribute." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOBUF ]
.RI \(lq "Could not allocate enough buffers." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_NODATA ]
.RI \(lq "An attempt was made to send a primitive with no user data." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOENV ]
.RI \(lq "No environment for that fd." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOMEM ]
.RI \(lq "Could not allocate enough memory." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOREAD ]
.RI \(lq "Attribute is not readable." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOWRITE ]
.RI \(lq "Attribute is not writable." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_NO_PRECEDENCE ]
.RI \(lq "The resynchronization requested by the local user does not have precedence over the one requested by the remote user." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOT_SUPPORTED ]
.RI \(lq "The action requested is not supported by this implementation of XAP." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_PDUREJ ]
.RI \(lq "Invalid PDU rejected." \(rq
.TP
.RB [ AP_SUCCESS_DATA_PENDING ]
.RI \(lq "The requested action was completed successfully. There is an event available for the user to receive." \(rq
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon completion, a pointer to the appropriate error message is returned.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
No error conditions are reported by this function.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR xap (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR ap_error ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ap_error ()
is compatible with XAP.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XAP.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_error ()
first appeared in XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4



