'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ap_env.3.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-25 08:38:27 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-25 08:38:27 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ap_env.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-25 08:38:27  brian
.\" - working up libraries modules and drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/12/15 20:20:26  brian
.\" - updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:12  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_ENV 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ap_env
\- ACSE/Presentation environment attributes
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface,
APLI,
.[
apli unix international
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libapli (3),
.BR libxap (3).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_init_env(int " fd ", const char *" env_file ", int " flags ", unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.HP
.BI "int ap_get_env(int " fd ", unsigned long " attr ", void *" val ", unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
.TP
.I env_file
.TP
.I flags
.TP
.I attr
.TP
.I val
.TP
.I aperrno_p
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.SH STRUCTURES
.PP
.SS ap_objid_t
.PP
The \fBap_objid_t\fP structure is used to convey OBJECT IDENTIFIER values.
OBJECT IDENTIFIER values are stored as the contents octets of their encoded
form (without the tag or length octets), in a similar fashion to XOM.
.[
xom c607
.]
If the number of contents octets is greater than \fBAP_MAXOBJBUF\fP, the
contents octets are stored beginning at the memory location pointed to by
\fIlong_buf\fP.  Otherwise, the contents octets are stored in the
\fIshort_buf\fP array.  In both cases, \fIlength\fP gives the number of
contents octets in the OBJECT IDENTIFIER encoding.  The absense of an OBJECT
IDENTIFIER parameter is indicated by setting the \fIlength\fP field to zero
(\fB0\fP).
.PP
Routines to create and operate on objects of this type may be provided as
part of an Encode/Decode Library, but such routines are not part of the XAP
specification.
.[
xap c303
.]
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    long length;
    union {
        unsigned char short_buf[AP_MAXOBJBUF];
        unsigned char *long_buf;
    } b;
} ap_objid_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.SS ap_octet_string_t
.PP
The \fBap_octet_string_t\fP structure is used to convey OCTET STRING values.
OCTET STRING values are stored as the contents octets of their encoded form
(without the tag or length octets), in a similar fashion to XOM.
The \fIlength\fP member of this structure indicates the number of octets in the
OCTET STRING pointed to by the \fIdata\fP member.  To specify a null octet
string value, the length field of the \fBap_octet_string_t\fP structure is set
to zero (\fB0\fP).
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    long length;            /* Number of octets. */
    unsigned char *data;    /* Octets. */
} ap_octet_string_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.SS ap_apt_t
.PP
The \fBap_apt_t\fP structure is used to represent AP-title parameters.  AP-titles can be coded in
one of three forms:
1) X.500 distinguished Name,
2) OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
3) PrintableString.
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    int size;
    unsigned char *udata;
} ap_apt_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.SS ap_aeq_t
.PP
The \fBap_aeq_t\fP structure is used to represent AE-qualifier parameters.  AE-qualifiers can be
coded in one of three forms:
1) X.500 RelativeDistinguishedName,
2) INTEGER,
3) PrintableString.
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    int size;
    unsigned char *udata;
} ap_aeq_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.SS ap_aei_api_id_t
.PP
The \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP structure is used to represent AP-invocation-identifiers and
AE-invocation-identifiers.  These identifiers are INTEGER.
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    int size;
    unsigned char *udata;
} ap_aei_api_id_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.SS ap_diag_t
.PP
The \fBap_diag_t\fP structure is used to specify diagnostic characteristics.  It is defined as:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    long rsn;          /* reason for the abort */
    long evt;          /* event that caused abort */
    long src;          /* source of abort */
    char *error;       /* textual message */
} ap_diag_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I src
Can have one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBAP_UNEXPT_APDU_PARM\fP\(em'u
.B AP_ACSE_SERV_PROV
ACSE service provider.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_PRES_SERV_PROV
Presentation service provider.
.TP
.B AP_SESS_SERV_PROV
Session service provider.
.TP
.B AP_TRAN_SERV_PROV
Transport service provider.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I rsn
When \fIsrc\fP has the value \fBAP_ACSE_SERV_PROV\fP, \fIrsn\fP can have onf of
the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBAP_UNEXPT_APDU_PARM\fP\(em'u
.B AP_NSPEC
Not specified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_UNREC_APDU
Unrecognized APDU.
.TP
.B AP_UNEXPT_APDU
Unexpected APDU.
.TP
.B AP_UNREC_APDU_PARM
Unrecognized APDU parameter.
.TP
.B AP_UNEXPT_APDU_PARM
Unexpected APDU parameter.
.TP
.B AP_INVAL_APDU_PARM
Invalid APDU parameter.
.PD
.PP
When \fIsrc\fP has the value \fBAP_TRAN_SERV_PROV\fP, \fIrsn\fP can have onf o
the following values:
.TP \w'\fBAP_UNEXPT_APDU_PARM\fP\(em'u
.B AP_TRAN_DISCONNECT
Transport provider disconnect.
.PD 0
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I evt
When \fIsrc\fP has the value \fBAP_ACSE_SERV_PROV\fP, \fIevt\fP can have on of
the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBAP_UNEXPT_APDU_PARM\fP\(em'u
.B AP_AEI_AARQ
APDU was AARQ.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_AEI_AARE
APDU was AARE.
.TP
.B AP_AEI_RLRQ
APDU was RLRQ.
.TP
.B AP_AEI_RLRE
APDU was RLRE.
.TP
.B AP_AEI_ABRT
APDU was ABRT.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I error
.SS ap_ro_pci_list_t
.PP
The \fBap_ro_pci_list_t\fP structure is used to specify a list of abstract syntaxes that the ROPM is
to examine to identify incoming ROSE PDUs.  It is defined as:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    int size_pcil;
    int *pci_list;
} ap_ro_pci_list_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.SS ap_aaid_t
.PP
\fBap_aaid_t\fP is used to convey objects specified as ASN.1 type
ATOMIC-ACTION-IDENTIFIER
and is defined as:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    int size;
    unsigned char *udata;
} ap_aaid_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
\fIudata\fP is a pointer to a buffer of user encoded
ATOMIC-ACTION-IDENTIFIER;
\fIsize\fP is the length of that buffer in octets.
.SS ap_brid_t
.PP
\fBap_brid_t\fP is used to convey objects specified as ASN.1 type
BRANCH-IDENTIFIER
and is defined as:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    int size;
    unsigned char *udata;
} ap_brid_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
\fIudata\fP is a pointer to a buffer of user encoded
BRANCH-IDENTIFIER;
\fIsize\fP is the length of that buffer in octets.
.SS ap_cid_t
.PP
\fBap_cid_t\fP is used to convey
control identifier values,
and is defined as:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    int size;
    unsigned char *udata;
} ap_cid_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
\fIudata\fP is a pointer to a buffer containg the
control identifier;
\fIsize\fP is the length of that buffer in octets.
.SS ap_dtnid_t
.PP
\fBap_dtnid_t\fP is used to convey
Dialog Tree Node Identifiers
and is defined as:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    int size;
    unsigned char *udata;
} ap_dtnid_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
\fIudata\fP is a pointer to a buffer containing
a Dialog Tree Node Idnetifier;
\fIsize\fP is the length of that buffer in octets.
.SS ap_urch_t
.PP
\fBap_urch_t\fP is used to convey the user-assigned recovery context handle to which an instance is
bound,
and is defined as:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    int size;
    unsigned char *udata;
} ap_urch_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
\fIudata\fP is a pointer to a buffer containing
the user-assigned recovery context handle;
\fIsize\fP is the length of that buffer in octets, in the range 0 to 32.
.SS ap_tpaddr_t
.PP
\fBap_tpaddr_t\fP is used to convey the address to which an instance is bound and to declare the
allowable set of TPSUTs for a responder.  It is defined as:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ap_apt_t apt;
    ap_aei_api_id_t apid;
    ap_aeq_t aeq;
    ap_aei_api_id_t aeid;
    long n_tpsuts;
    ap_tpsut_t *tpsuts;
} ap_tpaddr_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
\fIapt\fP and \fIaeq\fP give the application entity title.  \fIapid\fP and \fIaeid\fP give the
application process invocation identifier and application entity invocation identifiers,
respectively.  The \fIn_tpsuts\fP element is used to specify the number of \fItpsut\fP comtponents
in the array \fItpsuts\fP.  Each element in the array \fItpsuts\fP holds a TP service user title.
.PP
When used to represet a wildcard TP service user title, the value of \fIn_tpsuts\fP shall be zero.
In this case, all locally-defined TP service user titles are implied.  In all other cases,
\fIn_tputs\fP must be positive.
.SS ap_tpsut_t
.PP
\fBap_tpsut_t\fP is used to convey objects specified as ASN.1 type
TPSU-title
and is defined as:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    int size;
    unsigned char *udata;
} ap_tpsut_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
\fIudata\fP is a pointer to a buffer of user encoded
TPSU-title;
\fIsize\fP is the length of that buffer in octets.
TPSU-title values are stored in their encoded form, including tag and length.
.PP
For optional PDU parameters of type TPSU-title, setting size to -1 indicates that the parameter is
not present.  IN an \fBap_tpaddr_t\fP structure, an element in the \fItpsuts\fP array having a
\fIsize\fP of -1 indicates an omitted TPSU-title.  Also, an optional parameter that corresponds to
an environment attribute may be specified to be absent by invoking ap_set_env(3) with a NULL pointer
as the \fIval\fP argument.
.SS ap_ttnid_t
.PP
\fBap_ttnid_t\fP is used to convey
locally-defined Transaction Tree Node Identifiers
and is defined as:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    int size;
    unsigned char *udata;
} ap_ttnid_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
\fIudata\fP is a pointer to a buffer of user-defined local transaction tree node identifier;
\fIsize\fP is the length of that buffer in octets.
.\"
.\" =====================================================================================
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.SS XAP Attributes
.PP
.TP
.B AP_LIB_AVAIL
The AP_LIB_AVAIL attribute indicates which versions of XAP are available to the user.
The available library versions.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_LIBVER1\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_LIB_SEL
The AP_LIB_SEL attribute is used to indicate which version of XAP is used. This attribute must be
set before any other attributes are set or any primitives are issued.
The selected library version.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_LIBVER1\fP and default none.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in state \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP.
.TP
.B AP_OPT_AVAIL
The AP_OPT_AVAIL attribute is used to indicate what optional functionality is supported in the
underlying protocol implementation. AP_XXXX_WILD indicates whether address wildcarding is supported
at the specified level. (XXXX can be NSAP, TSEL, SSEL or PSEL.) 
.RS
.TP \w'\fIAP_NSAP_WILD\fP\(em'u
.I AP_NSAP_WILD
NSAP can be wildcarded.
.PD 0
.TP
.I AP_TSEL_WILD
TSEL can be wildcarded.
.TP
.I AP_SSEL_WILD
SSEL can be wildcarded.
.TP
.I AP_PSEL_WILD
PSEL can be wildcarded.
.PD
.PP
The available options.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_NSAP_WILD\fP, \fIAP_TSEL_WILD\fP, \fIAP_SSEL_WILD\fP and \fIAP_PSEL_WILD\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_MODE_AVAIL
The AP_MODE_AVAIL attribute indicates the available modes of operation for XAP and Provider. The
modes that may be supported are normal (AP_NORMAL_MODE) and X.410-1984 (AP_X410_MODE).
The available modes.  This attribute represents the Presentation Mode selections supported by the
local presentaiton-entity.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_NORMAL_MODE\fP, \fIAP_X410_MODE\fP,
\fIAP_ROSE_MODE\fP and \fIAP_TP_MODE\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.sp
The AP_MODE_AVAIL attribute indicates the available modes of operation for XAP and provider.  The
modes that may be supported are those of XAP plus TP mode (AP_TP_MODE).  See also the XAP definition
of AP_MODE_AVAIL.
.sp
An additional flag, AP_ROSE_MODE is defined for this environment attribute.  If set, the service
provider specified in the call to ap_open(3) is capable of providing the ROSE service.  If this flag
is set, the equivalent flag in AP_MODE_SEL may be set to use the XAP-ROSE features of the service
provider.
.TP
.B AP_MODE_SEL
The AP_MODE_SEL attribute indicates the mode (normal or X.410-1984) in which XAP and Provider are to
be used. This value is used as the mode parameter of the CP PPDU. When this attribute is set to
AP_X410_MODE (indicating the X.410-1984 mode is in effect), certain other attributes are not used.
The readability and writability of these attributes is not affected; but their values will not be
used or updated by XAP. A list of the attributes that are not used in the X.410-1984il mode is
provided below.
.sp
Attributes Not Used in X.410-1984 Mode: AP_ACSE_AVAIL AP_CLD_APT AP_DPCN AP_PRES_SEL AP_ACSE_SEL
AP_CLG_AEID AP_DPCR AP_RSP_AEID AP_AFU_AVAIL AP_CLG_AEQ AP_PCDL AP_RSP_AEQ AP_AFU_SEL AP_CLG_APID
AP_PCDRL AP_RSP_APID AP_CLD_AEID AP_CLG_APT AP_PFU_AVAIL AP_RSP_APT AP_CLD_AEQ AP_CNTX_NAME
AP_PFU_SEL AP_CLD_APID AP_DCS AP_PRES_AVAIL
.sp
The AP_MODE_SEL attribute indicates the mode in which XAP and provider are to be used.  Only one
mode can be selected at a time.  A provide which supports only TP mode will have this attribute sete
to AP_TP_MODE as default.
.sp
An additional flag, AP_ROSE_MODE is defined for this environment attribute.  Setting this flag
cuases the functions, environment attributes and primitives defined by this specification are
initialized to their default state and become available to the service user.
.sp
Clearing the AP_ROSE_MODE flag in AP_MODE_SEL causes the XAP-ROSE functions, environment attributes
and primitives to become unavailable, and, if enabled, disables the ROSE protocol machine (ROPM).
.sp
This attribute is type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_NORMAL_MODE\fP, \fIAP_X410_MODE\fP,
\fIAP_ROSE_MODE\fP and \fIAP_TP_MODE\fP.  The attribute is readable always and writable only in
states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP, \fBAP_TP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_TP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_QLEN
The AP_QLEN attribute is used to indicate the number of connection indications that will be held by
the provider when all of the connection endpoints bound for listening at AP_BIND_PADDR are in use.
The user can set this attribute to request a specific queue size. The provider may change the value
if it cannot support the requested queue size or if another process bound to the same address has
already requested a larger queue. The user can determine the current queue size by examining the
value of AP_QLEN using ap_get_env( ).
.sp
The association indication queue length.
Type \fBlong\fP with default zero (0).
This attribute is readable always and writable only in state \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP.
.TP
.B AP_COPYENV
The AP_COPYENV attribute is used to indicate whether certain environment attributes that correspond
to parameters on the A-ASSOCIATE indication and confirmation services should be returned to the user
in the cdata argument of the ap_rcv( ) function. When the value of this attribute is TRUE, these
attributes are returned via the cdata argument.
.sp
Type \fBlong\fP with choice of \fITRUE\fP or \fIFALSE\fP and default \fIFALSE\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable always.
.TP
.B AP_DIAGNOSTIC
The AP_DIAGNOSTIC attribute is used to pass diagnostic details on error conditions reported by ACSE,
Presentation, Session and Transport providers, in addition to that conveyed with the A_PABORT_IND
primitive. This mechanism is used to provide descriptive text for all errors reported by XAP, and
may be used to provide additional diagnostic information (for example, errors in incoming APDUs
reported by the local ACPM, or the reason for a transport layer disconnect). It should be noted that
the information provided by this attribute is implementationdependent - that is, an implementation
may not report all of the source/reason/event combinations defined for this attribute.  However, if
an implementation does use the attribute to report diagnostic information, it must use the
classifications defined in this specification.
.sp
The additional diagnostic information.
Type \fBap_diag_t\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.\"
.\"
.SS TP Attributes
.PP
In XAP-TP, there are a set of attributes that apply to the node in the dialogue or transaction tree
rather than to a specific dialogue.  These are referred to as global attributes, and are accessible
through the environment of each instance tied to the node.
.PP
Setting the value of a global attribute through the environment of one instance changes the value
for all instances tied to the node.
.PP
The additional global TP attributes in the XAP-TP environment are:
.\"
.TP
.B AP_AAID
The AP_AAID attribute holds the Atomic Action Identifier of the transaction on the TPSUIs node in
the transaction tree.  If none of the dialogues of the TPSUI are in transaction mode, the attribute
holds the Atomic Action Identifier to be used for the next transaction to be commenced by the TPSUI.
.sp
The typeof this attribute is an \fBap_aaid_t\fP with default not present.
The attribute is readable always and writable in any state that the node is not in a transaction.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_NEXT_AAID
The AP_NEXT_AAID attribute holds the Atomic Action Identifier to be used for the next transaction on
the TPSUIs node in the transaction tree when chained transactions are in use.  If unset, a new AAID
will be generated by the TP service provider.
.sp
When the next transaction in a chain starts at a root node, the value in this attribute is used as
the Atomic Action Identifier for the transaction.  It is copied to the AP_AAID attribute and this
attribute is unset.  If the attribute is not set, the OSI TP implementation will generate a new
Atomic Activity Identifier and place it in the AP_AAID attribute.
.sp
This atribute is type \fBap_aaid_t\fP with default not present.
It is readable always and writable only in states AP_TP_WCOMMITind, AP_TP_COMMIT_WDONEreq,
AP_TP_WCOMMIT_COMPind, AP_TP_WROLL_COMPind, AP_TP_ZOMBIE, AP_TP_WRESUMEreq, AP_TP_RESUME,
AP_TP_WRESTARTreq, AP_TP_RESTART, AP_TP_W_RESTART_COMPLETEind.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_NEXT_TTNID
The AP_NEXT_TTNID holds the next Transaction Tree Node Identifier to be used to identify the next
transaction in a chain when chained transactions are in use.
.sp
When the next transaction in a chain commences at a node, the value of this attribute is copied to
the AP_TTNID attribute and this attribute is unset.  If chained transactions are in use, this
attribute must be set prior to issuing a TP_COMMIT_REQ primitive for commitment and prior to issuing
a TP_DONE_REQ primitive during rollback.
.sp
This atribute is type \fBap_ttnid_t\fP with default not present.
It is readable always and writable only in states AP_TP_WCOMMITind, AP_TP_COMMIT_WDONEreq,
AP_TP_WCOMMIT_COMPind, AP_TP_WROLL_COMPind, AP_TP_ZOMBIE, AP_TP_WRESUMEreq, AP_TP_RESUME,
AP_TP_WRESTARTreq, AP_TP_RESTART, AP_TP_W_RESTART_COMPLETEind.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_TP_STATE
The AP_TP_STATE attribute is used to convey state information about the single transaction node
identified by the AP_TTNID or AP_DTNID attribute.  It is used to determine which control category
primitives are legal.
.sp
Note: If the AP_TTNID or AP_DTNID does not identify a transaction node, its value is undefined.
This attribute only exists in the environment of XAP-TP instances with the AP_TP_CONTROL category
selected.
.sp
This attribute is of type \fBunsigned long\fP and is one of:
AP_TP_DATA_XFER,
AP_TP_RECV,
AP_TP_ERROR_RECV,
AP_TP_ERROR,
AP_TP_WHANDcnf,
AP_TP_WHANDrsp,
AP_TP_WHANDrsp_WHANDcnf,
AP_TP_WHANDcnf_WENDrsp,
AP_TP_WHANDrsp_WENDcnf,
AP_TP_WENDcnf,
AP_TP_WENDrsp,
AP_TP_WHAND_GCcnf,
AP_TP_WHAND_GCrsp,
AP_TP_WREADYind,
AP_TP_WREADYind_DATAP,
AP_TP_READY,
AP_TP_WPREP_ALLreq,
AP_TP_WPREP_ALLreq_DATAP,
AP_TP_PREPARING,
AP_TP_LOGGING_READY,
AP_TP_WCOMMITind,
AP_TP_COMMIT_WDONEreq,
AP_TP_WCOMMIT_COMPind,
AP_TP_ROLL_WDONEreq,
AP_TP_WROLL_COMPind,
AP_TP_ZOMBIE,
AP_TP_HEURISTIC_LOG.
It is readable always and writable never.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_TTNID
The AP_TTNID attribute holds the Transaction Tree Node Identifier of the TPSUI.  Setting the value
of the AP_TTNID attribute on an endpoint that does not have AP_TP_DIALOGUE set in AP_TP_CATEGORY
will have the effect of setting the value of the AP_DTNID attribute to not present.
.\"
.PP
The additional local TP attribtues in the XAP-TP environment are:
.\"
.TP
.B AP_BIND_TPADDR
The AP_BIND_TPADDR is used to indicate the address to which this instance of XAP is bound.
.sp
Setting this attribute and calling ap_bind(3) will result in the attributes AP_LCL_APT, AP_LCL_AEQ,
AP_LCL_APID and AP_LCL_AEID being set, and the set of allowable local TPSUIs being declared for a
RESPONDER.  A listener application may use a wildcard for the set of local TPSUIs and use the called
TPSUT (conveyed in AP_LCL_TPSUI) to dispatch dialogues.
.sp
The type of this attribute is a \fBap_tpaddr_t\fP with the default none.
The attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_TP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_TP_IDLE\fP.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_BRID
The AP_BRID attribute holds the Branch Identifier of the transaction branch on the instance.  If the
instance is not supporting a transaction branch, ti holds the branch identifier to be used for the
next transaction branch on the instance.
.sp
The type of this attribute is a \fBap_brid_t\fP with default not present.
The attribute is readable always and writable when the dialogue is not in a transaction.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_CONTROL_ID
The AP_CONTROL_ID attribute uniquely identifies a control isntance within a recovery context group
within an AET.
.sp
The type of this attribute is a \fBap_cid_t\fP with default not present.
The attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_TP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_TP_IDLE\fP.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_DTNID
The AP_DTNID attribute indicates to which node of the dialogue tree a dialogue on this instance
belongs.  Setting the value of AP_DTNID attribute on an endpoint that does not have AP_TP_DIALOGUE
set in AP_TP_CATEGORY will have the effect of setting the value of the AP_TINID attribute to not
present.
.sp
The type of this attribute is a \fBap_dtnid_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in state \fBAP_TP_IDLE\fP.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_LCL_AEID
The AP_LCL_AEID attribute holds the Application Entity Invocation Identifier of the TPSUI.
.sp
This attribute is not directly settable by the user.  However, setting the AP_BIND_TPADDR attribute
will result in this attribute being set to the AEID portion of that attribute.
.sp
This attribute is type \fBap_aei_apt_id_t\fP and is readable always and writable never.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_LCL_AEQ
The AP_LCL_AEQ attribute holds the Application Entity Qualifier of the TPSUI.
.sp
This attribute is not directly settable by the user.  However, setting the AP_BIND_TPADDR attribute
will result in this attribute being set to the AEQ portion of that attribute.
.sp
This attribute is type \fBap_aeq_t\fP and is readable always and writable never.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_LCL_APID
The AP_LCL_APID attribute holds the Application Process Invocation Identifier of the TPSUI.
.sp
This attribute is not directly settable by the user.  However, setting the AP_BIND_TPADDR attribute
will result in this attribute being set to the APID portion of that attribute.
.sp
This attribute is type \fBap_aei_apt_id_t\fP and is readable always and writable never.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_LCL_APT
The AP_LCL_APT attribute holds the Application Process Title of the TPSUI.
.sp
This attribute is not directly settable by the user.  However, setting the AP_BIND_TPADDR attribute
will result in this attribute being set to the APT portion of that attribute.
.sp
This attribute is type \fBap_apt_t\fP and is readable always and writable never.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_LCL_TPSUT
The AP_LCL_TPSUT attribute holds the TP service User Title of the TPSUI.
.sp
This attribute is type \fBap_tpsut_t\fP and is readable always and writable only in states
\fBAP_TP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_TP_IDLE\fP.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_NEXT_BRID
The AP_NEXT_BRID attribute holds the Branch Identifier to be used for the next transaction branch of
the dialogue when chained transactions are in use.  If unset, the existing Branch Identifier is
reused for the next transaction branch.
.sp
WHen the next transaction branch in a chain starts on a dialogue, the value in this attribute is
used as the Branch Identifier.  It is copied to the AP_BRID attribute and this attribute is unset.
If the attribute is not set, the existing Branch Identifier in AP_BRID will be reused for the new
transaction branch.
.sp
This atribute is type \fBap_brid_t\fP with default not present.
It is readable always and writable only in states AP_TP_WCOMMITind, AP_TP_COMMIT_WDONEreq,
AP_TP_WCOMMIT_COMPind, AP_TP_WROLL_COMPind, AP_TP_ZOMBIE, AP_TP_WRESUMEreq, AP_TP_RESUME,
AP_TP_WRESTARTreq, AP_TP_RESTART, AP_TP_W_RESTART_COMPLETEind.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_REM_AEID
The AP_REM_AEID attribute holds the Application Entity Invocation Identifier of the remote TPSUI.
This attribute is type \fBap_aei_apt_id_t\fP with default not present and is readable always and
writable only in states \fBAP_TP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_TP_IDLE\fP.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_REM_AEQ
The AP_REM_AEQ attribute holds the Application Entity Qualifier of the remote TPSUI.
This attribute is type \fBap_aeq_t\fP with default not present and is readable always and
writable only in states \fBAP_TP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_TP_IDLE\fP.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_REM_APID
The AP_REM_APID attribute holds the Application Process Invocation Identifier of the remote TPSUI.
This attribute is type \fBap_aei_apt_id_t\fP with default not present and is readable always and
writable only in states \fBAP_TP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_TP_IDLE\fP.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_REM_APT
The AP_REM_APT attreibute holds the Application Process Title of the remote TPSUI.
This attribute is type \fBap_apt_t\fP with default not present and is readable always and
writable only in states \fBAP_TP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_TP_IDLE\fP.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_REM_TPSUT
The AP_REM_TPSUT attribute holds the TP service User Title of the remote TPSUI.
This attribute is type \fBap_tpsut_t\fP with default not present and is readable always and
writable only in states \fBAP_TP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_TP_IDLE\fP.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_TPFU_AVAIL
The AP_TPFU_AVAIL attribute indicates which TP functional units are currently available.
This attribute is of type \fBunsigned long\fP and has bit values:
.RS
.TP
.I AP_TP_POLARIZED_CONTROL
.PD 0
.TP
.I AP_TP_SHARED_CONTROL
.TP
.I AP_TP_COMMIT_AND_CHAINED
.TP
.I AP_TP_COMMIT_AND_UNCHAINED
.TP
.I AP_TP_HANDSHAKE
.PD
.PP
It is readable always and writable never.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.B AP_TPFU_SEL
The AP_TPFU_SEL attribute indicates which TP functional units have been requested for use on the
current instance.
This attribute is of type \fBunsigned long\fP and has bit values:
.RS
.TP
.I AP_TP_POLARIZED_CONTROL
.PD 0
.TP
.I AP_TP_SHARED_CONTROL
.TP
.I AP_TP_COMMIT_AND_CHAINED
.TP
.I AP_TP_COMMIT_AND_UNCHAINED
.TP
.I AP_TP_HANDSHAKE
.PD
.PP
The default value is NULL.
It is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_TP_UNBOUND\fP
and \fBAP_TP_IDLE\fP.
.RE
.\"
.TP
.B AP_TP_AVAIL
The AP_TP_AVAIL attribute indicate which version of the TP protocol are currently available.
This attribute is of type \fBunsigned long\fP and has bit values: \fIAP_TPVER1\fP.  It is readable
always and writable never.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_TP_CATEGORY
The AP_TP_CATEGORY attribute holds the categories of TP primitives that are usable on the instance.
This attribute is of type \fBunsigned long\fP and has bit values: \fIAP_TP_DIALOGUE\fP and
\fIAP_TP_CONTROL\fP.  It is readable always and writable only in state \fBAP_TP_UNBOUND\fP.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_TP_COPYENV
The AP_TP_COPYENV attribute is used to indicate whether certain environment attributes that
corresponds to parameters on the TP-BEGIN-DIALOGUE and TP-BEGIN-TRANSACTION indications, or to
parameters on commit or log category indications, should be returned to the user in the \fIcdata\fP
argument of the ap_rcv(3) function.  When the value fot he attribute is \fITRUE\fP, these attributes
are returned via the \fIcdata\fP argument.
.sp
This attribute is of type \fBlong\fP and has values \fITRUE\fP or \fIFALSE\fP with default
\fPFALSE\fP.  It is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_TP_UNBOUND\fP and
\fBAP_TP_IDLE\fP.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_TP_SEL
The AP_TP_SEL attribute indicate which version of the TP protocol has been selected for use on the
current instance.
This attribute is of type \fBunsigned long\fP and has bit values: \fIAP_TPVER1\fP with default
\fIAP_TPVER1\fP.  It is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_TP_UNBOUND\fP and
\fBAP_TP_IDLE\fP.
.\"
.TP
.B AP_URCH
The AP_URCH uniquely identifies a group of transction nodes within an AET for recovery purposes.
This attribute is of type \fBap_urch_t\fP with default not present.  It is readable always and
writable only in states \fBAP_TP_UNBOUND\fP or \fBAP_TP_IDLE\fP.
.\"
.\"
.SS ROSE Attributes
.PP
.TP
.B AP_RO_FAC_AVAIL
The AP_RO_FAC_AVAIL attribute is used to indicate the availablity of facilities in the XAP-ROSE
provider.  The attribute is bit significant, and the following bit values are defined:
.RS
.TP
.I AP_RO_BIND
BIND/UNBIND primitives.
.PP
When a bit value is set in the attribute value the corresponding facility is available in the
XAP-ROSE provider, otherwise the facility is unavailable.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_RO_PCI_LIST
The AP_RO_PCI_LIST attribute is used to define those abstract syntaxes that the ROSE service
provider should examine for the presence of ROSE PDUs.  The attribute consists of a list of
presentation context identifiers (PCIs) for abstract syntaxes.  These PCIs are used to reference the
abstract syntaxes defined in the XAP environment variables AP_DCS, AP_PCDL or AP_PCDRL (depending on
the current state of the XAP-ROSE instance).
.sp
A value assigned to the AP_RO_PCI_LIST environment attribute is validated only when the ap_ro_init(3)
function is called.  At this piont, if the content of the list represents valid abstract syntaxes
for the association, the lsit will be used by the ROSE service provider to send and receive ROSE
PDUs.  Subsequent changes to the value of the AP_RO_PCI_LIST attribute will not take effect until
the ap_ro_init(3) function is called again.
.\"
.\"
.SS ACSE Attributes
.PP
.TP
.B AP_ACSE_AVAIL
The available ACSE protocol versions.
Indicates which version of the ACSE protocol are currently available.  Not
used in \*(lqX.410-1984\*(rq mode, see AP_MODE_SEL.
Defined bit values are as follows:
.RS
.TP \w'\fIAP_ACSEVER1\fP\(em'u
.I AP_ACSEVER1
ACSE protocol version 1.
.PP
When set to the \fINULL\fP bit-string (zero (0)), it indicates that the XAP provider cannot provide
an ACSE Layer at all.  In this case, the default value for \fBAP_ACSE_SEL\fP is \fINULL\fP.
.PP
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_ACSEVER1\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_ACSE_SEL
Indicates which version of the ACSE protocol has been selected for use with the current association.
Not use in "X.410-1984" mode, see \fBAP_MODE_SEL\fP.  For defined bit values, see
\fBAP_ACSE_AVAIL\fP.  The default value is \fIAP_ACSEVER1\fP, provided that \fBAP_ACSE_AVAIL\fP
includes \fIAP_ACSEVER1\fP, otherwise \fINULL\fP.
.sp
When this value is set to \fINULL\fP (zero (0)), it indicates that the ACSE layer is to be set to
NULL.  This means that ACSE Layer primitives such as \*(lq\fIA-ASSOCIATE request\fP\*(rq map
directly onto Presentation Layer primitives such as \*(lq\fIP-CONNECT request\fP\*(rq.
.sp
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_ASCEVER1\fP and default \fIAP_ACSEVER1\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_AFU_AVAIL
The available ACSE optional functional units.
Indicates which optional ACSE functional units are currently available.  Not used in
\*(lqX.410-1984\*(rq mode.
Defined bit values are:
.RS
.TP \w'\fIAP_ACSE_NESTASSOC\fP\(em'u
.I AP_ACSE_AUTH
Authentication functional unit.
.PD 0
.TP
.I AP_ACSE_CNTXNEG
Application/ASO Context Negotiation functional unit.
.TP
.I AP_ACSE_HLASSOC
Higher Level Association functional unit.
.TP
.I AP_ACSE_NESTASSOC
Nested Association functional unit.
.PD
.PP
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fINULL\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_AFU_SEL
The selected ACSE optional functional units.
Indicates which optional ACSE functional units have been requested for use over the current
association. Not used in \*(lqX.410-1984\*(rq mode.
Defined bit values are listed under \fBAP_AFU_AVAIL\fP.  The default value is the \fINULL\fP
bit-string indicating that only the non-negotiable kernel functional unit is present.
.sp
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fINULL\fP and default \fINULL\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOC_ind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CNTX_NAME
The AP_CNTX_NAME attribute is the application-context-name parameter of the AARQ and AARE APDUs. See
the discussion of the ap_objid_t data type for information about how the absence of this parameter
is indicated. This attribute is not used in the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the
AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
The application/ASO context name.
Type \fBap_objid_t\fP with default none.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
The Application/ASO context name may only be written in the \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP state when
the XAP instance selects the Application/ASO context name negotiation functional unit.
Changing this value in any other state requires use of the P_ALTERCNTX_REQ, P_ALTERCNTX_IND,
P_ALTERCNTX_RSP and P_ALTERCNTX_CNF primitives, which are only available when the Application/ASO
Context Negotiation functional unit is selected.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B AP_ROLE_ALLOWED
The \fBAP_ROLE_ALLOWED\fP parameter is used to specify how an instance of XAP may be used.
Specifically, the value of this attribute indicates whether the XAP instance may be used to send an
\fBA_ASSOC_REQ\fP primitive, receive an \fBA_ASSOC_IND\fP primitive, or both. Note that this
attribute only affects the roles that an instance of XAP may play with respect to association
establishment.  Changing the value of this attribute will not affect the way in which XAP
participates in an association that has already been established. It should be noted that an
\fBA_ASSOC_IND\fP primitive may be received even after this attribute has been set to prohibit
receipt of association indications if \fBAP_ROLE_ALLOWED\fP is set to \fIAP_INITIATOR\fP while the
XAP instance is in the \fIAP_IDLE\fP state. This situation occurs when the \fBA_ASSOC_IND\fP
primitive has been queued prior to setting \fBAP_ROLE_ALLOWED\fP to \fIAP_INITIATOR\fP. To avoid
this situation, the \fBAP_ROLE_ALLOWED\fP attribute should be set before the XAP instance is bound
to a presentation address if it will only be used to initiate associations.
.RS
.TP \w'\fIAP_INITIATOR\fP\(em'u
.I AP_INITIATOR
XAP instance may act in the association-initiator role.
.PD 0
.TP
.I AP_REPSONDER
XAP instance may act in the association-responder role.
.PD
.PP
The allowed roles.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_INITIATOR\fP and \fIAP_RESPONDER\fP with default values \fIAP_INITIATOR\fP and \fIAP_RESPONDER\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable always.
.PP
The AP_ROLE_ALLOWED attribute is used to specify how an XAP-TP instance may be used.  Specifically,
the value to this attribute indicates whether the XAP-TP instance may be used to send a
TP_BEGIN_DIALOGUE_REQ primitive, receive a TP_BEING_DIALOGUE_IND primitive, or both.
.PP
Notes:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
This attribute only affects the roles that an XAP-TP instance may plat with respect to dialogue
establishment.  Changing the value of this attribute will not affect the way in which XAP-TP
participates in a dialogue that has already been established.
.IP 2.
A TP_BEGIN_DIALOGUE_IND primitive may be received even after this attribute has been set to
AP_INITIATOR in the AP_TP_IDLE state.  This situation occurs when AP_ROLE_ALLOWED included the value
AP_RESPONDER and a TP_BEGIN_DIALOGUE_IND has been queued prior to setting AP_ROLE_ALLOWED to
AP_INITIATOR.  To avoid this situation, the AP_ROLE_ALLOWED attribute should be set before the
XAP-TP instance is bound to an address if it will only be used to initiate dialogues.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B AP_ROLE_CURRENT
The \fBAP_ROLE_CURRENT\fP attribute indicates the role of the local user in the current association.
The attribute is set to \fIAP_INITIATOR\fP as soon as an \fBA_ASSOC_REQ\fP primitive is sent and
remains unchanged until the association is rejected or subsequently terminated.  Similarly, the
attribute is set to \fIAP_RESPONDER\fP upon receipt of an \fBA_ASSOC_IND\fP and left unchanged until
the association is terminated.
Bit values are as defined for \fBAP_ROLE_ALLOWED\fP.
.sp
The current role.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_INITIATOR\fP and \fIAP_RESPONDER\fP.
This attribute is readable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP and is writable never.
.sp
The AP_ROLE_CURRENT attribute indicates the role of the user in the current dialogue.  The attribute
is set to AP_INITIATOR as soon as a TP_BEGIN_DIALOGUE_REQ is sent, and remains unchanged until the
dialogue is rejected or terminated.  SImilarly, the attribute is set to AP_RESPONDER upon receipt of
a TP_BEGIN_DIALOGUE_IND and remains unchanged until the dialogue is terminated.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_APT
The calling application process title (AP-title).
This is either a distinguished name (form1), object identifier (form2) or printable string (form3).
Note that an AE-title may be formed by combining the AP-title and AE-qualifier.
.sp
The AP_CLG_APT is the calling AP-title parameter of the AARQ APDU. See the description of the
ap_apt_t data type for information about how its absence is indicated. This attribute is not used in
the X.410-1984 mode.
.sp
Type \fBap_apt_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_AEQ
The calling application entity qualifier (AE-qualifier).
This is either a relative distinguished name (form1), an integer (form2) or printable string (form3).
Note that an AE-title may be formed by combining the AP-title and AE-qualifier.
.sp
The AP_CLG_AEQ is the calling AE-qualifier parameter of the AARQ APDU. See the description of the
ap_aeq_t data type for information about how its absence is indicated. This attribute is not used in
the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
Type \fBap_aeq_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_APID
The calling application process invocation-identifier (AP-invocation-identifier).
The AP_CLG_APID is the calling AP-invocation-identifier parameter of the AARQ APDU. This attribute
is not used in the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_AEID
The calling application entity invocation-identifier (AE-invocation-identifier).
The AP_CLG_AEID is the calling AE-invocation-identifier parameter of the AARQ APDU. This attribute
is not used in the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_APT
The called application process title (AP-title).
This is either a distinguished name (form1), object identifier (form2) or printable string (form3).
Note that an AE-title may be formed by combining the AP-title and AE-qualifier.
.sp
The AP_CLD_APT is the called AP-title parameter of the AARQ APDU. This attribute is not used in the
X.410-1984te mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
Type \fBap_apt_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_AEQ
The called application entity qualifier (AE-qualifier).
This is either a relative distinguished name (form1), an integer (form2) or printable string (form3).
Note that an AE-title may be formed by combining the AP-title and AE-qualifier.
.sp
The AP_CLD_AEQ is the called AE-qualifier parameter of the AARQ APDU. This attribute is not used in
the X.410-1984if mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
Type \fBap_aeq_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_APID
The called application process invocation-identifier (AP-invocation-identifier).
The AP_CLD_APID is the called AP invocation identifier parameter of the AARQ APDU. This attribute is
not used in the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_AEID
The called application entity invocation-identifier (AE-invocation-identifier).
The AP_CLD_AEID is the called AE invocation identifier parameter of the AARQ APDU. This attribute is
not used in the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_RSP_APT
The responding application process title (AP-title).
This is either a distinguished name (form1), object identifier (form2) or printable string (form3).
Note that an AE-title may be formed by combining the AP-title and AE-qualifier.
.sp
The AP_RSP_APT is the responding AP-title parameter of the AARE APDU. This attribute is not used in
the X.410-1984ar mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
Type \fBap_apt_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_RSP_AEQ
The responding application entity qualifier (AE-qualifier).
This is either a relative distinguished name (form1), an integer (form2) or printable string (form3).
Note that an AE-title may be formed by combining the AP-title and AE-qualifier.
.sp
The AP_RSP_AEQ is the responding AE-qualifier parameter of the AARE APDU. See the description of the
ap_aeq_t data type for information about how its absence is indicated. This attribute is not used in
the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
Type \fBap_aeq_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_RSP_APID
The responding application process invocation-identifier (AP-invocation-identifier).
The AP_RSP_APID is the responding AP invocation identifier parameter of the AARE APDU.  This
attribute is not used in the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_RSP_AEID
The responding application entity invocation-identifier (AE-invocation-identifier).
The AP_RSP_AEID is the responding AE invocation identifier parameter of the AARE APDU.  This
attribute is not used in the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_STATE
.sp
The AP_STATE attribute is used to convey state information about the XAP-TP interface.  It is used
to determine which primitives are legal and which attributes can be read/written.
.sp
For XAP-TP, the state is of type \fBlong\fP and is one of:
AP_TP_UNBOUND,
AP_TP_IDLE,
AP_TP_WALLOCcnf,
AP_TP_ALLOCATED,
AP_TP_DATA_XFER,
AP_TP_RECV,
AP_TP_ERROR_RECV,
AP_TP_ERROR,
AP_TP_WHANDcnf,
AP_TP_WHANDrsp,
AP_TP_WHANDrsp_WHANDcnf,
AP_TP_WHANDcnf_WENDrsp,
AP_TP_WHANDrsp_WENDcnf,
AP_TP_WENDcnf,
AP_TP_WENDrsp,
AP_TP_WHAND_GCcnf,
AP_TP_WHAND_CGrsp,
AP_TP_WREADYind,
AP_TP_WREADYind_DATAP,
AP_TP_READY,
AP_TP_WPREP_ALLreq,
AP_TP_WPREP_ALLreq_DATAP,
AP_TP_PREPARING,
AP_TP_LOGGING_READY,
AP_TP_WCOMMITind,
AP_TP_COMMIT_WDONEreq,
AP_TP_WCOMMIT_COMPind,
AP_TP_ROLL_WDONEreq,
AP_TP_WROLL_COMPind,
AP_TP_ZOMBIE,
AP_TP_WRESUMEreq,
AP_TP_RESUME,
AP_TP_WRESTARTreq,
AP_TP_RESTART,
AP_TP_WRESTART_COMPLETEind.
.\"
.\"
.SS Presentation Attributes
.PP
.TP
.B AP_PRES_AVAIL
The AP_PRES_AVAIL attribute indicates which versions of the Presentation Layer protocol are
currently available. This attribute is not used in the X.410-1984ti mode.
.sp
The available presentation versions.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_PRESVER1\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_PRES_SEL
The AP_PRES_SEL attribute indicates which version of the Presentation Layer protocol has been
selected for use with the current association. This attribute is not used in the X.410-1984ia mode.
Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
The selected presentation version.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_PRESVER1\fP and default \fIAP_PRESVER1\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_PFU_AVAIL
The AP_PFU_AVAIL attribute indicates which optional Presentation functional units are currently
available. This attribute is not used in the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the
AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
The available optional presentation functional units.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fINULL\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_PFU_SEL
The AP_PFU_SEL attribute indicates which optional Presentation Layer functional units have been
requested for use over the current association. This attribute is not used in the X.410-1984 a mode.
Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
The selected optional presentation functional units.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fINULL\fP and default \fINULL\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in stats \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_BIND_PADDR
The AP_BIND_PADDR attribute is used to indicate the address to which this isntance of XAP will be
bound when ap_bind(3) is called.  Setting this attribute will result in the attribute AP_LCL_PADDR
being set to the same value.  Nevertheless, the attributes AP_BIND_PADDR and AP_LCL_PADDR do not
always have the same value.  For example, a listener application might set thte AP_BIND_PADDR to a
wildcard address and use the called address (conveyed by the AP_LCL_PADDR attribute) specified in
each indication primtive to dispatach associations.
.sp
The bind presentation address.
Type \fBap_paddr_t\fP with default \fINULL\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_LCL_PADDR
The AP_LCL_PADDR attribute holds the value used as the presentation address of the local entity. If
the local entity is the initiator of an association, this value will be used as the calling
presentation address. If the local entity is the association-responder, this value will be used as
the called presentation address when the A_ASSOC_IND primitive is received and as the responding
presentation address when the A_ASSOC_RSP primitive is issued. This attribute is not directly
settable by the user. However, setting the AP_BIND_PADDR attribute will result in the AP_LCL_PADDR
attribute being set to the same value. Nevertheless, the attributes AP_BIND_PADDR and AP_LCL_PADDR
do not always have the same value. For example, a listener application might set the AP_BIND_PADDR
to a wildcard address and use the called address (conveyed by the AP_LCL_PADDR attribute) specified
in each indication primitive to dispatch associations. 
.sp
The local presentation address.
Type \fBap_paddr_t\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_REM_PADDR
The AP_REM_PADDR attribute holds the value used as the presentation address of the remote entity. If
the local entity is the initiator of an association, this value is the called presentation address.
If the local entity is the association-responder, this value is the calling presentation address.
.sp
The remote presentation address.
Type \fBap_paddr_t\fP with default none.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_DCS
The AP_DCS attribute is the defined context set. The defined context set contains the abstract
syntax/transfer syntax pairs that were negotiated when the association was established, together
with the presentation context identifier that identifies the pair.  The value of AP_DCS shall be
empty (size field of 0) in the states AP_IDLE and AP_WASSOCcnf_ASSOCreq, it shall contain the ACSE
context negotiated by XAP in the state AP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind, and it shall contain the fully
negotiated defined context set in all other states. Note that the defined context set contains both
the presentation contexts that were negotiated by the user (using AP_PCDL and AP_PCDRL) and any
additional presentation contexts that were negotiated by XAP or provider. For example, the ACSE
context (i.e., {joint-iso-ccitt 2 1 0 1}) will be negotiated automatically and will appear in the
defined context set after negotiation is complete. This attribute is not used in the X.410-1984
mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
The Defined Context Set.
.[
x216
.]
This environment attribute represents the Defined-Context-Set (DCS) for the presentation connection
as communicated to the PS-User.
Type \fBap_dcs_t\fP.
This attribute is readable in states other than \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_DPCN
The AP_DPCN attribute is the default-context-name parameter of the CP PPDU. This attribute is not
used in the X.410-1984t- mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
The Default Presentation Context Name (Default-context-name).
.[
x216
.]
Type \fBap_dcn_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP. 
In the initiator role, Defining an \fBAP_DPCN\fP prior to \fBA_ASSOC_REQ\fP will cause the
Default-context-name parameter to be included in the \fIP-CONNECT request\fP.  In the responder
role, \fbAP_DPCN\fP in conjunction with the \fBAP_DPCR\fP attribute will reflect the initiator's
proposed Default-context-name.
.TP
.B AP_DPCR
The AP_DPCR attribute is the default-context-result parameter of the CPR PPDU. Since the user is
responsible for encoding and decoding of user-data, it is the user s responsibility to accept or
reject any proposed default-presentation-context. The value, AP_DPCR_NOVAL, indicates that it is not
present. This attribute is not used in the X.410-1984se mode. Refer to the description of the
AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.RS
.TP \w'\fIAC_DPCR_PROV_REJ\fP\(em'u
.I AC_DPCR_NOVAL
No value was proposed as a AC_DPCN (Default-context-name).
.PD 0
.TP
.I AC_DPCR_ACCEPT
The proposed value of Default-context-name is accepted by both provider and user.
.TP
.I AC_DPCR_USER_REJ
The proposed value of Default-context-name was rejected by the user.
.TP
.I AC_DPCR_PROV_REJ
The proposed value of Default-context-name was rejected by the provider.
.PD
.PP
The Default Presentation Context Result (Default-context-result).
.[
x216
.]
Type \fBlong\fP with choice of \fIAP_DPCR_NOVAL\fP, \fIAP_ACCEPT\fP, \fIAP_USER_REJ\fP or \fIAP_PROV_REJ\fP and default \fIAP_DPCR_NOVAL\fP.
This attribute is readable only in state \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP and writable only in state \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOC_ind\fP.
When an A_ASSOC_IND event is received, the value of this attribute represents the state of the
default presentation context.  If the peer did not propose a Default-context-name, the value of this
attribute will be \fIAP_DPCR_NOVAL\fP, and writing the value is not permitted.  If the peer proposed
a Default-context-name that will be rejected by the provider, the value will be \fIAP_PROV_REJ\fP
and writing the value is not permitted.  The \fBAP_DPCN\fP attribute will contain the rejected
proposed default.  If the peer proposed a Default-context-name that is acceptable to the provider,
the value will be \fIAP_ACCEPT\fP and the user may override this by writing \fIAP_USER_REJ\fP to the
attribute before issuing an \fBA_ASSOC_RSP\fP.  The \fBAP_DPCN\fP attribute will contain the
acceptable Default-context-name.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_PCDL
The AP_PCDL attribute is used to propose the list of presentation contexts to be used on the
connection. The association-initiator sets this list to indicate the contexts it wishes to use for
encoding user data on the association. Since the user is responsible for all encoding and decoding
of user data, the proposed transfer syntaxes for each proposed abstract syntax must be included in
the list proposed by the association-initiator user. For the association-responder, the list
indicates which presentation contexts are being requested by the association-initiator for use on
the association. The association-initiator may specify the ACSE context in AP_PCDL, although it is
not required to do so. If the association-initiator does not supply the ACSE context in AP_PCDL, XAP
supplies it automatically for the association. Regardless of whether or not the
association-initiator supplies the ACSE context, it is not provided to the associationresponder in
AP_PCDL (the responding user may obtain it from AP_DCS if required). This attribute is not used in
the X.410-1984t mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
The presentation context definition list.
Type \fBap_cdl_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_PCDRL
The AP_PCDRL attribute is used to indicate whether the presentation contexts proposed in the
presentation context definition list have been accepted or rejected. The associationresponder uses
this attribute to indicate which of the proposed presentation contexts are acceptable before issuing
the A_ASSOC_RSP primitive. For the association-initiator, this attribute indicates the remote userOs
response to the proposed presentation contexts, received in the A_ASSOC_CNF primitive. Each entry in
AP_PCDRL corresponds one-to-one with an entry in AP_PCDL which, in the case of the responder, never
contains the proposed ACSE context. The associationresponder has an opportunity to accept or reject
each of the proposed contexts that are indicated in AP_PCDL. The ACSE context is automatically
accepted by XAP, and appears in the value of AP_DCS. This attribute is not used in the X.410-1984
mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.sp
.SS Session Attributes
.PP
.TP
.B AP_SESS_AVAIL
The AP_SESS_AVAIL attribute indicates which versions of the Session Layer protocol are currently
available.
.RS
.TP
.I AP_SESSVER1
Session Protocol Version 1.
.PD 0
.TP
.I AP_SESSVER2
Session Protocol Version 2.
.PD
.PP
The availale session versions.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_SESSVER1\fP and \fIAP_SESSVER2\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_SESS_SEL
The AP_SESS_SEL attribute indicates which version of the Session Layer protocol has been selected
for use with the current association.
.sp
The selected session version.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_SESSVER1\fP and \fIAP_SESSVER2\fP and default \fIAP_SESSVER2\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_SESS_OPT_AVAIL
The AP_SESS_OPT_AVAIL attribute is used to indicate which optional session capabilities are
available through the XAP interface. If the AP_UCBC flag is set, the underlying provider supports
user control of basic concatenation. If the AP_UCEC flag is set, the underlying provider supports
user control of extended concatenation. For further information, refer to ap_snd( ) and the Session
Layer protocol specification.
.sp
The available session options.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_UCBC\fP and \fIAP_UCEC\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_SFU_AVAIL
The AP_SFU_AVAIL attribute indicates which Session Layer functional units are currently available.
The value of this attribute may affect the value of AP_TOKENS_AVAIL.
.sp
The available session functional units.
Type \fBunsigned long \fP with bit values \fIAP_SESS_HALFDUPLEX\fP, \fIAP_SESS_DUPLEX\fP, \fIAP_SESS_XDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_MINORSYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_MAJORSYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_RESYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_ACTMGMT\fP, \fIAP_SESS_NEGREL\fP, \fIAP_SESS_CDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_EXCEPT\fP, \fIAP_SESS_TDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_DATASEP\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
An additional value should be added, \fIAP_SESS_NOORDREL\fP, for avialability and selection of the No-orderly-release functional unit of \*(lqITU-T Rec. X.215 (1995)/Amd.1 (1997)\*(rq.
An additional value should be added, \fIAP_SESS_NESTCON\fP, for availability and selection of the Nested-connections functional unit of \*(lqITU-T Rec. X.215 (1995)/Amd.2 (1997)\*(rq.
.TP
.B AP_SFU_SEL
The AP_SFU_SEL attribute indicates which Session Layer functional units have been requested for use
over the current association.
.sp
The selected session functional units.
Type \fBunsigned long \fP with bit values \fIAP_SESS_HALFDUPLEX\fP, \fIAP_SESS_DUPLEX\fP, \fIAP_SESS_XDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_MINORSYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_MAJORSYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_RESYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_ACTMGMT\fP, \fIAP_SESS_NEGREL\fP, \fIAP_SESS_CDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_EXCEPT\fP, \fIAP_SESS_TDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_DATASEP\fP and default \fIAP_SESS_DUPLEX\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
An additional value should be added, \fIAP_SESS_NOORDREL\fP, for avialability and selection of the No-orderly-release functional unit of \*(lqITU-T Rec. X.215 (1995)/Amd.1 (1997)\*(rq.
An additional value should be added, \fIAP_SESS_NESTCON\fP, for availability and selection of the Nested-connections functional unit of \*(lqITU-T Rec. X.215 (1995)/Amd.2 (1997)\*(rq.
.TP
.B AP_QOS
The AP_QOS attribute is used to specify the quality of service requirements for the association. It
holds the ranges of QOS values that the XAP user is willing to accept.
.sp
The association quality of service.
Type \fBap_qos_t\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_CONN_ID
The AP_CLG_CONN_ID attribute conveys the value of the session connection identifier that was
proposed by the association-initiator.
.sp
The calling session connection identifier.
Type \fBap_conn_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_CONN_ID
The AP_CLD_CONN_ID attribute conveys the value of the session connection identifier that was
proposed by the association-responder.
.sp
The called session connection identifier.
Type \fBap_conn_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.TP
.B AP_OLD_CONN_ID
The AP_OLD_CONN_ID attribute conveys the values of the session connection identifiers from a
previous session.
.sp
The old connection identifier.
Type \fBap_old_conn_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.TP
.B AP_TOKENS_AVAIL
A token is an attribute of an association which is dynamically assigned to one user at a time. The
user that possesses a token has exclusive rights to initiate the service which that token
represents. The AP_TOKENS_AVAIL attribute indicates which tokens are available for assignment on
this association. The value of this attribute is dependent on AP_SFU_SEL.
.RS
.TP
.I AP_DATA_TOK
Data Token
.PD 0
.TP
.I AP_SYNCMINOR_TOK
Minor Synchronization Token
.TP
.I AP_MAJACT_TOK
Major Activity Token
.TP
.I AP_RELEASE_TOK
Release Token
.PD
.PP
The available presentation tokens.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_DATA_TOK\fP, \fIAP_SYNCMINOR_TOK\fP, \fIAP_MAJACT_TOK\fP, \fIAP_RELEASE_TOK\fP.
This attribute is readable in any states except \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP, \fBAP_WASSOCcnf_ASSOCreq\fP, \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP and writable never.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_TOKENS_OWNED
The AP_TOKENS_OWNED attribute indicates which available tokens (see AP_TOKENS_AVAIL) are currently
assigned to the user. The user has exclusive rights to initiate the service represented by each of
the tokens owned. The value of this attribute is affected by AP_INIT_TOKENS.
.sp
The owned presentation tokens.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_DATA_TOK\fP, \fIAP_SYNCMINOR_TOK\fP, \fIAP_MAJACT_TOK\fP, \fIAP_RELEASE_TOK\fP.
This attribute is readable in any states except \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP, \fBAP_WASSOCcnf_ASSOCreq\fP, \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP and writable never.
.TP
.B AP_MSTATE
If the XAP instance is awaiting additional data from the user (the last ap_snd( ) call had the AP_MORE
bit set), the AP_SNDMORE bit in AP_MSTATE is set. If there is more user data for the current service
(the last call to ap_rcv( ) returned with the AP_MORE bit set) then AP_RCVMORE bit is set. (Note
that it is possible for both bits to be set.)
.sp
The segmentation state.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_SNDMORE\fP and \fIAP_RCVMORE\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.


.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The OpenSS7 XAP Library is compatible with other XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
implementaions, with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The OpenSS7 XAP Library supports \fINULL\fP bit-strings for the AP_ACSE_AVAIL, AP_ACSE_SEL,
AP_PRES_AVAIL, AP_PRES_SEL, AP_SESS_AVAIL and AP_SESS_SEL environment attributes.  When the
corresponding bit-string is \fINULL\fP, it indicates that either the entire layer is unavailable, or
the entire layer is removed (\fINULL\fP) and service primitives for the layer are mapped directly
onto service primitives for the lower layer.
.sp
This is not specified in XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and is inherently non-portable.  Portable XAP programs will not reply upon this capability.
.IP \(em
Four additional bit values are defined for the \fBAP_AFU_AVAIL\fP and \fBAP_AFU_SEL\fP environment
attributes: \fIAP_ACSE_AUTH\fP, \fIAP_ACSE_CNTXNEG\fP, \fIAP_ACSE_HLASSOC\fP,
\fIAP_ACSE_NESTASSOC\fP.
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
See
.BR XAP (3)
for additional information.
