'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ap_errno.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/11/06 11:43:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/06 11:43:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ap_errno.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:12  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_ERRNO 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ap_errno
\- APLI error codes.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface,
APLI,
.[
APLI UNIX International
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ap_lib.h>
.br
.B #include <osi_lib.h>
.PP
.nf
#define AP_ACCES                 1      /* Request to bind specified address denied. */
#define AP_AGAIN                 2      /* Request not completed. */
#define AP_BADATTRVAL            3      /* Bad value for environment attribute. */
#define AP_BADCD_ACT_ID          4      /* Cdata field value invalid: act_id. */
#define AP_BADCD_DIAG            5      /* Cdata field value invalid: diag. */
#define AP_BADCD_EVT             6      /* Cdata field value invalid: env. */
#define AP_BADCD_OLD_ACT_ID      7      /* Cdata field value invalid: old_act_id. */
#define AP_BADCD_OLD_CONN_ID     8      /* Cdata field value invalid: old_conn_id. */
#define AP_BADCD_RES            10      /* Cdata field value invalid: res. */
#define AP_BADCD_RESYNC_TYPE    12      /* Cdata field value invalid: resync_type. */
#define AP_BADCD_RSN            13      /* Cdata field value invalid: rsn. */
#define AP_BADCD_SYNC_P_SN      15      /* Cdata field value invalid: sync_p_sn. */
#define AP_BADCD_SYNC_TYPE      16      /* Cdata field value invalid: sync_type. */
#define AP_BADCD_TOKENS         17      /* Cdata field value invalid: tokens. */
#define AP_BADENV               19      /* A mandatory attriute is not set. */
#define AP_BADF                 20      /* Not a presentation service endpoint. */
#define AP_BADFLAGS             21      /* The specified combination of flags is invalid.  */
#define AP_BADFREE              22      /* Could not free structure members. */
#define AP_BADKIND              23      /* Unknown structure type. */
#define AP_BADLSTATE            24      /* Instance in bad state for that command. */
#define AP_BADPARSE             25      /* Attribute parse failed. */
#define AP_BADPRIM              26      /* Unrecognized primitive from user. */
#define AP_BADRESTR             27      /* Attributes not restored due to more bit on. */
#define AP_BADROLE              28      /* Request invalid due to value of AP_ROLE. */
#define AP_BADSAVE              29      /* Attributes not save due to more bit on. */
#define AP_BADSAVEF             30      /* Invalid FILE pointer. */
#define AP_HANGUP               32      /* Assocation closed or aborted. */
#define AP_LOOK                 34      /* A pending event requires attention. */
#define AP_NOATTR               35      /* No such attribute. */
#define AP_NOENV                36      /* No environment for that fd. */
#define AP_NOMEM                37      /* Could not allocate enough memory. */
#define AP_NOREAD               38      /* Attribute is not readable. */
#define AP_NOWRITE              40      /* Attribute is not writable. */
#define AP_PDUREJ               41      /* Invalid PDU rejected. */

#define AP_NOERROR               0      /* No error. (Not XAP.) */
#define AP_BADCD_PABORT_IND      9      /* Cdata field value invalid: pabort_ind. (Not XAP.) */
#define AP_BADCD_RES_SRC        11      /* Cdata field value invalid: res_src. (Not XAP.) */
#define AP_BADCD_SRC            14      /* Cdata field value invalid: src. (Not XAP.) */
#define AP_BADENC               18      /* Bad encoding chosen in enveloping function.  (Not XAP.) */
#define AP_BADUBUF              31      /* Bad length for user data. (Not XAP.) */
#define AP_INTERNAL             33      /* Internal error. (Not XAP.) */
#define AP_NOSET                39      /* Attribute is not setable. (Not XAP.) */
.fi
.PP
or
.PP
.B
#include <xap.h>
.PP
.nf
#define AP_AGAIN_DATA_PENDING   42      /* XAP was unable to complete the requested
                                           action.  Try again.  There is an event
                                           available for the user to receive. (XAP only.) */
#define AP_BADALLOC             43      /* The ap_user_alloc/ap_user_dealloc argument
                                           combination was invalid. (XAP only.) */
#define AP_BADASLSYN            44      /* The transfer syntaxes proposed for the ACSE
                                           syntax are not supported. (XAP only.) */
#define AP_BADDATA              45      /* user data not allowed on this service (XAP only.) */
#define AP_BADNSAP              46      /* The format of the NSAP portion of the
                                           Presetnation Address is not supported. (XAP
                                           only.) */
#define AP_DATA_OVERFLOW        47      /* User data and presentation services pci
                                           exceeds 512 bytes on session VI or the length
                                           of user data exceeds a locally defined limit, 
                                           as stated in the CSQ. (XAP only.) */
#define AP_NOBUF                48      /* could not allocate enough buffers (XAP only.) */
#define AP_NODATA               49      /* an attempt ws made to send a primitive with no 
                                           user data (XAP onlyl.) */
#define AP_NO_PRECEDENCE        50      /* The resyncrhonization requested by the local
                                           user does not have precedence over the one
                                           requested by the remote user. (XAP only.) */
#define AP_NOT_SUPPORTED        51      /* THe action requested is not supported by this
                                           implementation of XAP. (XAP only.) */
#define AP_SUCCESS_DATA_PENDING 52      /* The requested action was completed
                                           successfully. There is an event available for
                                           the user to receive. (XAP only.) */
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ap_errno
provides a thread-safe global error code for use with the ACSE/Presentation
Library Interface, APLI,
.[
apli UNIX International
.]
.BR apli (3).
.PP
Error codes and their associated English error message strings defined by APLI
.[
apli UNIX International
.]
and
XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
are as follows:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lb1lb1lb1lb0s0s0s0s
lb1c1c1li0s0s0s0s.
Error Code:APLI:XAP:English Error Message String
_
AP_ACCES:X:X:T{
Request to bind specified address denied.
T}
AP_AGAIN:X:X:T{
Request not completed.
T}
AP_AGAIN_DATA_PENDING:\-:X:T{
XAP was unable to complete the requested action.  Try again.  There is an event available for the user to receive.
T}
AP_BADALLOC:\-:X:T{
The ap_user_alloc/ap_user_dealloc argument combination was invalid.
T}
AP_BADASLSYN:\-:X:T{
The transfer syntaxes proposed for the ACSE syntax are not supported.
T}
AP_BADATTRVAL:X:X:T{
Bad value for environment attribute.
T}
AP_BADCD_ACT_ID:X:X:T{
Cdata field value invalid: act_id.
T}
AP_BADCD_DIAG:X:X:T{
Cdata field value invalid: diag.
T}
AP_BADCD_EVT:X:X:T{
Cdata field value invalid: evt.
T}
AP_BADCD_OLD_ACT_ID:X:X:T{
Cdata field value invalid: old_act_id.
T}
AP_BADCD_OLD_CONN_ID:X:X:T{
Cdata field value invalid: old_conn_id.
T}
AP_BADCD_PABORT_IND:X:\-:T{
Cdata field value invalid: pabort_ind.
T}
AP_BADCD_RES_SRC:X:\-:T{
Cdata field value invalid: res_src.
T}
AP_BADCD_RES:X:X:T{
Cdata field value invalid: res.
T}
AP_BADCD_RESYNC_TYPE:X:X:T{
Cdata field value invalid: resync_type.
T}
AP_BADCD_RSN:X:X:T{
Cdata field value invalid: rsn.
T}
AP_BADCD_SRC:X:\-:T{
Cdata field value invalid: src.
T}
AP_BADCD_SYNC_P_SN:X:X:T{
Cdata field value invalid: sync_p_syn.
T}
AP_BADCD_SYNC_TYPE:X:X:T{
Cdata field value invalid: sync_type.
T}
AP_BADCD_TOKENS:X:X:T{
Cdata field value invalid: tokens.
T}
AP_BADDATA:\-:X:T{
user data not allowed on this service
T}
AP_BADENC:X:\-:T{
Bad encoding chosen in enveloping function.
T}
AP_BADENV:X:X:T{
A mandatory aattribute is not set.
T}
AP_BADFLAGS:X:X:T{
The specified combination of flags is invalid.
T}
AP_BADFREE:X:X:T{
Could not free structure members.
T}
AP_BADF:X:X:T{
Not a presentation service endpoint.
T}
AP_BADKIND:X:X:T{
Unknown structure type.
T}
AP_BADLSTATE:X:X:T{
Instance in bad state for that command.
T}
AP_BADNSAP:\-:X:T{
The format of the NSAP portion of the Presetnation Address is not supported.
T}
AP_BADPARSE:X:X:T{
Attribute parse failed.
T}
AP_BADPRIM:X:X:T{
Unrecognized primitive from user.
T}
AP_BADRESTR:X:X:T{
Attributes not restored due to more bit on.
T}
AP_BADROLE:X:X:T{
Request invalid due to value of AP_ROLE.
T}
AP_BADSAVEF:X:X:T{
Invalid FILE pointer.
T}
AP_BADSAVE:X:X:T{
Attribtues not saved due to more bit on.
T}
AP_BADUBUF:X:\-:T{
Bad length for user data.
T}
AP_DATA_OVERFLOW:\-:X:T{
User data and presentation services pci exceeds 512 bytes on session VI or the length of user data exceeds a locally defined limit, as stated in the CSQ.
T}
AP_HANGUP:X:X:T{
Association close or aborted.
T}
AP_INTERNAL:X:\-:T{
Internal error.
T}
AP_LOOK:X:X:T{
A pending event requires attention.
T}
AP_NOATTR:X:X:T{
No such attribute.
T}
AP_NOBUF:\-:X:T{
could not allocate enough buffers
T}
AP_NODATA:\-:X:T{
an attempt ws made to send a primitive with no user data
T}
AP_NOENV:X:X:T{
No environment for that fd.
T}
AP_NOERROR:X:X:T{
No error.
T}
AP_NOMEM:X:X:T{
Could not allocate enough memory.
T}
AP_NO_PRECEDENCE:\-:X:T{
The resyncrhonization requested by the local user does not have precedence over the one requested by the remote user.
T}
AP_NOREAD:X:X:T{
Attribute is not readable.
T}
AP_NOSET:X:\-:T{
Attribute is not setable.
T}
AP_NOT_SUPPORTED:\-:X:T{
The action requested is not supported by this implementation of XAP.
T}
AP_NOWRITE:X:X:T{
Attribute is not writable.
T}
AP_PDUREJ:X:X:T{
Invalid PDU rejected.
T}
AP_SUCCESS_DATA_PENDING:\-:X:T{
The requested action was completed successfully. There is an event available for the user to receive.
T}
_
.TE
.PP
Detailed description of some error codes follow:
.TP
.B AP_NOERROR\ -
No error is indicated in the
.B ap_errno
variable.  The last operation was a success.
.B ap_errno
will not be set to this value (zero) by the library, the user must set
.B ap_errno
to zero before the APLI library call and when the call is successful, the
.B ap_errno
value will be unaffected.  There is no requirement that this value be set after a successful call,
and calls are event permitted to change
.B ap_errno
to some other value, when the call is actually successful.
.TP
.B AP_ACCES\ -
When an APLI or XAP instance is bound to a presentation address using the
.BR ap_set_env (3)
or
.BR ap_bind (3)
library functions, and a network address (NSAP), transport selector (TSEL),
session selector (SSEL) or presentation selector (PSEL) requires privilege,
and the caller does not have sufficient privilege, this error will be issued
indicating that the request to bind the specified address was denied.
.TP
.B AP_AGAIN\ -
A request (library function call) was interrupted before it could start or the call would block and
the APLI or XAP instance is set for non-blocking operation, this error is issued indicating that the
request was not completed and to try again.
.TP
.B AP_AGAIN_DATA_PENDING\ -
Same as \fBAP_AGAIN\fP, except that there is also an event available for the user to receive (which
may have been what interrupted the current call).
.sp
This is an XAP-only extension to the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_BADALLOC\ -
This error is generated by calls to the
.B ap_init_env (3)
function when the user allocation and deallocation function argument combination is invalid.  These
arguments must either both be non-NULL or both be NULL.  Any other combination will generate this
error.
.sp
This is an XAP-only extension to the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_BADASLSYN\ -
When forming a presentation connection, the user can provide a proposes presentation context list
which contains abstract and transfer syntaxes.  All of the proposed transfer syntaxes must be
supported by the service provider and the ACSE/Presentation Library Interface implementation.  When
one of the transfer syntaxes in the proposed list (see environment attributes
.BR AC_PCDL
and
.BR AC_PCDRL ),
is not supported by the provider or library, this error is returned indicating that the transfer
syntaxes proposed for the ACSE syntax are not supported.
.sp
This is an XAP-only extension to the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_BADATTRVAL\ -
When setting an environment attribute with
.BR ap_set_env (3),
the user supplies the attribute value.  In some cases, the attribute value may be NULL.  I some case
it may not.  Some attribute have constraints on the range of values that they accept.  Some
attributes are constrained by the setting of other attributes witin the environment.  Whenever a
user specifies an illegal, invalid or otherwise unusable value for an environment attribute, this
error is returned indicating that there was a bad value for an environment attribute.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_ACT_ID\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIact_id\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_DIAG\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIdiag\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_EVT\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIevt\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_OLD_ACT_ID\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIold_act_id\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_OLD_CONN_ID\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIold_conn_id\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_PABORT_IND\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIpabort_ind\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.sp
This is an APLI-only error code for the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_RES\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIres\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_RES_SRC\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIres_src\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.sp
This is an APLI-only error code for the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_RESYNC_TYPE\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIresync_type\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_RSN\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIrsn\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_SRC\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIsrc\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.sp
This is an APLI-only error code for the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_SYNC_P_SN\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIsync_p_sn\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_SYNC_TYPE\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIsync_type\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_TOKENS\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fItokens\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADDATA\ -
APLI provides specialized structure for control data for each service primitive.  XAP does not, it
provides one single control data type.  Therefore, it is possible under XAP (but not possible under
APLI) that a positive, non-zero amount of user data is specified with primitives that do not accept
user data.  Therefore, in the event that an XAP
.BR ap_snd (3)
function is called with control data that contains a positive, non-zero user data length and the
service primitive sptype does not support user data, this error is generated indicating that user
data is not applied on this service.
.sp
This is an XAP-only extension to the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_BADENC\ -
When the user passes data to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function, it must be encoded in the appropriate
encoding for the abstract/transfer syntax negotiated for the presentation layer.  The
\fBap_snd\fP(3) function has determined that the choice of encoding for the envelope of the user
data was incorrect.
.sp
This is an APLI-only error code for the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_BADENV\ -
A mandatory ALPI environment attribute, settable with the \fBap_set_env\fP(3) and gettable with the
\fBap_get_env\fP(3) functions, was not set at the time of the call to \fBap_snd\fP(3), but the
service primitive invoked by the function requires that the attribute be set by the caller to a
specific value.  Therefore, the call to \fBap_snd\fP(3) has failed because a mandatory attribute is
not set.
.TP
.B AP_BADF\ -
Most APLI library functions have a file descriptor, \fIfd\fP, passed as the first argument of the
function.  This file descriptor is both a handle to the APLI instance that the user wishes to
control as well as being a character special file, pipe or named FIFO, representing a presentation
service provider.  The APLI library tracks which of the process' file descriptors are associated
with presentation service providers, and thus represent APLI instances.  Those that do not, such as
standard input, standard output or standard error, cannot have their file descriptors passed to APLI
library functions without generating this error.  This error indicates that the passed in file
descriptor, \fIfd\fP, did not correspond to a presentation service endpoint, and so does not
correspond to an APLI instances and therefore cannot be acted upon by the APLI library function.
.TP
.B AP_BADFLAGS\ -
For some combinations of flags passed to APLI library functions as arguments, the combinations do
not follow a strict choice of unrestricted logical OR combination.  Some flag combinations are not
permitted or are invalid or are unspecified or unsupported.  This error indicates that a combination
of flags passed by the user was invalid per the specification of the flags.
.TP
.B AP_BADFREE\ -
When the \fBap_free\fP(3) function is called, it attempts to free, using the \fBfree\fP(3) C library
call, all of the allocated structures internal to the passed in structure pointer.  The only
internal structures that may be freed with \fBap_free\fP(3) are the structures that were allocated
by the APLI library and passed to the user in response to a command.  As such, when these same
internal structures are passed to the \fBap_free\fP(3) function, the APLI library may be able to
verify whether the structures were indeed allocated by the library.  If this can be detected and it
is determined that an internal structure was not allocated by the APLI library, the \fBap_free\fP(3)
function will not free the structure with the \fBfree\fP(3) C library call, and will, instead,
return this error indicating that it could not free structure members.
.TP
.B AP_BADKIND\ -
The \fBap_free\fP(3) function is called with a \fIkind\fP argument that indicates to which type of
structure the call applies.  The value of this argument may correspond to a struct type (in all
capitals) symbolic constant, or a service primitive type symbolic constant, or an environment
attribute symbolic constant.  When the \fIkind\fP argument value passed does not correspond to any
of these symbolic constants, then the structure type is unknown and this error generated.
.TP
.B AP_BADLSTATE\ -
.TP
.B AP_BADNSAP\ -
.sp
This is an XAP-only extension to the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_BADPARSE\ -
.TP
.B AP_BADPRIM\ -
When calling the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function, an \fIsptype\fP argument is passed which specifies the
\*(lqService Primitive TYPE\*(rq for the call.  The service primitive type identifies the protocol
service primitive to be passed to the presentation service provider.  When this error is generated,
it means that the user has passed a service primitive type, sptype, does not correspond to a
symbolic constant know to the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_BADRESTR\ -
The \fBap_restore\fP(3) function can be used to set APLI environment attributes associated with an
APLI instance.  When data is sent in multiple segments, the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit is used in the flags
argument to \fBap_snd\fP(3) for all calls except the last.  Attributes are not permitted to change
after calls to \fBap_snd\fP(3) in which the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit has been set, until a call to
\fBap_snd\fP(3) has been made with the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit clear.  This error indicates that
\fBap_restore\fP(3) was called while the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit was set (i.e. a call has been made to
\fBap_snd\fP(3) with the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit set in the flags argument and no subsequent call to
\fBap_snd\fP(3) without the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit set has been sent).
.TP
.B AP_BADROLE\ -
The APLI library user has attempted to call a function, typically \fBap_snd\fP(3) for an environment
attribute or service primitive type which is not applicable to the roles (intiiator or responder)
for which the APLI instance is allowed (as per environment attribute \fBROLE_ALLOWED\fP).
.TP
.B AP_BADSAVE -
The \fBap_save\fP(3) function can be used to store APLI environment attribtues associated with an
APLI instance in a file.  When data is sent in multiple segments, the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit is used in
the flags argument to \fBap_snd\fP(3) for all calls except the last.  Attributes are not permitted
to change after calls to \fBap_snd\fP(3) in which the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit has been set, untila call to
\fBap_snd\fP(3) has been made with the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit clear.  The \fBAP_MORE\fP bit is set in the
environment during this period.  Because an attribute value including the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit should
not be saved, the \fBap_save\fP(3) function will fail while the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit is set, with this
error code.
.TP
.B AP_BADSAVEF\ -
The FILE pointer argument, savef, passed to \fBap_save\fP(3) and \fBap_restore\fP(3) is not a valid
file pointer.  It may be NULL or does not represent a valid file stream open for writing.
.TP
.B AP_BADUBUF\ -
.sp
This is an APLI-only error code for the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_DATA_OVERFLOW\ -
.sp
This is an XAP-only extension to the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_HANGUP\ -
.TP
.B AP_INTERNAL\ -
.sp
This is an APLI-only error code for the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_LOOK\ -
.TP
.B AP_NOATTR\ -
.TP
.B AP_NOBUF\ -
.sp
This is an XAP-only extension to the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_NODATA\ -
.sp
This is an XAP-only extension to the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_NOENV\ -
.TP
.B AP_NOERROR\ -
.TP
.B AP_NOMEM\ -
.TP
.B AP_NO_PRECEDENCE\ -
.sp
This is an XAP-only extension to the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_NOREAD\ -
Some environment attributes are readable always, readable never, or readable only in specific states
for the APLI or XAP instance.  WHen this error is generated, an attempt was made to read an
environment attribute which is never readable, or is not readable in the current state of the APLI
or XAP instance.  This error is generated to indicate that the attribute is not readable.  (Note
that in practice, all APLI and XAP environment attributes are readable always and this error code is
generic and never generated.)
.TP
.B AP_NOSET\ -
The APLI library seems to have distinguished between setabliity of an environment attribute and
writability of an evironment attribute, perhaps where setability is construed as the ability to
initialize an uninitialized attribute, and writability is perhaps construed as the ability to alter
the value of an exising environment attribute.  Nevertheless this is rather conjecture as the error
value AP_NOSET is nowhere described in the APLI documentation.
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
(However, I do not have access to the original UI draft.)
.[
apli UNIX International
.]
.sp
This is an APLI-only error code for the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_NOT_SUPPORTED\ -
.sp
This is an XAP-only extension to the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_NOWRITE\ -
Some environment attributes are writable always, writable never, or writable only in specific states
of the APLI or XAP instance.  When this error is generated, an attempt was made to write to an
environment attribute which is never writable, or is not writable in the current state of the APLI
or XAP instance.  This error is generated to indicate that the attribute is not writable.
.TP
.B AP_PDUREJ\ -
.TP
.B AP_SUCCESS_DATA_PENDING\ -
.sp
This is an XAP-only extension to the APLI library.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although many of the same symbolic constants and associated values are defined
both for APLI
.[
apli UNIX International
.]
and
XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
there is no defined global error number under XAP.  Instead, the function in
APLI which would set the
.BR ap_errno
global on failure, set the error code, instead, using a pointer passed in by the caller (often called
.IR ap_errnop ).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B ap_errno
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ap_error (3),
.BR APLI (3),
.BR XAP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B ap_errno
is compatible with APLI,
.[
apli UNIX International
.]
XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and implementations based on APLI and XAP wuch as
.IR Solaris \(rg " SunLink OSI" ,
.IR Solaris \(rg " Solstice OSI",
.IR HP \(rg " OSI Transport Services (OTS/9000)" ,
.IR "SVR 4.2 Open Network Services (ONS)" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
There are situations in which the error code produced by the APLI or XAP
library is open to interpretation.  Therefore, portable APLI and XAP programs
will not rely on the value of a specific error code in specific circumstances,
but will, rather, rely only upon the success or failure of the library call.
.IP \(em
Implementations vary in the capitalization and terminal punctuation of error
strings.  Portable APLI and XAP programs will compose error string printouts
in such a format as to not rely on the capitalization of the first word of the
error string, nor the existence of punctuation (period) at the end of the
message.
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR APLI (3),
.BR XAP (3)
and
.IR STREAMS (4)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
APLI,
.[
apli UNIX International
.]
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B ap_errno
first appeared in APLI.
.[
apli UNIX International
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 APLI Library,
.BR libapli (3),
and the OpenSS7 XAP Library,
.BR libxap (3).
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
