'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ap_free.3.man,v 0.9.2.5 2008-04-28 07:41:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 07:41:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ap_free.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2008-04-28 07:41:15  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-16 17:34:22  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/12/15 20:20:26  brian
.\" - updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:48  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:30  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_FREE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ap_free
\- Free user memory associated with XAP data structures.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface,
APLI,
.[
APLI UNIX International
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libapli (3),
.BR libxap (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_free(int " fd ", unsigned long " kind ", void *" val ", unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I fd
A file descriptor identifying the XAP instance.
.TP
.I kind
The kind of structure to free.
.TP
.I val
A pointer to the structure.
.TP
.I aperrno_p
A pointer to an extent into which to receive an error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function frees memory for values of XAP environment attributes and data
structures allocated on the XAP instance identified by
.IR fd .
Common uses of this function would be to free memory allocated for the value
of an environment attribute by XAP following an
.BR ap_get_env (3)
invocation, and to free an
.B ap_a_assoc_env_t
structure returned with an
.I A_ASSOC_IND
by an ap_rcv invocation when the
.B AP_COPYENV
environment attribute is set. The argument
.I kind
identifies the kind of structure that is to be freed. Legal values for this
argument are:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B #define
identifiers associated with environment attributes whose type is not a
.BR long .
These are the names listed in the
.RI \(lq Attribute \(rq
column of the environment attribute summary table given in Chapter 3 (for
example,
.BR AP_INIT_TOKENS ).
.IP \(bu
.B #define
identifiers associated with data structures that are used to represent the
values of environment attributes. These data structures are those listed in
the
.RI \(lq Type/Value \(rq
column of the environment attribute summary table given in Chapter 3. The
identifier for a data structure is derived from the
.B typedef
name by converting it to upper case.
.IP \(bu
.B #define
identifiers associated with certain important C data structures not associated
with environment attributes. These are as follows:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lblb
lbli.
C Data Structure:Identifier
_
ap_cdata_t:AP_CDATA_T
ap_a_assoc_env_t:AP_A_ASSOC_ENV_T
ap_osi_vbuf_t:AP_OSI_VBUF_T
.TE
.IP \(bu
The
.B #define
identifier
.I AP_BUFFERS
for a chain of user data buffers.
.PP
When an XAP implementation supports further ASEs through XAP extensions,
further
.B #define
identifiers may be used with
.BR ap_free ()
as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B #define
identifiers associated with environment attributes, whose type is not
.BR long ,
which are particular to the ASE.  These are the names listed in the
\(lqAttribute\(rq column of the environment attribute summary table within the
extension specification.
.IP \(bu
.B #define
identifiers of the data structures used to prepresent the values of
environment attributes which are particular to the ASE.  These data structures
are those listed in the Type/Value column of the environment attribute summary
table within the extension specification.
.IP \(bu
.B #define
identifiers associated with the ASEs
.I cdata
structure and dependent data structures.  For example, in the TP extension
(XAP-TP)
.[
XAP-TP
.]
these are:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lblb
lbli.
C Data Structure:Identifier
_
ap_tp_cdata_t:AP_TP_CDATA_T
ap_tp_dialog_env_t:AP_TP_DIALOG_ENV_T
.TE
.sp
and in the ROSE extension (XAP-ROSE)
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
these are:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lblb
lbli.
C Data STructure:Identifier
_
ap_ro_cdata_t:AP_RO_CDATA_T
.TE
.PP
The argument
.I val
must be a pointer to a structure of the type indicated by
.IR kind .
.PP
The behaviour of
.BR ap_free ()
differs when releasing buffers and when releasing memory.
.PP
The user can release buffers by calling
.BR ap_free ()
with
.I kind
set to
.IR AP_BUFFERS " or " AP_OSI_VBUF_T .
An
.BR ap_free ()
call with
.I kind
set to
.I AP_BUFFERS
releases ALL buffers in the supplied chain (including the first
osi_vbuf/osi_dbuf/data buffer in the chain) by passing the entire chain to the
user dealloc function. An
.BR ap_free ()
call with
.I kind
set to
.I AP_OSI_VBUF_T
releases all buffers in the chain EXCEPT the first osi_vbuf/osi_dbuf/data
buffer, and sets
.I bcont
in the first
.I osi_vbuf
to
.BR NULL .
Note that because all freeing of buffers is performed by the user dealloc
function, osi_dbufs and buffers cannot be freed in isolation.  When releasing
memory, the
.BR ap_free ()
function follows and frees all internal pointers. The top level structure (the
structure pointed to by
.IR val )
is not freed. If the user has supplied a deallocation function on the
.BR ap_open (3)
call then:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
the
.BR ap_user_dealloc (3)
function is called to free any buffers, and buffer chains, passed to
.BR ap_free ()
.IP \(bu
if the
.B AP_BUFFERS_ONLY
flag was not set on the
.BR ap_open (3)
call, then the
.BR ap_user_dealloc (3)
function will be called to free the memory comprising data structures pointed
at by members of the data structure passed to
.BR ap_free ().
.PP
.I aperrno_p
must be set to point to a location which will be used to carry an error code
back to the user.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of zero
.RB ( 0 )
is returned. Otherwise, a value of
minus one
.RB ( -1 )
is returned and the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADF ]
The
.I fd
paramter does not identify an XAP instance.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADFREE ]
The function could not free the structure.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADKIND ]
The
.I kind
argument does not identify a known structure type.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ap_get_env (3),
.BR ap_open (3),
.BR ap_user_dealloc (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR ap_free ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ap_free ()
is compatible with
XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and implementations based on XAP, such as
.IR "USL ONP" \(rg,
.IR "Solaris Solstice OSI" \(rg,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" \(rg,
.IR "Digital DECnet/OSI" \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.
Binary compatibility is not
attempted: any exhibited binary compatibility is coincidental and is scheduled
to be removed on the next release.
.PP
See \fBXAP\fP(3) and \fISTREAMS\fP(4) for additional
compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XAP.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_free ()
first appeared in XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4



