'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ap_get_env.3.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-28 07:41:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 07:41:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ap_get_env.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-28 07:41:15  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2008-04-16 17:34:22  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/12/15 20:20:26  brian
.\" - updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/11/10 19:40:48  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/06 11:43:10  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:30  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_GET_ENV 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ap_get_env
\- Get the value of an XAP environment attribute.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface,
APLI,
.[
APLI UNIX International
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libapli (3),
.BR libxap (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_get_env(int " fd ", unsigned long " attr ", void *" val ", unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fR\(em'u
.I fd
A file descriptor that identifies the XAP instance.
.TP
.I attr
An attribute identifier.
.TP
.I val
A pointer to a memory extent into which to receive the value.
.TP
.I aperrno_p
A pointer to a memory extent into which to receive an error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function retrieves the value of an environment attribute for an XAP
instance identified by
.IR fd .
.I attr
is used to pass the name of the attribute to be retrieved, defined by the
associated
.B #define
in the
.RB < xap.h >
header file.
.PP
The value supplied as the
.I val
argument to this function depends upon which attribute is to be examined. In
all cases,
.I val
must point to an object of the same type as the specified attribute. For
example, if the type of the attribute is
.BR long ,
.I val
must point to a
.BR long .
Similarly, if the type of the attribute is
.BR ap_dcs_t ,
.I val
must point to an
.B ap_dcs_t
structure. If the object pointed to by
.I val
is either a pointer or a structure that includes pointers (e.g.,
.BR ap_dcs_t ),
XAP allocates additional memory by calling the user supplied or built-in
allocation routine, and assigns proper values to the pointer elements as
required. Memory allocated by
.BR ap_get_env ()
can be freed with the
.BR ap_free (3)
function.
.PP
Refer to
.BR ap_env (3)
for information about attribute types.
.PP
.I aperrno_p
must be set to point to a location which will be used to carry an error code
back to the user.
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.\"
.SS Calling Endpoint Attributes
.TP
.B AP_CLG_AEID
The calling application entity invocation-identifier (AE-invocation-identifier).
The AP_CLG_AEID is the calling AE-invocation-identifier parameter of the AARQ APDU. This attribute
is not used in the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.RS
.PP
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_CLG_AEQ
The calling application entity qualifier (AE-qualifier).
This is either a relative distinguished name (form1), an integer (form2) or printable string (form3).
Note that an AE-title may be formed by combining the AP-title and AE-qualifier.
.RS
.PP
The AP_CLG_AEQ is the calling AE-qualifier parameter of the AARQ APDU. See the description of the
ap_aeq_t data type for information about how its absence is indicated. This attribute is not used in
the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.PP
Type \fBap_aeq_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_CLG_APID
The calling application process invocation-identifier (AP-invocation-identifier).
The AP_CLG_APID is the calling AP-invocation-identifier parameter of the AARQ APDU. This attribute
is not used in the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.RS
.PP
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_CLG_APT
The calling application process title (AP-title).
This is either a distinguished name (form1), object identifier (form2) or printable string (form3).
Note that an AE-title may be formed by combining the AP-title and AE-qualifier.
.RS
.PP
The AP_CLG_APT is the calling AP-title parameter of the AARQ APDU. See the description of the
ap_apt_t data type for information about how its absence is indicated. This attribute is not used in
the X.410-1984 mode.
.PP
Type \fBap_apt_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.RE
.\"
.SS Called Endpoint Attributes
.TP
.B AP_CLD_AEID
The called application entity invocation-identifier (AE-invocation-identifier).
The AP_CLD_AEID is the called AE invocation identifier parameter of the AARQ APDU. This attribute is
not used in the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.RS
.PP
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_CLD_AEQ
The called application entity qualifier (AE-qualifier).
This is either a relative distinguished name (form1), an integer (form2) or printable string (form3).
Note that an AE-title may be formed by combining the AP-title and AE-qualifier.
.RS
.PP
The AP_CLD_AEQ is the called AE-qualifier parameter of the AARQ APDU. This attribute is not used in
the X.410-1984if mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.PP
Type \fBap_aeq_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_CLD_APID
The called application process invocation-identifier (AP-invocation-identifier).
The AP_CLD_APID is the called AP invocation identifier parameter of the AARQ APDU. This attribute is
not used in the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.RS
.PP
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_CLD_APT
The called application process title (AP-title).
This is either a distinguished name (form1), object identifier (form2) or printable string (form3).
Note that an AE-title may be formed by combining the AP-title and AE-qualifier.
.RS
.PP
The AP_CLD_APT is the called AP-title parameter of the AARQ APDU. This attribute is not used in the
X.410-1984te mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.PP
Type \fBap_apt_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.RE
.\"
.SS Responding Endpoint Attributes
.TP
.B AP_RSP_AEID
The responding application entity invocation-identifier (AE-invocation-identifier).
The AP_RSP_AEID is the responding AE invocation identifier parameter of the AARE APDU.  This
attribute is not used in the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.RS
.PP
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_RSP_AEQ
The responding application entity qualifier (AE-qualifier).
This is either a relative distinguished name (form1), an integer (form2) or printable string (form3).
Note that an AE-title may be formed by combining the AP-title and AE-qualifier.
.RS
.PP
The AP_RSP_AEQ is the responding AE-qualifier parameter of the AARE APDU. See the description of the
ap_aeq_t data type for information about how its absence is indicated. This attribute is not used in
the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.PP
Type \fBap_aeq_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_RSP_APID
The responding application process invocation-identifier (AP-invocation-identifier).
The AP_RSP_APID is the responding AP invocation identifier parameter of the AARE APDU.  This
attribute is not used in the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.RS
.PP
Type \fBap_aei_api_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_RSP_APT
The responding application process title (AP-title).
This is either a distinguished name (form1), object identifier (form2) or printable string (form3).
Note that an AE-title may be formed by combining the AP-title and AE-qualifier.
.RS
.PP
The AP_RSP_APT is the responding AP-title parameter of the AARE APDU. This attribute is not used in
the X.410-1984ar mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.PP
Type \fBap_apt_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.RE
.\"
.SS ACSE Attributes
.PP
The ACSE Attributes are attributes associated with the Association Control Service Element (ACSE)
portion of the OSI protocol stack.
.[
x217
.]
.[
x227
.]
.[
x237
.]
.TP
.B AP_ACSE_AVAIL
The AP_ACSE_AVAIL attribute indicates which versions of the ACSE protocol are currently available
for the association.  The attribute is an \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_ACSEVER1\fP.
It is readable always and writable never, except when the AP_MODE_SEL attribute is set to
AP_X410_MODE, in which case the version "X.410-1984" is implied by the mode.
.TP
.B AP_ACSE_SEL
The AP_ACSE_SEL attribute indicates which version of the ACSE protocol is currently selected for the
association.  The attribute is an \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_ACSEVER1\fP and default
value \fIAP_ACSEVER1\fP.  It is readable always and writable in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and
\fBAP_IDLE\fP.  In all other states, the value represents the ACSE version for the current
association.  This attribute is not applicable when AP_MODE_SEL is set to AP_X410_MODE, in which
case the version "X.410-1984" is implied by the mode.
.TP
.B AP_AFU_AVAIL
The AP_AFU_AVAIL attribute indicates which optional ACSE functional units are currently available for
use on the association.  The attribute is an \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fINULL\fP.  It is
readable always and writable never, except when the AP_MODE_SEL attribute is set to AP_X410_MODE, in
which case the functional units of "X.410-1984" are implied by the mode.
.TP
.B AP_AFU_SEL
The AP_AFU_SEL attribute indicates which optional ACSE functional units have been requested for use
over the current association.  The attribute is an \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fINULL\fP.
It is readable always and writable in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and
\fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.  In all other states, the value represents the selected optional ACSE
functional units for the association.  This attribute is not applicable when AP_MODE_SEL is set to
AP_X410_MODE, in which case the functional units available to "X.410-1984" is implied by the mode.
.TP
.B AP_CNTX_NAME
The AP_CNTX_NAME attribute is the application-context-name parameter of the AARQ and AARE APDUs.
.[
x227
.]
The AP_CNTX_NAME attribute is the application-context-name parameter of the
AARQ and AARE APDUs. See the discussion of the \fBap_objid_t\fP data type for
information about how the absence of this parameter is indicated. This
attribute is not used in the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the
AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.RS
.PP
The application/ASO context name.
Type \fBap_objid_t\fP with default none.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
The Application/ASO context name may only be written in the \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP state when
the XAP instance selects the Application/ASO context name negotiation functional unit.
Changing this value in any other state requires use of the P_ALTERCNTX_REQ, P_ALTERCNTX_IND,
P_ALTERCNTX_RSP and P_ALTERCNTX_CNF primitives, which are only available when the Application/ASO
Context Negotiation functional unit is selected.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_ROLE_ALLOWED
The \fBAP_ROLE_ALLOWED\fP parameter is used to specify how an instance of XAP may be used.
Specifically, the value of this attribute indicates whether the XAP instance may be used to send an
\fBA_ASSOC_REQ\fP primitive, receive an \fBA_ASSOC_IND\fP primitive, or both. Note that this
attribute only affects the roles that an instance of XAP may play with respect to association
establishment.  Changing the value of this attribute will not affect the way in which XAP
participates in an association that has already been established. It should be noted that an
\fBA_ASSOC_IND\fP primitive may be received even after this attribute has been set to prohibit
receipt of association indications if \fBAP_ROLE_ALLOWED\fP is set to \fIAP_INITIATOR\fP while the
XAP instance is in the \fIAP_IDLE\fP state. This situation occurs when the \fBA_ASSOC_IND\fP
primitive has been queued prior to setting \fBAP_ROLE_ALLOWED\fP to \fIAP_INITIATOR\fP. To avoid
this situation, the \fBAP_ROLE_ALLOWED\fP attribute should be set before the XAP instance is bound
to a presentation address if it will only be used to initiate associations.
.RS
.TP \w'\fIAP_INITIATOR\fP\(em'u
.I AP_INITIATOR
XAP instance may act in the association-initiator role.
.PD 0
.TP
.I AP_REPSONDER
XAP instance may act in the association-responder role.
.PD
.PP
The allowed roles.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_INITIATOR\fP and \fIAP_RESPONDER\fP with default values \fIAP_INITIATOR\fP and \fIAP_RESPONDER\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable always.
.PP
The AP_ROLE_ALLOWED attribute is used to specify how an XAP-TP instance may be used.  Specifically,
the value to this attribute indicates whether the XAP-TP instance may be used to send a
TP_BEGIN_DIALOGUE_REQ primitive, receive a TP_BEING_DIALOGUE_IND primitive, or both.
.PP
Notes:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
This attribute only affects the roles that an XAP-TP instance may plat with respect to dialogue
establishment.  Changing the value of this attribute will not affect the way in which XAP-TP
participates in a dialogue that has already been established.
.IP 2.
A TP_BEGIN_DIALOGUE_IND primitive may be received even after this attribute has been set to
AP_INITIATOR in the AP_TP_IDLE state.  This situation occurs when AP_ROLE_ALLOWED included the value
AP_RESPONDER and a TP_BEGIN_DIALOGUE_IND has been queued prior to setting AP_ROLE_ALLOWED to
AP_INITIATOR.  To avoid this situation, the AP_ROLE_ALLOWED attribute should be set before the
XAP-TP instance is bound to an address if it will only be used to initiate dialogues.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_ROLE_CURRENT
The \fBAP_ROLE_CURRENT\fP attribute indicates the role of the local user in the current association.
The attribute is set to \fIAP_INITIATOR\fP as soon as an \fBA_ASSOC_REQ\fP primitive is sent and
remains unchanged until the association is rejected or subsequently terminated.  Similarly, the
attribute is set to \fIAP_RESPONDER\fP upon receipt of an \fBA_ASSOC_IND\fP and left unchanged until
the association is terminated.
Bit values are as defined for \fBAP_ROLE_ALLOWED\fP.
.RS
.PP
The current role.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_INITIATOR\fP and \fIAP_RESPONDER\fP.
This attribute is readable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP and is writable never.
.PP
The AP_ROLE_CURRENT attribute indicates the role of the user in the current dialogue.  The attribute
is set to AP_INITIATOR as soon as a TP_BEGIN_DIALOGUE_REQ is sent, and remains unchanged until the
dialogue is rejected or terminated.  SImilarly, the attribute is set to AP_RESPONDER upon receipt of
a TP_BEGIN_DIALOGUE_IND and remains unchanged until the dialogue is terminated.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_STATE
The AP_STATE attribute is used to convey state information about the XAP-TP interface.  It is used
to determine which primitives are legal and which attributes can be read/written.
.RS
.PP
For XAP-TP, the state is of type \fBlong\fP and is one of:
AP_TP_UNBOUND,
AP_TP_IDLE,
AP_TP_WALLOCcnf,
AP_TP_ALLOCATED,
AP_TP_DATA_XFER,
AP_TP_RECV,
AP_TP_ERROR_RECV,
AP_TP_ERROR,
AP_TP_WHANDcnf,
AP_TP_WHANDrsp,
AP_TP_WHANDrsp_WHANDcnf,
AP_TP_WHANDcnf_WENDrsp,
AP_TP_WHANDrsp_WENDcnf,
AP_TP_WENDcnf,
AP_TP_WENDrsp,
AP_TP_WHAND_GCcnf,
AP_TP_WHAND_CGrsp,
AP_TP_WREADYind,
AP_TP_WREADYind_DATAP,
AP_TP_READY,
AP_TP_WPREP_ALLreq,
AP_TP_WPREP_ALLreq_DATAP,
AP_TP_PREPARING,
AP_TP_LOGGING_READY,
AP_TP_WCOMMITind,
AP_TP_COMMIT_WDONEreq,
AP_TP_WCOMMIT_COMPind,
AP_TP_ROLL_WDONEreq,
AP_TP_WROLL_COMPind,
AP_TP_ZOMBIE,
AP_TP_WRESUMEreq,
AP_TP_RESUME,
AP_TP_WRESTARTreq,
AP_TP_RESTART,
AP_TP_WRESTART_COMPLETEind.
.RE
.\"
.SS Presentation Attributes
.PP
The Presentation Attributes are attributes associated with the Presentation portion of the OSI
protocol stack.
.[
x216
.]
.[
x226
.]
.[
x236
.]
.TP
.B AP_BIND_PADDR
The AP_BIND_PADDR attribute is used to indicate the address to which this isntance of XAP will be
bound when ap_bind(3) is called.  Setting this attribute will result in the attribute AP_LCL_PADDR
being set to the same value.  Nevertheless, the attributes AP_BIND_PADDR and AP_LCL_PADDR do not
always have the same value.  For example, a listener application might set thte AP_BIND_PADDR to a
wildcard address and use the called address (conveyed by the AP_LCL_PADDR attribute) specified in
each indication primtive to dispatach associations.
.RS
.PP
The bind presentation address.
Type \fBap_paddr_t\fP with default \fINULL\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_LCL_PADDR
The AP_LCL_PADDR attribute holds the value used as the presentation address of the local entity. If
the local entity is the initiator of an association, this value will be used as the calling
presentation address. If the local entity is the association-responder, this value will be used as
the called presentation address when the A_ASSOC_IND primitive is received and as the responding
presentation address when the A_ASSOC_RSP primitive is issued. This attribute is not directly
settable by the user. However, setting the AP_BIND_PADDR attribute will result in the AP_LCL_PADDR
attribute being set to the same value. Nevertheless, the attributes AP_BIND_PADDR and AP_LCL_PADDR
do not always have the same value. For example, a listener application might set the AP_BIND_PADDR
to a wildcard address and use the called address (conveyed by the AP_LCL_PADDR attribute) specified
in each indication primitive to dispatch associations. 
.RS
.PP
The local presentation address.
Type \fBap_paddr_t\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_REM_PADDR
The AP_REM_PADDR attribute holds the value used as the presentation address of the remote entity. If
the local entity is the initiator of an association, this value is the called presentation address.
If the local entity is the association-responder, this value is the calling presentation address.
.RS
.PP
The remote presentation address.
Type \fBap_paddr_t\fP with default none.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_PRES_AVAIL
The AP_PRES_AVAIL attribute indicates which versions of the Presentation Layer protocol are
currently available. This attribute is not used in the X.410-1984ti mode.
.RS
.PP
The available presentation versions.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_PRESVER1\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_PRES_SEL
The AP_PRES_SEL attribute indicates which version of the Presentation Layer protocol has been
selected for use with the current association. This attribute is not used in the X.410-1984ia mode.
Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.RS
.PP
The selected presentation version.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_PRESVER1\fP and default \fIAP_PRESVER1\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_PFU_AVAIL
The AP_PFU_AVAIL attribute indicates which optional Presentation functional units are currently
available. This attribute is not used in the X.410-1984 mode. Refer to the description of the
AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.RS
.PP
The available optional presentation functional units.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fINULL\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_PFU_SEL
The AP_PFU_SEL attribute indicates which optional Presentation Layer functional units have been
requested for use over the current association. This attribute is not used in the X.410-1984 a mode.
Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.RS
.PP
The selected optional presentation functional units.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fINULL\fP and default \fINULL\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in stats \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_MODE_AVAIL
The AP_MODE_AVAIL attribute indicates the available modes of operation for XAP and Provider. The
modes that may be supported are normal (AP_NORMAL_MODE) and X.410-1984 (AP_X410_MODE).
The available modes.  This attribute represents the Presentation Mode selections supported by the
local presentaiton-entity.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_NORMAL_MODE\fP, \fIAP_X410_MODE\fP,
\fIAP_ROSE_MODE\fP and \fIAP_TP_MODE\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.RS
.PP
The AP_MODE_AVAIL attribute indicates the available modes of operation for XAP and provider.  The
modes that may be supported are those of XAP plus TP mode (AP_TP_MODE).  See also the XAP definition
of AP_MODE_AVAIL.
.PP
An additional flag, AP_ROSE_MODE is defined for this environment attribute.  If set, the service
provider specified in the call to ap_open(3) is capable of providing the ROSE service.  If this flag
is set, the equivalent flag in AP_MODE_SEL may be set to use the XAP-ROSE features of the service
provider.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_MODE_SEL
The AP_MODE_SEL attribute indicates the mode (normal or X.410-1984) in which XAP and Provider are to
be used. This value is used as the mode parameter of the CP PPDU. When this attribute is set to
AP_X410_MODE (indicating the X.410-1984 mode is in effect), certain other attributes are not used.
The readability and writability of these attributes is not affected; but their values will not be
used or updated by XAP. A list of the attributes that are not used in the X.410-1984il mode is
provided below.
.RS
.PP
Attributes Not Used in X.410-1984 Mode: AP_ACSE_AVAIL AP_CLD_APT AP_DPCN AP_PRES_SEL AP_ACSE_SEL
AP_CLG_AEID AP_DPCR AP_RSP_AEID AP_AFU_AVAIL AP_CLG_AEQ AP_PCDL AP_RSP_AEQ AP_AFU_SEL AP_CLG_APID
AP_PCDRL AP_RSP_APID AP_CLD_AEID AP_CLG_APT AP_PFU_AVAIL AP_RSP_APT AP_CLD_AEQ AP_CNTX_NAME
AP_PFU_SEL AP_CLD_APID AP_DCS AP_PRES_AVAIL
.PP
The AP_MODE_SEL attribute indicates the mode in which XAP and provider are to be used.  Only one
mode can be selected at a time.  A provide which supports only TP mode will have this attribute sete
to AP_TP_MODE as default.
.PP
An additional flag, AP_ROSE_MODE is defined for this environment attribute.  Setting this flag
cuases the functions, environment attributes and primitives defined by this specification are
initialized to their default state and become available to the service user.
.PP
Clearing the AP_ROSE_MODE flag in AP_MODE_SEL causes the XAP-ROSE functions, environment attributes
and primitives to become unavailable, and, if enabled, disables the ROSE protocol machine (ROPM).
.PP
This attribute is type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_NORMAL_MODE\fP, \fIAP_X410_MODE\fP,
\fIAP_ROSE_MODE\fP and \fIAP_TP_MODE\fP.  The attribute is readable always and writable only in
states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP, \fBAP_TP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_TP_IDLE\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_DCS
The AP_DCS attribute is the defined context set. The defined context set contains the abstract
syntax/transfer syntax pairs that were negotiated when the association was established, together
with the presentation context identifier that identifies the pair.  The value of AP_DCS shall be
empty (size field of 0) in the states AP_IDLE and AP_WASSOCcnf_ASSOCreq, it shall contain the ACSE
context negotiated by XAP in the state AP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind, and it shall contain the fully
negotiated defined context set in all other states. Note that the defined context set contains both
the presentation contexts that were negotiated by the user (using AP_PCDL and AP_PCDRL) and any
additional presentation contexts that were negotiated by XAP or provider. For example, the ACSE
context (i.e., {joint-iso-ccitt 2 1 0 1}) will be negotiated automatically and will appear in the
defined context set after negotiation is complete. This attribute is not used in the X.410-1984
mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.RS
.PP
The Defined Context Set.
.[
x216
.]
This environment attribute represents the Defined-Context-Set (DCS) for the presentation connection
as communicated to the PS-User.
Type \fBap_dcs_t\fP.
This attribute is readable in states other than \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and writable never.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_PCDL
The AP_PCDL attribute is used to propose the list of presentation contexts to be used on the
connection. The association-initiator sets this list to indicate the contexts it wishes to use for
encoding user data on the association. Since the user is responsible for all encoding and decoding
of user data, the proposed transfer syntaxes for each proposed abstract syntax must be included in
the list proposed by the association-initiator user. For the association-responder, the list
indicates which presentation contexts are being requested by the association-initiator for use on
the association. The association-initiator may specify the ACSE context in AP_PCDL, although it is
not required to do so. If the association-initiator does not supply the ACSE context in AP_PCDL, XAP
supplies it automatically for the association. Regardless of whether or not the
association-initiator supplies the ACSE context, it is not provided to the associationresponder in
AP_PCDL (the responding user may obtain it from AP_DCS if required). This attribute is not used in
the X.410-1984t mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.RS
.PP
The presentation context definition list.
Type \fBap_cdl_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_PCDRL
The AP_PCDRL attribute is used to indicate whether the presentation contexts proposed in the
presentation context definition list have been accepted or rejected. The associationresponder uses
this attribute to indicate which of the proposed presentation contexts are acceptable before issuing
the A_ASSOC_RSP primitive. For the association-initiator, this attribute indicates the remote userOs
response to the proposed presentation contexts, received in the A_ASSOC_CNF primitive. Each entry in
AP_PCDRL corresponds one-to-one with an entry in AP_PCDL which, in the case of the responder, never
contains the proposed ACSE context. The associationresponder has an opportunity to accept or reject
each of the proposed contexts that are indicated in AP_PCDL. The ACSE context is automatically
accepted by XAP, and appears in the value of AP_DCS. This attribute is not used in the X.410-1984
mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.TP
.B AP_DPCN
The AP_DPCN attribute is the default-context-name parameter of the CP PPDU. This attribute is not
used in the \*(lqX.410-1984\*(rq mode. Refer to the description of the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.RS
.PP
The Default Presentation Context Name (Default-context-name).
.[
x216
.]
Type \fBap_dcn_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP. 
In the initiator role, Defining an \fBAP_DPCN\fP prior to \fBA_ASSOC_REQ\fP will cause the
Default-context-name parameter to be included in the \fIP-CONNECT request\fP.  In the responder
role, \fbAP_DPCN\fP in conjunction with the \fBAP_DPCR\fP attribute will reflect the initiator's
proposed Default-context-name.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_DPCR
The AP_DPCR attribute is the default-context-result parameter of the CPR PPDU. Since the user is
responsible for encoding and decoding of user-data, it is the user's responsibility to accept or
reject any proposed default-presentation-context. The value, AP_DPCR_NOVAL, indicates that it is not
present. This attribute is not used in the \*(lqX.410-1984\*(rq mode.  Refer to the description of
the AP_MODE_SEL attribute.
.RS
.TP \w'\fIAC_DPCR_PROV_REJ\fP\(em'u
.I AC_DPCR_NOVAL
No value was proposed as a AC_DPCN (Default-context-name).
.PD 0
.TP
.I AC_DPCR_ACCEPT
The proposed value of Default-context-name is accepted by both provider and user.
.TP
.I AC_DPCR_USER_REJ
The proposed value of Default-context-name was rejected by the user.
.TP
.I AC_DPCR_PROV_REJ
The proposed value of Default-context-name was rejected by the provider.
.PD
.PP
The Default Presentation Context Result (Default-context-result).
.[
x216
.]
Type \fBlong\fP with choice of \fIAP_DPCR_NOVAL\fP, \fIAP_ACCEPT\fP, \fIAP_USER_REJ\fP or \fIAP_PROV_REJ\fP and default \fIAP_DPCR_NOVAL\fP.
This attribute is readable only in state \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP and writable only in state \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOC_ind\fP.
When an A_ASSOC_IND event is received, the value of this attribute represents the state of the
default presentation context.  If the peer did not propose a Default-context-name, the value of this
attribute will be \fIAP_DPCR_NOVAL\fP, and writing the value is not permitted.  If the peer proposed
a Default-context-name that will be rejected by the provider, the value will be \fIAP_PROV_REJ\fP
and writing the value is not permitted.  The \fBAP_DPCN\fP attribute will contain the rejected
proposed default.  If the peer proposed a Default-context-name that is acceptable to the provider,
the value will be \fIAP_ACCEPT\fP and the user may override this by writing \fIAP_USER_REJ\fP to the
attribute before issuing an \fBA_ASSOC_RSP\fP.  The \fBAP_DPCN\fP attribute will contain the
acceptable Default-context-name.
.RE
.\"
.SS Session Attributes
.PP
The Session Attributes are attributes associated with the Session portion of the OSI protocol stack.
.[
x215
.]
.[
x225
.]
.[
x235
.]
.TP
.B AP_SESS_AVAIL
The AP_SESS_AVAIL attribute indicates which versions of the Session Layer protocol are currently
available.
The following bit values are defined:
.RS
.TP \w'\fIAP_SESSVER2\fP\(em'u
.I AP_SESSVER1
Session Protocol Version 1.
.PD 0
.TP
.I AP_SESSVER2
Session Protocol Version 2.
.PD
.PP
The availale session versions.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_SESSVER1\fP and \fIAP_SESSVER2\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_SESS_SEL
The AP_SESS_SEL attribute indicates which version of the Session Layer protocol has been selected
for use with the current association.
.RS
.PP
The selected session version.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_SESSVER1\fP and \fIAP_SESSVER2\fP and default \fIAP_SESSVER2\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_SESS_OPT_AVAIL
The AP_SESS_OPT_AVAIL attribute is used to indicate which optional session capabilities are
available through the XAP interface. If the AP_UCBC flag is set, the underlying provider supports
user control of basic concatenation. If the AP_UCEC flag is set, the underlying provider supports
user control of extended concatenation. For further information, refer to ap_snd( ) and the Session
Layer protocol specification.
The following bit values are defined:
.RS
.TP \w'\fIAP_UCBC\fP\(em'u
.I AP_UCBC
User control of basic concatentation.
.PD 0
.TP
.I AP_UCEC
User control of extended concatentation.
.PD
.PP
The available session options.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_UCBC\fP and \fIAP_UCEC\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_SFU_AVAIL
The AP_SFU_AVAIL attribute indicates which Session Layer functional units are currently available.
The value of this attribute may affect the value of AP_TOKENS_AVAIL.
.[
x215
.]
The following bit values are defined:
.RS
.TP \w'\fIAP_SESS_HALFDUPLEX\fR\(em'u
.I AP_SESS_HALFDUPLEX
Session Half Duplex Functional Unit.
.PD 0
.TP
.I AP_SESS_DUPLEX
Session Duplex Functional Unit.
.TP
.I AP_SESS_XDATA
Session Expedited Data Functional Unit.
.TP
.I AP_SESS_MINORSYNC
Session Minor Syncrhonization Functional Unit.
.TP
.I AP_SESS_MAJORSYNC
Session Major Syncrhonization Functional Unit.
.TP
.I AP_SESS_RESYNC
Session Symmetric Resynchronization Functional Unit.
.TP
.I AP_SESS_ACTMGMT
Session Actvitiy Management Functional Unit.
.TP
.I AP_SESS_NEGREL
Session Negotiated Release Functional Unit.
.TP
.I AP_SESS_CDATA
Session Capability Data Functional Unit.
.TP
.I AP_SESS_EXCEPT
Session Exceptions Functional Unit.
.TP
.I AP_SESS_TDATA
Session Typed Data Functional Unit.
.TP
.I AP_SESS_DATASEP
Session Data Separation Functional Unit.
.TP
.I AP_SESS_NOORDREL
Session No Orderly Release Functional Unit.
.TP
.I AP_SESS_NESTCON
Session Nested Connections Functional Unit.
.PD
.PP
The available session functional units.
Type \fBunsigned long \fP with bit values \fIAP_SESS_HALFDUPLEX\fP, \fIAP_SESS_DUPLEX\fP, \fIAP_SESS_XDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_MINORSYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_MAJORSYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_RESYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_ACTMGMT\fP, \fIAP_SESS_NEGREL\fP, \fIAP_SESS_CDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_EXCEPT\fP, \fIAP_SESS_TDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_DATASEP\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
An additional value should be added, \fIAP_SESS_NOORDREL\fP, for avialability and selection of the No-orderly-release functional unit of \*(lqITU-T Rec. X.215 (1995)/Amd.1 (1997)\*(rq.
An additional value should be added, \fIAP_SESS_NESTCON\fP, for availability and selection of the Nested-connections functional unit of \*(lqITU-T Rec. X.215 (1995)/Amd.2 (1997)\*(rq.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_SFU_SEL
The AP_SFU_SEL attribute indicates which Session Layer functional units have been requested for use
over the current association.
See \fBAP_SFU_AVAIL\fP for bit value definitions.
The default value is \fIAP_SESS_DUPLEX\fP.
.RS
.PP
The selected session functional units.
Type \fBunsigned long \fP with bit values \fIAP_SESS_HALFDUPLEX\fP, \fIAP_SESS_DUPLEX\fP, \fIAP_SESS_XDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_MINORSYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_MAJORSYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_RESYNC\fP, \fIAP_SESS_ACTMGMT\fP, \fIAP_SESS_NEGREL\fP, \fIAP_SESS_CDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_EXCEPT\fP, \fIAP_SESS_TDATA\fP, \fIAP_SESS_DATASEP\fP and default \fIAP_SESS_DUPLEX\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
An additional value should be added, \fIAP_SESS_NOORDREL\fP, for avialability and selection of the No-orderly-release functional unit of \*(lqITU-T Rec. X.215 (1995)/Amd.1 (1997)\*(rq.
An additional value should be added, \fIAP_SESS_NESTCON\fP, for availability and selection of the Nested-connections functional unit of \*(lqITU-T Rec. X.215 (1995)/Amd.2 (1997)\*(rq.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_QOS
The AP_QOS attribute is used to specify the quality of service requirements for the association. It
holds the ranges of QOS values that the XAP user is willing to accept.
.RS
.PP
The association quality of service.
Type \fBap_qos_t\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_CLG_CONN_ID
The AP_CLG_CONN_ID attribute conveys the value of the session connection identifier that was
proposed by the association-initiator.
.RS
.PP
The calling session connection identifier.
Type \fBap_conn_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_CLD_CONN_ID
The AP_CLD_CONN_ID attribute conveys the value of the session connection identifier that was
proposed by the association-responder.
.RS
.PP
The called session connection identifier.
Type \fBap_conn_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP and \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_OLD_CONN_ID
The AP_OLD_CONN_ID attribute conveys the values of the session connection identifiers from a
previous session.
.RS
.PP
The old connection identifier.
Type \fBap_old_conn_id_t\fP with default not present.
This attribute is readable always and writable only in states \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP and \fBAP_IDLE\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_TOKENS_AVAIL
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_DATA_TOK\fP, \fIAP_SYNCMINOR_TOK\fP, \fIAP_MAJACT_TOK\fP, \fIAP_RELEASE_TOK\fP.
This attribute is readable in any states except \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP, \fBAP_WASSOCcnf_ASSOCreq\fP, \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP and writable never.
The tokens available are affected by the settings of the \fBAP_SFU_SEL\fP attribute (see X.215).
.[
x215
.]
.RS
.PP
A token is an attribute of an association which is dynamically assigned to one user at a time. The
user that possesses a token has exclusive rights to initiate the service which that token
represents. The AP_TOKENS_AVAIL attribute indicates which tokens are available for assignment on
this association. The value of this attribute is dependent on AP_SFU_SEL.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_TOKENS_OWNED
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_DATA_TOK\fP, \fIAP_SYNCMINOR_TOK\fP, \fIAP_MAJACT_TOK\fP, \fIAP_RELEASE_TOK\fP.
This attribute is readable in any states except \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP, \fBAP_IDLE\fP, \fBAP_WASSOCcnf_ASSOCreq\fP, \fBAP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind\fP and writable never.
The owned tokens are affected using the \fBP_TOKENGIVE_REQ\fP(7), \fBP_TOKENGIVE_IND\fP(7), \fBP_TOKENPLEASE_REQ\fP(7) and \fBP_TOKENPLEASE_IND\fP(7) primitives.
.RS
.PP
The AP_TOKENS_OWNED attribute indicates which available tokens (see AP_TOKENS_AVAIL) are currently
assigned to the user. The user has exclusive rights to initiate the service represented by each of
the tokens owned. The value of this attribute is affected by AP_INIT_TOKENS.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_MSTATE
If the XAP instance is awaiting additional data from the user (the last ap_snd( ) call had the
AP_MORE bit set), the AP_SNDMORE bit in AP_MSTATE is set. If there is more user data for the current
service (the last call to ap_rcv( ) returned with the AP_MORE bit set) then AP_RCVMORE bit is set.
(Note that it is possible for both bits to be set.)
.RS
.PP
The segmentation state.
Type \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_SNDMORE\fP and \fIAP_RCVMORE\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.RE
.\"
.SS Library Attributes
.TP
.B AP_LIB_AVAIL
The AP_LIB_AVAIL attribute indicates which versions of XAP are available to the user.
.TP
.B AP_LIB_SEL
The AP_LIB_SEL attribute is used to indicate which version of XAP is used. This attribute must be
set before any other attributes are set or any primitives are issued.
.TP
.B AP_OPT_AVAIL
The AP_OPT_AVAIL attribute is used to indicate what optional functionality is supported in the
underlying protocol implementation. AP_XXXX_WILD indicates whether address wildcarding is supported
at the specified level. (XXXX can be NSAP, TSEL, SSEL or PSEL.) 
.TP
.B AP_QLEN
The \fBAP_QLEN\fP attribute is used to indicate the number of connection indications that will be
held by the provider when all of the connection endpoints bound for listening at \fBAP_BIND_PADDR\fP
are in use.  The user can set this attribute to request a specific queue size. The provider may
change the value if it cannot support the requested queue size or if another process bound to the
same address has already requested a larger queue. The user can determine the current queue size by
examining the value of \fBAP_QLEN\fI using \fBap_get_env\fP(3).
.RS
.PP
The association indication queue length.
Type \fBlong\fP with default zero (0).
This attribute is readable always and writable only in state \fBAP_UNBOUND\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_COPYENV
The AP_COPYENV attribute is used to indicate whether certain environment attributes that correspond
to parameters on the A-ASSOCIATE indication and confirmation services should be returned to the user
in the cdata argument of the ap_rcv( ) function. When the value of this attribute is TRUE, these
attributes are returned via the cdata argument.
.RS
.PP
Type \fBlong\fP with choice of \fITRUE\fP or \fIFALSE\fP and default \fIFALSE\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable always.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_DIAGNOSTIC
The AP_DIAGNOSTIC attribute is used to pass diagnostic details on error conditions reported by ACSE,
Presentation, Session and Transport providers, in addition to that conveyed with the A_PABORT_IND
primitive. This mechanism is used to provide descriptive text for all errors reported by XAP, and
may be used to provide additional diagnostic information (for example, errors in incoming APDUs
reported by the local ACPM, or the reason for a transport layer disconnect). It should be noted that
the information provided by this attribute is implementation dependent - that is, an implementation
may not report all of the source/reason/event combinations defined for this attribute.  However, if
an implementation does use the attribute to report diagnostic information, it must use the
classifications defined in this specification.
.RS
.PP
The additional diagnostic information.
Type \fBap_diag_t\fP.
This attribute is readable always and writable never.
.RE
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of zero
.RB ( 0 )
is returned.  Otherwise, a value of minus one
.RB ( -1 )
is returned and the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP \w'[\fBAP_NOREAD\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ AP_BADENV ]
There is no value assigned to the requested environment attribute.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADF ]
The
.I fd
argument does not identify an XAP instance.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOATTR ]
The
.I attr
argument does not specify a valid attribute type.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOENV ]
There is no XAP environment associated with
.IR fd .
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOMEM ]
XAP could not allocate sufficient memory to copy the value of the specified attribute.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOREAD ]
The specified attribute is not readable.
.PP
In addition, operating system class errors are reported.
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The OpenSS7 XAP Library and cooperating modules and drivers implement the XAP
environment attributes as XTI options and using input-output controls.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ap_free (3),
.BR ap_set_env (3),
.BR ap_env (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ap_get_env ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ap_get_env ()
is compatible with APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
and XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and implementations based on APLI or XAP, such as
.IR "USL ONP" \(rg,
.IR "Solaris Solstice OSI" \(rg,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" \(rg,
.IR "Digital DECnet/OSI" \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.
Binary compatibility is not
attempted: any exhibited binary compatibility is coincidental and is scheduled
to be removed on the next release.
.PP
See \fBAPLI\fP(3), \fBXAP\fP(3) and \fISTREAMS\fP(4) for additional
compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XAP.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_get_env ()
first appeared in XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
