'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ap_init_env.3.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-28 07:41:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 07:41:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ap_init_env.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-28 07:41:15  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/12/15 20:20:26  brian
.\" - updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:49  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:30  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_INIT_ENV 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ap_init_env
\- Establish an instance of XAP and initialize the XAP environment.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface,
APLI,
.[
APLI UNIX International
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libapli (3),
.BR libxap (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_init_env(int " fd ", const char *" env_file ", int " flags ", unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fR\(em'u
.I fd
A file descriptor that identifies the XAP instance.
.TP
.I env_file
A pointer to a string that provides the path and filename of the environment
file with which to initialized the XAP instance.
.TP
.I flags
Unused.
.TP
.I aperrno_p
A pointer to a memory extent into which to receive an error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function initialises an otherwise uninitialised XAP instance identified
by
.IR fd .
In addition,
.BR ap_init_env ()
may be used to set the values of several writable environment attributes with
a single function call rather than using
.BR ap_set_env (3)
to set each attribute individually.
.PP
If no environment exists when
.BR ap_init_env ()
is called, memory will be allocated for the environment attributes in the
calling processs data space and the attributes will be set to their default
values (see the environment description in Chapter 3). If the user wishes to
override the defaults for certain writable attributes, values for those
attributes may be specified in an initialisation file as described below.
.PP
If an environment already exists when
.BR ap_init_env ()
is called, attributes will be assigned values.
In this case, attributes will not automatically be set to their default
values.
.PP
To set the environment attributes from values stored in a file,
.I env_file
must point to a null-terminated string that is the initialisation files
pathname. An environment initialisation file is generated by processing an
.B ap_env_file
file using the
.BR ap_osic (1)
command. Setting
.I env_file
to
.B NULL
indicates that no values are to be taken from an environment initialisation
file. No error is reported if the file identified by
.I env_file
is zero length.
.PP
The environment initialisation file may contain assignments for any or all of
the attributes that are writable in the current state. The
.BR ap_init_env ()
call will fail if env_file contains an assignment for an attribute that is not
writable in the current state. Attributes that are not included in the file
will not be modified. The following specific points about initialisation of
the environment from a file should be noted:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
The values of read-only attributes are not affected by
.BR ap_init_env ().
The one exception to this is
.BR AP_LCL_PADDR .
Since
.B AP_LCL_PADDR
is set as a side effect of setting
.BR AP_BIND_PADDR ,
its value may change as an indirect result of invoking
.BR ap_init_env ()
if the value of
.B AP_BIND_PADDR
is modified.
.IP \(bu
If the environment file assigns a value to the
.B AP_BIND_PADDR
attribute, it should be noted that the Presentation address set will not be
used until the
.BR ap_bind (3)
function is called.  Calling
.BR ap_bind (3)
after
.BR ap_init_env ()
will cause the Presentation address to be validated and if the authorisation
check succeeds, then the endpoint will be moved to the
.B AP_IDLE
state. If the
.BR ap_init_env ()
function is called after a successful
.BR ap_bind (3),
then if a new Presentation address is assigned to
.BR AP_BIND_PADDR ,
the endpoint will not be re-bound until
.BR ap_bind (3)
is called again.
.PP
The
.I flags
argument to this function is currently unused.
.PP
.I aperrno_p
must be set to point to a location which will be used to carry an error code
back to the user.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CAVEATS"
.PP
The output from the
.BR ap_osic (1)
command of one XAP implementation is not necessarily readable by the
.BR ap_init_env ()
function of another XAP implementation, as the format of the intermediate file
is not defined. Environment initialisation files are therefore only guaranteed
to be portable in the
.B ap_env_file
form.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of
zero
.RB ( 0 )
is returned. Otherwise, if the call fails because of an attempt to either set
an attribute to an illegal value or set an attribute in an illegal state,
.BR ap_init_env ()
will return the value of the symbolic constant that identifies that attribute.
If the call fails for some other reason, a value of minus one
.RB ( -1 )
is returned. Either type of failure will result in the location pointed at by
.I aperrno_p
being set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.TP \w'[\fBAP_NOT_SUPPORTED\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ AP_BADATTRVAL ]
An invalid value assignment was found in the initialisation file.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADF ]
The
.I fd
argument does not identify an XAP instance.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOATTR ]
An invalid attribute type appears in the initialisation file.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOMEM ]
XAP could not allocate sufficient memory to create an environment.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOT_SUPPORTED ]
The use of a
.RB non- NULL
value for
.I env_file
is not supported by this implementation of XAP.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOWRITE ]
An assignment for an attribute that is not writable in the current state
appears in the initialisation file.
.PP
In addition, operating system class errors are reported.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ap_init_env (3)
.BR ap_osic (1)
.BR ap_bind (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR ap_init_env ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ap_init_env ()
is compatible with APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
and XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and implementations based on APLI or XAP, such as
.IR "USL ONP" \(rg,
.IR "Solaris Solstice OSI" \(rg,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" \(rg,
.IR "Digital DECnet/OSI" \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.
Binary compatibility is not
attempted: any exhibited binary compatibility is coincidental and is scheduled
to be removed on the next release.
.PP
See \fBAPLI\fP(3), \fBXAP\fP(3) and \fISTREAMS\fP(4) for additional
compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XAP.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_init_env ()
first appeared in XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
