'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ap_look.3.man,v 0.9.2.3 2007/12/15 20:20:26 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/12/15 20:20:26 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ap_look.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/12/15 20:20:26  brian
.\" - updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:49  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:31  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_LOOK 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ap_look
\- Examine next ACSE/Presentation primitive from the association/connection.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface,
APLI,
.[
APLI UNIX International
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libapli (3),
.BR libxap (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_look(int " fd ", unsigned long *" sptype ", ap_cdata_t *" cdata ", ap_osi_vbuf_t **" ubuf ", int *" flags ", unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fR\(em'u
.I fd
A file descriptor identifying the XAP instance.
.TP
.I sptype
.TP
.I cdata
.TP
.I ubuf
.TP
.I flags
.TP
.I aperrno_p
A pointer to a memory extent into which to receive an error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function is used to examine an indication or confirmation primitive without affecting the state
of XAP.
.PP
.I fd
identifies the XAP instance for which the user wishes to examine primitives.
.pP
When
.BR ap_look ()
is called,
.I sptype
must point to an
.BR "unsigned long" ,
and
.I cdata
must point to an
.B ap_cdata_t
structure.
.PP
Upon return, the value of the
.B unsigned long
pointed to by
.I sptype
will indicate the type of primitive that is currently ready to be received.
.PP
Protocol information associated with a primitive will be conveyed by the
.B ap_cdata_t
structure pointed to by
.IR cdata .
The value returned in
.I sptype
serves as the discriminant for what members of the
.I cdata
are affected. A complete discussion of the use of the
.I cdata
parameter is provided for each XAP primitive in Chapter 7.
.PP
A successful call to
.BR ap_look ()
always returns all the protocol information of a primitive (i.e. those fields in
.IR cdata )
and may return some or all of the user data associated with that primitive.
.PP
Repeated calls will return the same protocol information, the same user data and may return further
user data if the primitive was incomplete
.RB ( AP_MORE
flag was returned by the previous call) until such time as some or all of the pending primitive is
removed. It is a local matter whether an implementation returns further user data on the subsequent
call.
.PP
User-data received with a primitive will be returned to the user in the
.I ubuf
parameter. The XAP interface supports a vectored buffering scheme for handling user data. All data
buffers are passed to XAP by the user in a chain of one or more
.BR ap_osi_vbuf_t / ap_osi_dbuf_t
pairs. If there are not sufficient buffers, and
.BR ap_look ()
was called with the
.BR AP_ALLOC
flag set, XAP will use the user-supplied buffer allocation routines. If however, the XAP-user failed
to supply these routines in the
.BR ap_open (3)
call,
.BR ap_look ()
returns -1, with the location pointed at by aperrno_p set to
.BR [ AP_BADFLAGS ].
If the
.B AP_ALLOC
flag is not set, and the (user) data buffer(s) are filled before completion of processing by XAP,
.BR ap_look ()
returns with the
.BR AP_MORE
flag set.
.I ubuf
must point to a location holding a pointer to an
.B ap_osi_vbuf_t
structure, defined as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    unsigned char *db_base; /* beginning of buffer */
    unsigned char *db_lim;  /* last octet+1 of buffer */
    unsigned char db_ref;   /* reference count */
} ap_osi_dbuf_t;

typedef struct ap_osi_vbuf ap_osi_vbuf_t;

struct ap_osi_vbuf {
    ap_osi_vbuf_t *b_cont;  /* next message block */
    unsigned char *b_rptr;  /* 1st octet of data */
    unsigned char *b_wptr;  /* 1st free location */
    ap_osi_dbuf_t *b_datap; /* data block */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
User-data associated with XAP primitives is returned in a linked list of message blocks. Each message
block is represented by an
.B ap_osi_vbuf_t
structure and is associated with a data block.  Data blocks, which are represented by
.B ap_osi_dbuf_t
structures, may be associated with more than one message block. The
.B db_ref
field of the
.B ap_osi_dbuf_t
structure indicates the number of
.B ap_osi_vbuf_t
structures that reference a particular data block. The
.BR db_base " and " db_lim
fields of the
.B ap_osi_dbuf_t
structure point to the beginning and end of the data block respectively. The
.BR b_rptr " and " b_wptr
fields of the referencing
.BR ap_osi_vbuf_t
structures point to the first octets to be read and written within the data block respectively. The
.B b_cont
field of the
.B ap_osi_vbuf_t
points to the next message block in the chain or is NULL if this is the end of the list.
.PP
The user allocation routine is responsible for setting up all fields of the
.BR ap_osi_vbuf_t " and " ap_osi_dbuf_t
structures when allocating buffers.  If buffers are allocated by another mechanism,
the user must ensure that the fields of each
.BR ap_osi_vbuf_t " and " ap_osi_dbuf_t
pair in the chain are set up prior to calling
.BR ap_look ().
.PP
.BR ap_look ()
places data into any buffer where write space is available
.BR ( b_wptr " < " db_lim )
and updates
.B b_wptr
- no other fields in the
.BR ap_osi_vbuf_t / ap_osi_dbuf_t
structures are updated (with the exception of
.BR b_cont ,
which is updated when adding further
.BR ap_osi_vbuf_t / ap_osi_dbuf_t
pairs to the chain).
.PP
The user may pass full, partially full and empty receive buffers to
.BR ap_look ().
The user is responsible for ensuring that it is valid for the XAP library to fill any of the supplied
buffers from
.BR b_wptr " to " db_lim .
.PP
If the user wishes all the buffers for
.BR ap_look ()
to be allocated using the user allocation routine, then the
.I ubuf
pointer will point to a
.B NULL ap_osi_vbuf_t
pointer.
.PP
The XAP user is responsible for decoding the user data received in the
.I ubuf
parameter. The general rules for decoding user data are stated here, please see individual manual
pages in Chapter 4 for specific exceptions to these rules.
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If the
.RI \(lq X.410-1984 \(rq
mode of operation is in effect (i.e., the
.B AP_X410_MODE
bit of
.B AP_MODE_SEL
is set), the contents of
.I ubuf
buffer(s) are mapped directly from the SS-user data parameter of the equivalent session service
primitive. Refer to the ISO Presentation Layer Protocol Specification (see reference ISO 8823) for
further information concerning the encoding of these values. (The primary exception to this rule is
the A-ASSOC primitives).
.IP \(bu
If the
.RI \(lq X.410-1984 \(rq
mode of operation is not in effect and the primitive received is an ACSE primitive, the data received
in the ubuf buffer(s) must be decoded according to the definition specified in the ACSE Protocol
Specification (reference ISO 8650):
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
[30] IMPLICIT SEQUENCE OF EXTERNAL
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.IP \(bu
If the
.RI \(lq X.410-1984 \(rq
mode of operation is not in effect and the primitive received is a Presentation primitive, the data
received in the
.I ubuf
buffer(s) must be decoded according to the User-data definition specified in the Presentation Protocol
Specification (reference ISO 8823):
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
CHOICE {
    [APPLICATION 0] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING,
    [APPLICATION 1] IMPLICIT SEQUENCE OF PDV-list
}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.I flags
argument is a bit mask used to control certain aspects of XAP processing. Values for this field are
formed by OR ing together zero or more of the following flags:
.\".TP \w'\fBAP_ALLOC\fR\(em'u
.TP
.B AP_ALLOC
If
.B AP_ALLOC
is set and the user did not specify an allocation routine on
.BR ap_open (3)
(or
.BR ap_restore (3))
then -1 is returned and the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
is set to the
.RB [ AP_BADFLAGS ]
error code.
.IP ""
If no space is available in the supplied buffer chain (or the location pointed to by
.I ubuf
contains
.BR NULL )
and either
.B AP_ALLOC
is not set or
.B AP_ALLOC
is set but the user allocation routine refuses to supply any buffers, then the call to
.BR ap_look ()
fails, -1 is returned and the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
is set to the
.RB [ AP_NOBUF ]
error code.
.IP ""
Regardless of the setting of
.BR AP_ALLOC ,
the user must have set the location pointed to by
.I ubuf
either to
.B NULL
or to point to a chain of one or more buffers. The
.B AP_ALLOC
flag setting only takes effect when any supplied buffers have been filled and more data remains to be
returned to the user:
.sp
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If the
.B AP_ALLOC
flag is set and space was available in the supplied buffer chain, the user allocation routine is
called to supply further buffers as they are needed.  If the user allocation routine refuses to supply
further buffers then the
.B AP_MORE
flag is set and the call to
.BR ap_look ()
completes; 0 is returned. The user must free any buffers allocated by the user allocation routine
either by calling the
.BR ap_free (3)
function or by calling the
.BR ap_user_dealloc (3)
function directly.
.IP \(bu
If
.B AP_ALLOC
is not set and space was available in the supplied buffers, then the
.B AP_MORE
flag is set and 0 is returned.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_MORE
This flag is ignored by XAP when
.BR ap_look ()
is called.  Upon return, if all data associated with a primitive has not been received, the
.B AP_MORE
bit of the flags argument will be set. This indicates to the user that subsequent calls to
.BR ap_look ()
will return the same protocol information and user data as this call, and may as a local matter return
additional user data.  If the
.B AP_MORE
bit is not set, all data associated with the primitive has been received.
.PP
It should be noted that the
.I sptype
argument must be checked after each invocation of
.BR ap_look ()
since an unsequenced primitive (e.g.,
.BR A_PABORT_IND )
may arrive and replace the original primitive. In some cases, the original primitive may be lost.
.PP
Note it is possible for
.BR ap_look ()
to return with the
.B AP_MORE
flag set even when the
.B AP_ALLOC
flag is set, if non-blocking execution mode is being used or an expedited data primitive arrives at
the XAP instance (see below).
.PP
If XAP is being used in blocking execution mode
.RB ( AP_NDELAY
bit of the
.B AP_FLAGS
environment attribute is not set),
.BR ap_look ()
blocks until the protocol information of a primitive (i.e. those fields in
.IR cdata )
is available. Some or all of the user data associated with the primitive may also be returned to the
user.
.PP
If XAP is being used in non-blocking execution mode
.RB ( AP_NDELAY
bit of the
.B AP_FLAGS
enviromnent attribute is set),
.BR ap_look ()
will return a value of -1 and the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
is set to the
.RB [ AP_AGAIN ]
error code until the protocol information of a primitive is available. Some or all of the user data
associated with the primitive may also be returned to the user.
.PP
If an expedited data primitive arrives while an earlier primitive is being processed (that is, an
earlier indication or confirm primitive has been examined with
.BR ap_look ()
or has been partly received with
.BR ap_rcv (3)),
.BR ap_look ()
returns the expedited data primitive.  Processing of the earlier primitive is suspended. The user
should use the
.BR ap_rcv (3)
function to retrieve the expedited data primitive. Once the expedited data primitive has been
successfully received, XAP re-presents the original primitive. Note that it is possible for the
original primitive to be deferred by an expedited data primitive more than once.
.PP
If an abort primitive arrives while an earlier primitive is being processed (that is, an earlier
indication or confirm primitive has been examined with
.BR ap_look ()
or has been partly received with
.BR ap_rcv (3)),
.BR ap_look ()
will return the abort primitive. The original primitive is discarded. The user should use the
.BR ap_rcv (3)
function to retrieve the abort primitive.
.PP
.I aperrno_p
must be set to point to a location which will be used to carry an error code back to the user.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of zero
.RB ( 0 )
is returned. Otherwise, a value of
minus one
.RB ( -1 )
is returned and the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.TP \w'[\fBAP_NOT_SUPPORTED\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ AP_AGAIN ]
XAP was unable to complete the requested action. Try again.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADF ]
The
.I fd
parameter does not identify an XAP instance.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADFLAGS ]
.B AP_ALLOC
was set but a user-supplied buffer allocation routine was not specified on
.BR ap_open "(3) or " ap_restore (3).
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADLSTATE ]
XAP is in a state where
.BR ap_look ()
is not allowed (i.e.,
.BR AP_UNBOUND ).
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADUBUF ]
The buffers pointed to by
.I ubuf
are invalid.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOBUF ]
The supplied user data buffers contained no unused buffer space and, if
.B AP_ALLOC
was set, then no more buffers could be obtained.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOENV ]
There is no XAP environment associated with
.IR fd .
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOMEM ]
Out of memory.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOT_SUPPORTED ]
.BR ap_look ()
operation is not supported by this implementation of XAP.
.TP
.RB [ AP_PDUREJ ]
XAP rejected the received PDU.
.PP
In addition, operating system and asn.1 class errors are reported.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ap_open (3)
.BR ap_restore (3)
.BR ap_free (3)
.BR ap_user_dealloc (3)
.BR ap_rcv (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR ap_look ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ap_look ()
is compatible with XAP.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XAP.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_look ()
first appeared in XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4



