'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ap_ro_init.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/12/15 20:20:27 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/12/15 20:20:27 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ap_ro_init.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/12/15 20:20:27  brian
.\" - updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:12  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_RO_INIT 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ap_ro_init
\- initialize the ROSE user environment.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation ROSE Interface,
APRI,
.[
APLI UNIX International
.]
XAP-ROSE.
.[
xap-rose
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libapri (3),
.BR libxaprose (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap_rose.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_ro_init(int " fd ", unsigned long *" aperrno_p ");
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
A file descriptor returned from a call to
.BR ap_open (3).
.TP
.I aperrno_p
A pointer to a memory extent into which to return an error code if the call fails.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR ap_ro_init ()
function enables the operation of the ROSE service provider, allowing the API user to send XAP-ROSE
request primitives and causing the service provider to filter incoming primitives to identify and
deliver XAP-ROSE indication primitives.
.PP
If this function returns success, the ROSE service provider has been enabled.  It then remains
enabled until disabled by a call to
.BR ap_ro_release (3),
or the XAP-ROSE instance is closed using a call to the XAP
.BR ap_close (3)
function.  When enabled, the ROSE service provider becomes active (taht is, filters incoming PDU for
the presence of ROSE PDUs) whenever an association is established, and is dormant at other times.
.PP
When this function is called, the list of ROSE abstract syntaxes (held in the AP_RO_PCI_LIST
environment attribute) is validated to check that it contains only abstract syntaxes that are
available or will be available, and that the negotiated transfer syntaxes are supportable by the
XAP-ROSE service provider:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If
.BR ap_ro_init ()
is called when an association exists, the list is validated against those abstract syntaxes that
appear in the defined context set (held in the AP_DCS environment attribute).
.IP \(bu
If
.BR ap_ro_init ()
is called before an association has been fully established, the list is validated against the
proposed presentation context definition list (held in the AP_PCDL or AP_PCDRL environment
attribute).
.PP
If this validation step fails, the function returns an error and the ROSE service provider is not
enabled.
.PP
Arguments are as follows:
.TP
.I fd
This integer value refers to the descriptor returned from a previous
.BR ap_open (3)
call.  It identifies the library instance that supports the association.
.TP
.I aperrno_p
In case of failure,
.I aperrno_p
must be set to point to a location which will be used to carry an error code back to the user.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR ap_ro_init ()
returns zero (0).  Upon failure, it returns minus one (-1) and sets the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
to a diagnostic error code.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR ap_ro_init ()
returns minus one (-1) and set the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
to a diagnostic error code from the following:
.TP
.RB [ AP_RO_BAD_PCI ]
A PCI in the AP_RO_PCI_LIST is not in the AP_PCDL or AP_DCS.
.TP
.RB [ AP_RO_EMPTY_LIST ]
The AP_RO_PCI_LIST list has no elements.
.TP
.RB [ AP_RO_CNTX_NOT_PRES ]
One or more of the contents identified in the AP_RO_PCI_LIST is not in the relevant associations
(presentation) defined context set.
.TP
.RB [ AP_RO_ILLEGAL_SIZE ]
The AP_RO_PCI_LIST list size is not a positive value or the AP_RO_PCI_LIST list is greater than the
size of the AP_DCS attribute list.
.TP
.RB [ AP_RO_T_SYTX_NSUP ]
The transfer syntax in the AP_DCS entry for this PCI is not supported.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOT_SUPPORTED ]
The identified instance is not an XAP-ROSE instance - that is, the service provider selected in the
call to
.BR ap_open (3)
does nto support a ROSE service provider, or the AP_ROSE_MODE flag has not been set in the
AP_MODE_SEL environment attribute.
.PP
In addition, any of the error codes described for
.BR ap_error (3)
may be returned.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR aperrno (3),
.BR ap_error (3),
.BR ap_init (3),
.BR ap_close (3),
.BR ap_ro_release (3),
.BR XAP (3),
.BR XAP-ROSE (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ap_ro_init ()
is compatible with implementations based on XAP and XAP-ROSE with the following compatibility
considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR ap_ro_init ()
may also return standard XAP errors. See
.BR ap_error (3).
.IP \(em
OpenSS7 XAP libraries also take environment attribute defaults and cluse from the environment.
.PP
See
.BR XAP-ROSE (3)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_ro_init (3)
first appeared in XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library as part of the OpenSS7 Project.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T4
