'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.TH AP_RO_RELEASE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ap_ro_release
\- release the ROSE user environment.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XAP,
.[
XAP ACSE
.]
XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap_rose.h>
.HP
.BI "ap_ro_release(int " fd ", unsigned long *" aperrno_p ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
This integer value refers to the descriptor returned from a previous
.BR ap_open (3)
call.  It identifies the liberary instance that supports the association.
.TP
.I aperrno_p
In case of failure,
.I aperrno_p
must be set to point to a location that will be used to carry an error code back to the user.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR ap_ro_release ()
function releases an instance of the XAP-ROSE user environment from an established application
association.
.PP
If this function returns success, the ROSE service provider has been disabled, and will no longer be
active when an application association is esablished.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
On success,
.BR ap_ro_release ()
returns zero (0).  When an error occurs, minus one (-1) is returned and the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR ap_ro_release ()
fails, it returns minus one (-1) and sets the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
to one of the following error codes:
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOT_SUPPORTED ]
The identified instance is not an XAP-ROSE instance - that is, the service provider selected in the
call to
.BR ap_open (3)
does not support a ROSE service provider, or the AP_ROSE_MODE flag has not been set in the
AP_MODE_SEL environment attribute.
.PP
In addition to these errors, any of the errors returned from the XAP Library may also be returned.
See
.BR aperrno (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR aperrno (3),
.BR ap_error (3),
.BR ap_init (3),
.BR ap_close (3),
.BR ap_ro_init (3),
.BR XAP (3),
.BR XAP-ROSE (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ap_ro_release ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ap_ro_release ()
is compatible with implementations based on XAP and XAP-ROSE with the following compatibility
considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR ap_ro_release ()
may also return standard XAP errors.  See
.BR ap_error (3).
.IP \(em
OpenSS7 XAP libraries also take environment attributes defaults and clues from the environment.
.PP
See
.BR XAP-ROSE (3)
for additional compatiblity considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XAP,
.[
XAP ACSE
.]
XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_ro_release ()
first appeared in XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4

