'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ap_restore.3.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-28 07:41:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 07:41:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ap_restore.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-28 07:41:15  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/12/15 20:20:27  brian
.\" - updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:49  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:31  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
search-truncate 32
search-ignore XYZ
.R2
.so striso.macros
.TH AP_RESTORE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 XAP Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ap_restore
\- restore an XAP instance.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface,
APLI,
.[
APLI UNIX International
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libapli (3),
.BR libxap (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stdio.h>
.br
.B #include <xap.h>
.HP
.B typedef int (*ap_alloc_t) (int, ap_osi_vbuf_t **, void **, int, int, unsigned long *);
.HP
.B typedef int (*ap_dealloc_t) (int, ap_osi_vbuf_t *, void *, int, unsigned long *);
.HP
.BR "int " ap_restore(
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI "int " fd ,
.HP
.BI "FILE *" savef ,
.HP
.BI "int " oflags ,
.HP
.BI "ap_alloc_t " ap_user_alloc ,
.HP
.BI "ap_dealloc_t " ap_user_dealloc ,
.HP
.BI "unsigned long *" aperrno_p
.RE
.PD
.HP
.RB );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I fd
a file descriptor associated with an XAP instance, compatible communications endpoint or XAP service provider.
.TP
.I savef
a file pointer to an open file from which to restore the environment.
.TP
.I oflags
flags for the restoration.  This may contain the flag
.BR AP_BUFFERS_ONLY .
.TP
.I ap_user_alloc
provides a function pointer to a user-supplied allocation function, or
.BR NULL .
.TP
.I ap_user_dalloc
provides a function pointer to a user-supplied deallocation function, or
.BR NULL .
.TP
.I aperrno_p
provides a pointer to an extent into which to provide an error.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR ap_restore ()
is used in conjunction with
.BR ap_save (3).
It provides a way for cooperating processes to share a single instance of XAP.
The
.BR ap_restore ()
function recreates the XAP instance that was saved to the file associated with the file pointer,
.IR savef ,
in the calling process address space.
.PP
Used with a
.B NULL
.I savef
argument, this function provides a means for applications which are invoked by an \*(lqAssociation Listener,\*(rq see
.BR XAP (3),
to:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
establish an XAP environment.
.IP \(bu
restore the XAP instance state to
.BR AP_IDLE .
.IP \(bu
set the local presentation address from information held within the communications provider.
.PP
The restored XAP instance will be supported by the communication endpoint identified by
.IR fd .
This must be the same communication endpoint that supported this instance of XAP when it was saved or transferred by
an \*(lqAssociation Listener\*(rq.  As the service provider cannot detect whether or not a restore has been performed
to the same communication endpoint, the behaviour of the service provider in this case is not specified.
.PP
.I fd
will be used to identify the restored instance of XAP in subsequent invocation of XAP functions.  If the
communications endpoint identified by the file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
currently supports an XAP instance, the instance is released prior to being recreated using the snapshot saved in the
file associated with file pointer,
.IR savef ,
along with user allocation and deallocation routines passed in the
.IR ap_user_alloc "() and " ap_user_dealloc ()
arguments.
.PP
The file pointer,
.IR savef ,
must have been opened for reading.  The
.BR ap_restore ()
function begins reading from the current position in the file and does not close the file pointer,
.IR savef ,
when it finishes.
.PP
The flags argument,
.IR oflags ,
may be used to control aspects of buffer allocation.  The user may choose to supply allocation and deallocation
routines for receive buffers while allowing XAP to handle allocation of memory for values of environment attributes.
This is indicated by setting the
.B AP_BUFFERS_ONLY
flag in the flags argument,
.IR oflags .
.\"
.\"
.SS Buffer Allocation
.PP
The
.IR ap_user_alloc ()
argument is a pointer to a user-supplied memory allocation function.  The synopsis for a user-supplied memory
allocation function is:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
int ap_user_alloc(
    int fd,
    ap_osi_vbuf_t **buf,
    void **mem,
    int size,
    int type,
    unsigned long *aperrno_p);
\s+2\fP
.fi
.PP
This function is used by the XAP instance identified by
.I fd
to allocate either memory or buffer space.  The
.I type
field takes the values
.BR AP_BUFFERS " or " AP_MEMORY .
When
.B AP_BUFFERS
is specified, a linked set of
.B ap_osi_vbuf_t
structures are returned in
.IR buf ,
and
.I size
indicates the number of octets of space requested.  Notice that
.I mem
is not used in this case, and that a user allocation routine may return less or more space than requested.  When
.B AP_MEMORY
is specified, a block of memory is returned in
.IR mem ,
and
.I size
indicates the number of octets of space requested.  Notice that
.I buf
is not used in this case.  Upon successful completion, a value of zero (0) is returned.  Otherwise, a value of minus
one (-1) is returned and the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
is set to indicate the error.
.PP
The
.IR ap_user_dealloc ()
argument is a pointer to a user-supplied memory deallocation function.  The synopsis for a user-supplied memory
deallocation function is:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
int ap_user_dealloc(
    int fd,
    ap_osi_vbuf_t *buf,
    void *mem,
    int type,
    unsigned long *aperrno_p);
\s+2\fP
.fi
.PP
This function is used by the XAP instance identified by the file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
to deallocated either the memory or buffers that it allocated.  The
.I type
field takes the values
.BR AP_BUFFERS " or " AP_MEMORY .
WHen
.B AP_BUFFERS
is specified, all buffers in the chain pointed to by
.I buf
are freed.  Note that
.I mem
is not used in this case.  When
.B AP_MEMORY
is specified, the memory pointed to by
.I mem
is freed.  Note that
.I buf
is not used in this case.  Upon successful completion, a value of zero (0) is returned.  Otherwise, a value of minus
one (-1) is returned an the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
is set to indicated the error.
.PP
.B Note:
If the
.I ap_user_alloc
and
.I ap_user_dealloc
argument combination is invalid, minus one (-1) is returned and the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
is set to the
.RB [ AP_BADALLOC ]
error code; any existing XAP instance remains unchanged.
.PP
The user allocation and deallocation routine parameters
.RI ( ap_user_alloc "() and " ap_user_dealloc ())
must either both be
.RB non- NULL
or
.BR NULL .
If they are both
.BR NULL ,
XAP will use built-in functions to allocate and deallocate memory from the user memory space.  The user supplied or
built-in allocation routines are called by XAP to obtain or return memory for environment attributes.
.PP
.B Note:
XAP users are advised that allowing
.IR ap_user_alloc ()
to default to the XAP-supplied memory allocation mechanism means that the application is unable to apply flow control.
In this case, special attention must be paid to the handling of unlimited user data on inbound events.
.PP
Coordination between several cooperating processes sharing the same XAP instance can be achieved by using the file
permission and file and record locking capabilities of the operating system to control access to the save file
associated with argument,
.IR savef .
.PP
It should be noted that the
.BR ap_restore ()
function does not provide a way to \*(lqroll-back\*(rq the state of the service provider.  Events that were processed
after an XAP instance was saved cannot be recovered by restoring the isntance to its state before the messages were
consumed.
.PP
.I aperrno_p
must be set to point to a location that will be used to carry an error code back to the user.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of zero
.RB ( 0 )
is returned. Otherwise, a value of
minus one
.RB ( -1 )
is returned and the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADALLOC ]
The
.IR ap_user_alloc "() and " ap_user_dealloc ()
argument combination was invalid.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADF ]
The file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
does not identify an XAP instance.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADPARSE ]
XAP was unable to read the contents of the environment from
.IR savef .
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADRESTR ]
The environment cannot be restored because the current environment is being used to send/receive data (i.e., utilizing
the
.B AP_MORE
bit).
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADSAVEF ]
The argument,
.IR savef ,
is
.BR NULL ,
or was opened improperly.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOT_SUPPORTED ]
The
.BR ap_restore ()
operation is not supported by this implementation of XAP.
.PP
Also, operating system class errors are reported.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The behaviour of an XAP instance that has been restored in an improper manner is undefined by the standard.  This
includes all cases in which there has been any intervening operation on the supporting communication endpoint between
the time the instance was saved and the time it was restored.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
There are several ways to implement the XAP library to make these functions unnecessary and that is the approach
taken by the OpenSS7 APLI library which lacks these functions.  The approaches are as follows:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
Save the XAP environment associated with
.I fd
in the service provider (i.e. within the kernel driver) and translate ap_get_env() and ap_set_env() calls into
input-output controls that affect the environment associated with the file descriptor.  In this case, forking a child
with an open file descriptor automatically transfers the environment and ap_restore() with a NULL savef argument is a
noop.
.IP 2.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ap_save (3),
.BR ap_init_env (3),
.BR XAP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR ap_restore ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ap_restore ()
is compatible with
XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and implementations based on XAP, such as
.IR "USL ONP" \(rg,
.IR "Solaris Solstice OSI" \(rg,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" \(rg,
.IR "Digital DECnet/OSI" \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.
Any exhibited binary compatibility is coincidental and is scheduled
to be removed on the next release.
.PP
See
.BR XAP (3)
and
.IR STREAMS (4)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XNS,
.[
xns 5.2
.]
XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
XAP-ROSE.
.[
xap-rose
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_restore ()
first appeared in XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
The SVR 4.2 APLI library does not support this function directly, but, rather, may use the
.BR apli_init_env (3)
function instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4



