'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ap_snd.3.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-25 08:38:27 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-25 08:38:27 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ap_snd.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-25 08:38:27  brian
.\" - working up libraries modules and drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-16 17:34:22  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\"
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_SND 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ap_snd
\- send and ACSE/Presentation primitive over an association
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface,
APLI,
.[
apli unix international
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libapli (3),
.BR libxap (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap.h>
.HP
.B int ap_snd(
.br
.BI "int " fd ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long " sptype ,
.br
.BI "ap_cdata_t *" cdata ,
.br
.BI "ap_osi_vbuf_t *" ubuf ,
.br
.BI "int " flags ,
.br
.BI "unsigned long *" aperrno_p );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fIaperrno_p\fP\(em'u
.I fd
Identifies the XAP Library instance as returned by
.BR ap_open (3).
.TP
.I sptype
Specifies the primitive to send.
.TP
.I cdata
Points to a
.B ap_cdata_t
structure that contains primary information for the sent primitive.
.TP
.I ubuf
Points to a
.B ap_osi_vbuf_t
buffer chain that, form which the data associated with the primitive will be
sent.
.TP
.I flags
Option flags that contain a bit mask that controls certain aspects of how the
.BR ap_snd ()
invocation is handled by XAP.
.TP
.I aperrno_p
Points to an area into which to receive an error code upon failure.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function is used to sent a request or response primitive.
.I fd
identifies the XAP instance for which the primitive is to be sent.  The
.I sptype
parameter contains the symbolic constant defined in
.RB < xap.h >
that identifies the primitive to be sent.  They symbolic constants are derived
from the primitive names by prefixing the name with
.BR AP_ .
The table below lists the primitives that can be sent using
.BR ap_snd (),
and the associated states.  The following information is provided in the table:
.TP
.B primitive
The name of the primitive.
.TP
.B valid in states
The states during which this primitive may be sent (states are given as values
of the
.B AP_STATE
attribute).
.TP
.B next state
The state that will be entered upon successfully issuing this primitive (states
are given as the value of the
.B AP_STATE
attribute).
.PP
.TS
center box tab(:);
cbss.
Primitive/State Relationships
_
.T&
cb|cb|cb
l|l|l.
primitive:valid in states:next state
_
A_ABORT_REQ:all except:AP_IDLE
:AP_UNBOUND:
:AP_IDLE:
_
A_ASSOC_REQ:AP_IDLE:AP_WASSOCcnf_ASSOCreq
_
A_ASSOC_RSP:AP_WASSOCrsp_ASSOCind:(AP_IDLE, AP_DATA_XFER)
_
A_PABORT_REQ:all except:AP_IDLE
:AP_UNBOUND:
:AP_IDLE:
_
A_RELEASE_REQ:AP_DATA_XFER:AP_WRELcnf_RELreq
:AP_WRELrsp_RELind:
_
A_RELEASE_RSP:AP_WRELrsp_RELind:(AP_IDLE, AP_DATA_XFER)
:AP_WRELrsp_RELind_init:AP_WRELcnf_RELreq
_
P_ACTDISCARD_REQ:AP_WSYNCMAcnf_SYNCMAreq:AP_WACTDcnf_ACTDreq
:AP_WACTEcnf_ACTEreq:
:AP_WRESYNrsp_RESYNind:
:AP_WRECOVERYreq:
:AP_DATA_XFER:
_
P_ACTDISCARD_RSP:AP_WACTDrsp_ACTDind:AP_DATA_XFER
_
P_ACTEND_REQ:AP_DATA_XFER:AP_WACTEcnf_ACTEreq
_
P_ACTEND_RSP:AP_WACTErsp_ACTEind:AP_DATA_XFER
_
P_ACTINTR_REQ:AP_WSYNCMAcnf_SYNCMAreq:AP_WACTIcnf_ACTIreq
:AP_WACTEcnf_ACTEreq
:AP_WRESYNrsp_RESYNind
:AP_WRECOVERYreq
:AP_DATA_XFER
:AP_WCDATAcnf_CDATAreq
:(if an only if no QOS
:extended control parameter
:has been selected for the
:association)
_
P_ACTINTR_RSP:AP_WACTIrsp_ACTIind:AP_DATA_XFER
_
P_ACTRESUME_REQ:AP_DATA_XFER:no state change
_
P_ACTSTART_REQ:AP_DATA_XFER:no state change
_
P_CDATA_REQ:AP_DATA_XFER:AP_WCDATAcnf_CDATAreq
_
P_CDATA_RSP:AP_WCDATArsp_CDATAind:AP_DATA_XFER
_
P_CTRLGIVE_REQ:AP_DATA_XFER:no state change
_
P_DATA_REQ:AP_DATA_XFER:no state change
:AP_WRELrsp_RELind
:AP_WSYNCMArsp_SYNCMAind
:AP_WACTErsp_ACTEind
_
P_RESYNC_REQ:AP_DATA_XFER:AP_WRESYNcnf_RESYNreq
:AP_WSYNCMAcnf_SYNCMAreq
:AP_WRELrsp_RELind
:AP_WSYNCMArsp_SYNCMAind
:AP_WACTErsp_ACTEind
:AP_WRESYNrsp_RESYNind
:AP_WRECOVERYreq
_
P_RESYNC_RSP:AP_WRESYNrsp_RESYNind:AP_DATA_XFER
_
P_SYNCMAJOR_REQ:AP_DATA_XFER:AP_SYNCMAcnf_SYNCMAreq
_
P_SYNCMAJOR_RSP:AP_SYNCMArsp_SYNCMAind:AP_DATA_XFER
_
P_SYNCMINOR_REQ:AP_DATA_XFER:no state change
_
P_SYNCMINOR_RSP:AP_DATA_XFER:no state change
:AP_WRELrsp_RELind
:AP_WSYNCMArsp_SYNCMAind
:AP_WACTErsp_ACTEind
_
P_TDATA_REQ:AP_DATA_XFER:no state change
:AP_WRELrsp_RELind
:AP_WSYNCMArsp_SYNCMAind
:AP_WACTErsp_ACTEind
_
P_TOKENGIVE_REQ:AP_DATA_XFER:no state change
:AP_WSYNCMAcnf_SYNCMAreq:no state change
:AP_WACTEcnf_ACTEreq:no state change
:AP_WSYNCMArsp_SYNCMAind:no state change
:AP_WACTErsp_ACTEind:no state change
:AP_WRECOVERYreq:(no state change or
::AP_DATA_XFER)
_
P_TOKENPLEASE_REQ:AP_DATA_XFER:no state change
:AP_WRELrsp_RELind
:AP_WSYNCMArsp_SYNCMAind
:AP_WACTErsp_ACTEind
:AP_WCDATArsp_CDATAind
_
P_UXREPORT_REQ:AP_WRELrsp_RELind:AP_WRECOVERYind
:AP_WSYNCMArsp_SYNCMAind
:AP_WACTErsp_ACTEind
:AP_DATA_XFER
_
P_XDATA_REQ:AP_DATA_XFER:no state change
:AP_WRELrsp_RELind
:AP_WSYNCMArsp_SYNCMAind
:AP_WACTErsp_ACTEind
.TE
.PP
The following table lists the environment attributes associated with each
primitive.  The following information is provided in the table:
.TP
.B primitive
The name of the primitive.
.TP
.B must be set
The list of XAP environment attributes that must be set prior to issuing the
primitive.
.sp
Note that some attribute that had to be set to enter a state where this
primitive is legal may not be listed.  Attributes other than those listed may be
required by the remote application entity.
.TP
.B may be used
A list of XAP environment attribute may be set prior to sending this primitive
and the values which will have an affect on the primitive.
.TP
.B may change
A list of the attribtues that may change as a result of sending this primitive.
.PP
.TS
center box tab(:);
cbsss.
Primitive/Attribute Relationship
_
.T&
cb|cb|cb|cb
l|l|l|l.
primitive:must be set:may be used:may change
_
A_ABORT_REQ:none:none:AP_STATE
_
A_ASSOC_REQ:AP_BIND_PADDR:AP_ASCE_SEL:AP_ROLE_CURRENT
:AP_CNTX_NAME:AP_CLD_AEID:AP_STATE
:AP_LCL_PADDR:AP_CLD_AEQ
:AP_REM_PADDR:AP_CLD_APID
:AP_LIB_SEL:AP_CLD_APT
::AP_CLG_AEID
::AP_CLG_AEQ
::AP_CLG_APID
::AP_CLG_APT
::AP_CLG_CONN_ID
::AP_DPCN
::AP_INIT_SYNC_PT
::AP_INIT_TOKENS
::AP_MODE_SEL
::AP_PCDL
::AP_PFU_SEL
::AP_PRES_SEL
::AP_QOS
::AP_ROLE_ALLOWED
::AP_SESS_SEL
::AP_SFU_SEL
_
A_ASSOC_RSP:none:AP_BIND_PADDR:AP_DCS
::AP_CLD_CONN_ID:AP_STATE
::AP_CNTX_NAME:AP_TOKENS_OWNED
::AP_DPCR
::AP_INIT_SYNC_PT
::AP_INIT_TOKENS
::AP_PCDRL
::AP_PRES_SEL
::AP_QOS
::AP_RSP_AEID
::AP_RSP_AEQ
::AP_RSP_APID
::AP_RSP_APT
::AP_SFU_SEL
_
A_PABORT_REQ:none:none:AP_STATE
_
A_RELEASE_REQ:none:none:AP_STATE
_
A_RELEASE_RSP:none:none:AP_STATE
_
P_ACTDISCARD_REQ:none:none:AP_STATE
_
P_ACTDISCARD_RSP:none:none:AP_STATE
:::AP_TOKENS_OWNED
_
P_ACTEND_REQ:none:none:AP_STATE
:::AP_TOKENS_OWNED
_
P_ACTEND_RSP:none:none:AP_STATE
_
P_ACTINTR_REQ:none:none:AP_STATE
_
P_ACTINTR_RSP:none:none:AP_STATE
:::AP_TOKENS_OWNED
_
P_ACTRESUME_REQ:none:none:none
_
P_ACTRESUME_RSP:none:none:AP_TOKENS_OWNED
_
P_CDATA_REQ:none:none:none
_
P_CDATA_RSP:none:none:none
_
P_CTRLGIVE_REQ:none:none:AP_TOKENS_OWNED
_
P_DATA_REQ:none:none:AP_TOKENS_OWNED
_
P_RESYNC_REQ:none:none:AP_STATE
_
P_RESYNC_RSP:none:none:AP_STATE
:::AP_TOKENS_OWNED
_
P_SYNCMAJOR_REQ:none:none:AP_STATE
:::AP_TOKENS_OWNED
_
P_SYNCMAJOR_RSP:none:none:AP_STATE
_
P_SYNCMINOR_REQ:none:none:AP_TOKENS_OWNED
_
P_SYNCMINOR_RSP:none:none:none
_
P_TDATA_REQ:none:none:none
_
P_TOKENGIVE_REQ:none:none:AP_STATE
:::AP_TOKENS_OWNED
_
P_TOKENPLEASE_REQ:none:none:none
_
P_UXREPORT_REQ:none:none:AP_STATE
_
P_XDATA_REQ:none:none:none
.TE
.PP
.BR ap_snd ()
returns
.RB [ AP_BADLSTATE ]
when
.I sptype
indicates a primitive that is not valid in the current state of the XAP
instance.  This error indicates a program logic error.  Thus the XAP-user must
keep track of the state of the instance.
.PP
.BR ap_snd ()
returns
.RB [ AP_LOOK ]
when:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The primitive specified in
.I sptype
is made invalid by an incoming event that has been processed by the underlying
service provider but has not yet been received by the XAP-user, or,
.IP 2.
expedited data is available for the XAP-user to receive.
.PP
The
.RB [ AP_LOOK ]
return code does not indicate a program logic error.  It only indicates that the
XAP-user should issue
.BR ap_rcv (3)
calls to process one or more outstanding incoming events and then take action
appropriate to the current state of the instance.  For example, since receiving
expedited data does not result in a state change, the
.BR ap_snd ()
which returned
.RB [ AP_LOOK ]
could be reissued.  This includes an
.BR ap_snd ()
that is part of an in-progress send discussed below.
.PP
As another example, suppose XAP receives a P-RESYNC indication primitive in
state
.BR AP_DATA_XFER .
The XAP state is inconsistent with that of the presentatoin service provider.
If the XAP-user issues
.BR ap_snd ()
to send
.BR P_DATA_REQ (7)
primitive, XAP returns
.RB [ AP_LOOK ]
forcing the user to call
.BR ap_rcv (3)
to receive the
.BR P_RESYNC_IND (7)
primitive.  This causes the XAP instance's state to become
.BR AP_WRESYNrsp_RESYNind.
The XAP-user should send a
.BR P_RESYNC_RSP (7)
primitive to return to state
.BR AP_DATA_XFER .
A
.BR P_RESYNC_IND (7)
primitive has the effect of terminating any send in progress at that point.  An
XAP-user, after getting
.RB [ AP_LOOK ]
and receiving
.BR P_RESYNC_IND (7),
should assume any in-progress send was terminated by XAP.
.IP \fBNote:\fP \w'\fBNote:\fP\(em'u
.RB [ AP_LOOK ]
implies that the XAP implementation includes some mechanism which permits a
delay between a primitive being processed by the service provider and that
primitive being passed to the API user.  Thus, some implementations of XAP may
not be capable of generating this return code.
.PP
If the primitive being sent is to be accompanied by protocol information, that
information must be contained in an
.B ap_cdata_t
structure pointed to by
.IR cdata .
The manual pages in Section 7 describe the use of the
.I cdata
arugment with each XAP primitive.  If no additional protocol information is to
be sent with an XAP primitive,
.I cdata
may be
.BR NULL .
.PP
User-data can be sent with many XAP primitives.  If no user-data is to be sent
with a primitive,
.I ubuf
may be set to
.BR NULL .
To send data,
.I ubuf->buf
must point to a linked list of
.B ap_osi_vbuf_t
structures.  These structures allow data stored in several different buffers to
be sent with a single
.BR ap_snd ()
invocation.  The
.B ap_osi_vbuf_t
structure is defined as follows:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    unsigned char *db_base;
    unsigned char *db_lim;
    unsigned char *db_ref;
} ap_osi_dbuf_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    ap_osi_vbuf_t *b_cont;
    unsigned char *b_rptr;
    unsigned char *b_wptr;
    ap_osi_dbuf_t *b_datap;
} ap_osi_vbuf_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.I b_cont
field of the
.B ap_osi_vbuf_t
structure points to the next buffer in the chain or is
.B NULL
if this is the end of the list.  The
.I b_datap
element points to a data block that contains encoded user data.  The
.I b_rptr
element points to the beginning of the user-data within the data block while
.I b_wptr
references the location following the last octet of data in the buffer.
.PP
Each data block is represented by an
.B ap_osi_dbuf_t
structure.  The
.I db_ref
element of the
.B ap_osi_dbuf_t
structure indicates the number of
.B ap_osi_vbuf_t
structures that reference this data block.  The
.I db_base
element points to the beginning of a buffer and
.I db_lim
indicates the end of that buffer (buffer size ==
.IR db_lim " - " db_base ).
.PP
The XAP user is responsible for encoding the user data passed to XAP in the
.I ubuf
parameter.  The general rules for decoding user data are stated here, please see
individual manual pages in Section 7 for specific exceptions to these rules.
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If the
.RI \(lq X.410-1984 \(rq
mode of operation is in effect (i.e., the
.B AP_X410_MODE
bit of
.B AP_MODE_SEL
is set), the contents of
.I ubuf
buffer(s) are mapped directly from the SS-user data parameter of the equivalent
session service primitive.  Refer to the ISO Presentation Layer Protocol
Specification (see reference ISO 8823)
.[
iso 8823
.]
for further information concerning the encoding of these values.  (The primary
exception to this rule is the A-ASSOCIATE primitives:
.BR A_ASSOC_REQ (7),
.BR A_ASSOC_IND (7),
.BR A_ASSOC_RSP (7),
.BR A_ASSOC_CNF (7).)
.IP \(bu
If the
.RI \(lq X.410-1984 \(rq
mode of operation is not in effect and the primitive received is an ACSE
primitive, the data received in the
.I ubuf
buffer(s) must be decoded according to the definition specified in the ACSE
Protocol Specification (reference ISO 8650)
.[
iso 8650-1
.]
as follows:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
[30] IMPLICIT SEQUENCE OF EXTERNAL
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.IP \(bu
If the
.RI \(lq X.410-1984 \(rq
mode of operation is not in effect and the primitive received is a Presentation
primitive, the data received in the
.I ubuf
buffer(s) must be decoded according to the User-data definition specified in the
Presentation Protocol Specification (reference ISO 8823)
.[
iso 8823
.]
as follows:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
CHOICE {
    [APPLICATION 0] IMPLICIT OCTET STRING,
    [APPLICATION 1] IMPLICIT SEQUENCE OF PDV-list
}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.I flags
argument is a bit mask that can be used to control certain aspects of how the
.BR ap_snd ()
invocation is handled by XAP.  Legal values for the
.I flags
argument are formed by OR'ing together zero or more of the flags described
below:
.TP
.B AP_MORE
This flag indicates that data ssociated with the specified primitive will be
sent with multiple
.BR ap_snd ()
calls.  Each
.BR ap_snd ()
call with the
.B AP_MORE
bit set indicates that another
.BR ap_snd ()
will follow with additional data associated with the specified primitive.  The
value of the
.I sptype
argument must be the same for all
.BR ap_snd ()
calls used to send a single primitive.  Calling
.BR ap_snd ()
with the
.B AP_MORE
bit reset signals that the primitive is complete.
.TP
.B AP_QUERY_DATA_PENDING
This flag indicates to XAP that a check shall be made for the availability of
incoming data on the connection and that if data is available, this shall be
indicated by returning a result of minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and setting
.I aperrno_p
as indicated below.
.PP
If XAP is being used in blocking execution mode (i.e., the
.B AP_NDELAY
bit of the
.B AP_FLAGS
attribute is not set),
.BR ap_snd ()
blocks until sufficient resources are available to permit all of the data in the
.I ubuf
buffer(s) to be sent.  If XAP is being used in non-blocking execution mode
(i.e., the
.B AP_NDELAY
bit of the
.B AP_FLAGS
attribute is set),
.BR ap_snd ()
may return after having sent only a portion of the data to the A/P-Provider.  If
all data is not sent,
.BR ap_snd ()
will return a value of minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
is set to the
.RB [ AP_AGAIN ]
error code.  The user must continue to call
.BR ap_snd ()
with exactly the same arguments until the function completes successfully (i.e.,
returns a value of zero
.RB ( 0 )).
.PP
If
.B AP_MORE
is set by the user or if
.RB [ AP_AGAIN ]
is returned by XAP, sending a primitive requires multiple invocations of
.BR ap_snd ().
In general,
.BR ap_snd ()
is issued repeatedly with the same primitive until:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The user resets the
.B AP_MORE
flag, and
.IP 2.
XAP returns success, i.e., does not return
.RB [ AP_AGAIN ]
error code, or,
.IP 3.
XAP returns the
.RB [ AP_LOOK "] or [" AP_HANGUP ]
error codes.
.PP
An association can be aborted by the user even if a send is in progress, i.e.,
conditions 1 and 2 have not been met.  An
.BR ap_snd ()
specifying
.BR A_ABORT_REQ "(7) or " A_PABORT_REQ (7)
will cause the in-progress send and the association to be aborted.  An
.BR ap_close (3)
will also have this effect.
.PP
It is not permissible to issue
.BR ap_snd ()
specifying any primitive other than
.BR A_ABORT_REQ "(7) or " A_PABORT_REQ (7)
while there is a send in progress.  If this is attempted, XAP returns the
.RB [ AP_BADLSTATE ]
error code.
.PP
The XAP user must not prematurely terminate an in-progress send by resetting
.B AP_MORE
as this will result in a partial APDU being sent to the remote system that, in
turn, may cause the remote system to abort the application association.
.PP
.I aperrno_p
must be set to point to a location that will be used to carry an error code back
to the user.
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
See
.BR ap_env (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of zero
.RB ( 0 )
is returned.  Otherwise, a value of minus one
.RB ( -1 )
is returned and the location pointed to by
.I aperrno_p
is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP \w'[\fBAP_SUCCESS_DATA_PENDING\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ AP_ACCES ]
The user is not authorized to use the address specified for
.BR AP_BIND_PADDR .
.TP
.RB [ AP_AGAIN ]
XAP was unable to complete the requested action.  Try again.
.TP
.RB [ AP_AGAIN_DATA_PENDING ]
XAP was unable to complete the requested action.  Try again.  There is an event
available for the user to receive.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADDATA ]
User data not allowed on this service.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADENV ]
A mandatory environment attribute is not set.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADF ]
The
.I fd
parameter does not identify an XAP instance.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADFLAGS ]
The specified combination of flags is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADLSTATE ]
The specified primitive cannot be issued in current state.
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADPRIM ]
The specified primitive is not valid (i.e., unknown type, or known type but
corresponds to an unavaialble service).
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADUBUF ]
The length given for user data does not match what was sent; or the
.B AP_MORE
bit was reset but no data was given for a primitive that is not associated with
either an ACSE or Presentation PDU.
.TP
.RB [ AP_DATA_OVERFLOW ]
User data and presentation service pci exceeds 512 bytes on session V1 or the
length of the user data exceeds a locally defined limit, as state in the CSQ.
.TP
.RB [ AP_HANGUP ]
The association has been aborted.  Use
.BR ap_rcv ()
to read the abort indication.
.TP
.RB [ AP_LOOK ]
A pending event requires attention.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOENV ]
There is no XAP environment associated with
.IR fd .
.TP
.RB [ AP_SUCCESS_DATA_PENDING ]
The requested action was completed successfully.  There is an event available
for the user to receive.
.PP
In addition, operating system, asn.1, acse, presentation, session and transport
class errors are reported.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
It is notworthy that the
.BR ap_osi_vbuf_t " and " ap_osi_dbuf_t
mirrors the
.BR mblk_t "(9) and " dblk_t (9)
of
.IR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ap_open (3),
.BR close (2),
.BR APLI (3),
.BR XAP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ap_snd ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ap_snd ()
is compatible with APLI
.[
apli unix international
.]
and XAP,
.[
xap c303
.]
and implementations based on APLI or XAP, such as
.IR "Solstice OSI 9.0" ,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" ,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" ,
.IR "SVR 4.2 ONP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.  Binary compatibility will fail due to
the lack of published and standard symbolic constants.
.IP \(em
.PP
See \fBAPLI\fP(3), \fBXAP\fP(3) and \fISTREAMS\fP(4) for additional
compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
APLI,
.[
apli unix international
.]
XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_snd ()
first appeared in APLI.
.[
apli unix international
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XAP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
