'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: apli_open.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/11/06 11:43:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/06 11:43:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: apli_open.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:13  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_OPEN 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ap_open
\- open APLI instance.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface (APLI).
.[
APLI UNIX International
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ap_lib.h>
.br
.B #include <osi_lib.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_open(
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI "char *" pathname ,
.TP
.BI "int " oflags
.RE
.HP
.BI );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I pathname
.TP
.I oflags
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function creates a new instance of APLI that uses the service provider specified by
.IR pathname .
In the case of the SunLink implementation of APLI,
.I pathname
must identify the device
.BR /dev/oopi
that corresponds to the SunLink OSI Communication Platform.  Note that
.I pathname
may be the actual device name
.BR /dev/oopi ,
or a symbolic link that points to this device.
.PP
The SunLink implementation of APLI will not access a NULL value for
.IR pathname .
.PP
The
.I oflags
argument is a bit mase set to
.B O_NDELAY
to request non-blocking execution mode (no delay).  Unless specified otherwise, the API instance
operates in blocking mode.
.PP
The APLI environment must be initialized using a call to the
.BR ap_init_env (3)
function before the APLI instance can be used to send or receive primitives.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
On successful completion,
.BR ap_open ()
returns the integer value file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
that is used to identify the service provider in all subsequent function calls.  Otherwise, a value
of minus one
.RB ( -1 )
is returned an
.BR ap_errno (3)
is set to indicate the error.
The corresponding error message is returned by calling the
.BR ap_error (3)
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOMEM ]
.PP
In addition, operating system class errors are reported.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
The following code fragment shows how
.BR ap_open ()
can be used to open an APLI isntance that will operate in blocking mode (default) by setting
.I oflags
to NULL or zero.  To operate in non-blocking mode,
.I oflags
must be set to
.B O_NDLEAY
(no delay).
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#include <ap_lib.h>
#include <osi_lib.h>

int
OpenApliInst(void)
{
    int fd;
    char *descName = "/dev/oopi";

    if ((fd = ap_open(descName, NULL)) == FAIL) {
        printf("Error in ap_open %s \n", ap_error());
        return (FAIL);
    }
    return (fd);
}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @pkgincludedir@/ap_lib.h
.TP
.B @pkgincludedir@/osi_lib.h
.TP
.B @pkgincludedir@/ap_poll.h
.TP
.B @libdir@/libapli.a
.TP
.B @libdir@/libapli.so.1
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.TP
.BR apmod (4)
.TP
.BR romod (4)
.TP
.BR tpmod (4)
.TP
.BR momod (4)
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/oopi ", " /dev/streams/clone/oopi
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ap_open ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR apmod (4),
.BR ap_close (3),
.BR APLI (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBLITY
.PP
.BR ap_open ()
is compatible with APLI,
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
and implementation based on APLI such as
.IR "Solaris\(rg SunLink OSI" ,
.IR "Solaris\(rg Solstice OSI" ,
.IR "HP OSI Transport Services/9000 (OTS/9000)" ,
.IR "SVR 4.2 Open Network Services (ONS)" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
SunLink 8.1
.[
sunlink apli
.]
only supports the
.B /dev/oopi
device, or a symbolic link to that device, in the
.I pathname
argument.
OpenSS7 APLI Library supports device
.B /dev/oopi
as well as any device that acts as an ASCE/Presentaiton provider.
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR APLI (3)
and
.BR STREAMS (4)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
APLI.
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_open ()
first appeared in APLI.
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 APLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T2
