'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: apli_error.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-16 17:34:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-16 17:34:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: apli_error.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:22  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:13  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_ERROR 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ap_error
\- return an error message.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface (APLI).
.[
APLI UNIX International
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ap_lib.h>
.br
.B #include <osi_lib.h>
.HP
.BI "char *ap_error(
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI void
.RE
.HP
.BI );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function returns a pointer to a message that correspond to the error code returned in
.BR ap_errno (3).
The error code
.BR ap_errno (3)
is set each time a function returns with a value of
minus one (-1).
.PP
The message is in the natural language of the currently defined LOCALE.  The pointer will point to
.BR NULL
if no such message is available under the currently defined LOCALE.  For English language locales,
the message must be one of the messages listed below.
.PP
All error codes that are not APLI errors (and thus do not map to error strings) will return a
generic error string.
.PP
The message pointer points to an internal buffer area that is overwritten by the next call to
.BR ap_error (3).
To retain the message text, it should be copied to some private storage.  A successful function
call, does not overwrite the buffer.
.PP
Note that
.BR ap_error (3)
is set to
.BR AP_LOOK
in the event that a transfer is interrupted before all the data has been sent and received.  This
does no necessarily indicate an error condition; however, it indicates that an event is pending that
requires attention.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon completion, a pointer to the appropriate error message is returned.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Never fails.  No error conditions are reported by this function.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
The following example shows how
.BR ap_error ()
can be used to return an error message after calling an APLI function.
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#include <ap_lib.h>
#include <osi_lib.h>

int
InitApliEnv(int fd)
{
    if (ap_init_env(fd, NULL, 0) != SUCCESS) {
        printf("Error in ap_init_env %s \\n", ap_error());
        return (FAIL);
    }
    return (SUCCESS);
}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The OpenSS7 APLI Library implementation of
.BR ap_error ()
is thread-safe.  When generated dynamically, a thread-specific area is used to temporarily store the
message string.
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/oopi ", " /dev/streams/clone/oopi
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ap_error ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ap_errno (3),
.BR APLI (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBLITY
.PP
.BR ap_error ()
is compatible with APLI,
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
and implementation based on APLI such as
.IR "Solaris\(rg SunLink OSI" ,
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
.IR "Solaris\(rg Solstice OSI" ,
.IR "HP OSI Transport Services/9000 (OTS/9000)" ,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
.IR "SVR 4.2 Open Network Services (ONS)" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR APLI (3)
and
.BR STREAMS (4)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
APLI.
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_error ()
first appeared in APLI.
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 APLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T2


