'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: apli_init_env.3.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-29 00:01:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:01:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: apli_init_env.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-29 00:01:54  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:22  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:13  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_INIT_ENV 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ap_init_env
\- initialize APLI environment attributes.
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface (APLI).
.[
APLI UNIX International
.]
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ap_lib.h>
.br
.B #include <osi_lib.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_init_env(
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI "int " fd ,
.HP
.BI "const char *" env_file ,
.HP
.BI "int " flags
.RE
.HP
.BI );
.PD
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
.TP
.I env_file
.TP
.I flags
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function initializes the APLI environment for the service provider identified by the file
descriptor,
.IR fd .
The argument,
.IR flags ,
is unused and the pointer,
.IR env_file ,
is ignored by the SunLink implementation of APLI.  The
.I env_file
elements are always set to their default valuues unless chaged dynamically using the function
.BR ap_set_env (3).
.PP
This function must be called to initialize each APLI instance created by calling the
.BR ap_open (3)
function, that returns the file descriptor,
.IR fd .
Calling
.BR ap_init_env ()
allocates memory for the environment attributes and sets the environment attributes to their default
values.
.PP
See
.BR ap_env (3)
for a detailed descriptoin of the APLI environment including the default values allocated to each
attribute.
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of zero (0) is returned.  Otherwise, a value of minus one (-1)
is returned and
.BR ap_errno (3)
is set to indicate the error.  The corresponding error message is returned by calling the
.BR ap_error (3)
function.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADF ]
\- not a presentation service endpoint.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOATTR ]
\- no such attribute.
.TP
.RB [ AP_ACCES ]
\- request to bind to specified address denied.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOWRITE ]
\- attribute is not writable.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOMEM ]
\- could not allocate enough memory.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example shows how
.BR ap_init_env ()
can be used to intialize the environment of an APLI instance identified by the file descriptor,
.IR fd .
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#include <ap_lib.h>
#include <osi_lib.h>

int
InitApliEnv(int fd)
{
    if (ap_init_env(fd, NULL, 0) != SUCCESS) {
        printf("Error in ap_init_env %s \\n", ap_error());
        return (FAIL);
    }
    return (SUCCESS);
}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/oopi ", " /dev/streams/clone/oopi
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ap_init_env ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ap_set_env (3),
.BR ap_get_env (3),
.BR APLI (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBLITY
.PP
.BR ap_init_env ()
is compatible with APLI,
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
and implementation based on APLI such as
.IR "Solaris\(rg SunLink OSI" ,
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
.IR "Solaris\(rg Solstice OSI" ,
.IR "HP OSI Transport Services/9000 (OTS/9000)" ,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
.IR "SVR 4.2 Open Network Services (ONS)" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Neither
.IR Solaris \(rg
not
.IR HP-UX \(rg
support the
.I env_file
argument.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
ignores the
.I flags
argument.
.PP
See
.BR APLI (3)
and
.BR STREAMS (4)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
APLI.
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_init_env ()
first appeared in APLI.
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 APLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T2
