'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: apli_env.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/11/06 11:43:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/06 11:43:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: apli_env.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:13  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_ENV 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ap_env
\- APLI environment attributes.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface (APLI).
.[
APLI UNIX International
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ap_lib.h>
.br
.B #include <osi_lib.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
THe APLI environment is made up of a set of attributes that are used to keep state information and
to hold the various pieces of data required to establish and maintain an association with another
application entity.  This manual page describes the environment attributes that are supported by the
OpenSS7 APLI Library.
.PP
The current value assigned to a given attribute is returned by calling the function,
.BR ap_get_env (3);
the value assigned to a given attribute is modified by calling the function,
.BR ap_set_env (3).
All of the attributes in the environment can be save to a file with by calling the function,
.BR ap_save (3);
and attribtues can be read from a file with the
.BR ap_init_env (3)
and
.BR ap_restore (3)
functions.
.PP
Most of the APLI attributes have defualt values which are set when the APLI instance is intialized
by calling the function
.BR ap_init_env (3)
(with no
.IR env_file )
and in many cases these default values will be sufficient to allow a service user to access ACSE and
presentation layer services.  However, there are a minimum number of environment attributes that
must be modified before an association can be established.
.PP
Before initiating an association request, the service user must ensure that the following
environment attributes are set correctly:
.PP
.BR AP_BIND_PADDR ", " AP_CNTX_NAME ", " AP_REM_PADDR ", " AP_LIB_SEL .
.PP
Before responding to an association request, the service user must ensure that the following
environment attributes are set correctly:
.PP
.BR AP_BIND_PADDR ", " AP_LIB_SEL .
.PP
Note that there are no default values for
.BR AP_BIND_PADDR " and " AP_REM_PADDR .
.\"
.SS ATTRIBUTES
.PP
The environment variables supported by the OpenSS7 APLI Library implementation of APLI are as
follows:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lblbw(5.5i)
lbl.
Attribute:Description
_
AP_ACSE_AVAIL:T{
Indicates the available versions of the ACSE protocol.
T}
AP_ACSE_SEL:T{
Indicates the selected version of the ACSE protocol.
T}
AP_BIND_PADDR:T{
Binds the local presentation address to an APLI instance.
T}
AP_CLD_AEID:T{
Conveys the called \fIAE-invocation-id\fP of the AARQ APDU.
T}
AP_CLD_AEQ:T{
Conveys the called \fIAE-qualifier\fP of the AARQ APDU.
T}
AP_CLD_APID:T{
Conveys the called \fIAP-invocation-id\fP of the AARQ APDU.
T}
AP_CLD_APT:T{
Conveys the called \fIAP-title\fP of the AARQ APDU.
T}
AP_CLD_CONN_ID:T{
Conveys the \fIsession-connection-id\fP proposed by the responder.
T}
AP_CLG_AEID:T{
Conveys the calling \fIAE-invocation-id\fP of the AARQ APDU.
T}
AP_CLG_AEQ:T{
Conveys the calling \fIAE-qualifier\fP of the AARQ APDU.
T}
AP_CLG_APID:T{
Conveys the calling \fIAP-invocation-id\fP of the AARQ APDU.
T}
AP_CLG_APT:T{
Conveys the calling \fIAP-title\fP of the AARQ APDU.
T}
AP_CLG_CONN_ID:T{
Conveys the \fIsession-connection-id\fP proposed by the initiator.
T}
AP_CNTX_NAME:T{
Conveys the \fIapplication-contex-name\fP of AARQ and AARE APDUs.
T}
AP_DCS:T{
Specifies the \fIdefined-context-set\fP of abstract/transfer syntaxes.
T}
AP_DCN:T{
Indicates the \fIdefault-context-name\fP of the CP PPDU.
T}
AP_DPCR:T{
Indicates the \fIdefulat-context-result\fP of the CPR PPDU.
T}
AP_STREAM_FLAGS:T{
Indicates the execution mode of the APLI instance.
T}
AP_INIT_SYNC_PT:T{
Conveys the initial session synchronization point serial number.
T}
AP_LCL_PADDR:T{
Indicates the local presentation address.
T}
AP_LIB_AVAIL:T{
Indicates the available vesion of the APLI libraries.
T}
AP_LIB_SEL:T{
Indicates the selected version of the APLI libraries.
T}
AP_MODE_AVAIL:T{
INdicates the avialable modes of operation.
T}
AP_MODE_SEL:T{
INdicates the selected mode of operation.
T}
AP_MSTATE:T{
Indicates what data is pending.
T}
AP_PCDL:T{
Lists the \fIpresentation-contexts\fP proposed by the initiator.
T}
AP_PCDRL:T{
Lists the \fIpresentation-contexts\fP accepted or rejected by the responder.
T}
AP_PFU_AVAIL:T{
Indicates which \fIpresentation-functional-units\fP are available.
T}
AP_PFU_SEL:T{
Indicates which \fIpresentation-functional-units\fP are selected.
T}
AP_PRES_AVAIL:T{
Indicates the available versions of the presentation layer.
T}
AP_PRES_SEL:T{
Indicates the selected version of the presentation layer protocol.
T}
AP_REM_PADDR:T{
Indicates the remote presentation address.
T}
AP_ROLE_ALLOWED:T{
Indicates if the APLI instance can act as an initiator or responder.
T}
AP_ROLE_CURRENT:T{
Indicates if the APLI instance is acting as an initiator or responder.
T}
AP_RSP_AEID:T{
Conveys the responding \fIAE-invocation-id\fP of the AARQ APDU.
T}
AP_RSP_AEQ:T{
Conveys the responding \fIAE-qualifier\fP of the AARQ APDU.
T}
AP_RSP_APID:T{
Conveys the responding \fIAP-invocation-id\fP of the AARQ APDU.
T}
AP_RSP_APT:T{
Conveys the responding \fIAP-title\fP of the AARQ APDU.
T}
AP_SESS_AVAIL:T{
Indicates the available versions of the session layer protocol.
T}
AP_SESS_SEL:T{
Indicates the selected the session layer protocol.
T}
AP_SESS_OPT_AVAIL:T{
Indicates which optional session capabilities are available.
T}
AP_SFU_AVAIL:T{
Indicates which optional \fIsession-functional-units\fP are available.
T}
AP_SFU_SEL:T{
Indicates which optional \fIsession-functional-units\fP are selected.
T}
AP_STATE:T{
Indicates the current state of the APLI instance.
T}
AP_TOKENS_AVAIL:T{
Indicates which tokens are available for assignment.
T}
AP_TOKENS_OWNED:T{
Indicates tokens currently assigned to the service user.
T}
_
.TE

.SS AP_ACSE_AVAIL
.PP
Indicates the available versions of the ACSE protocol.  For the OpenSS7 APLI Library implementation
of APLI, this attribute always has the
.BR AP_ASCEVER1
bit set.
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:;unsigned long
Values:;AP_ACSERVER1 (default)
Readable:;always
Writable:;never
_
.TE
.SS AP_ACSE_SEL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_BIND_PADDR
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_CLD_AEID
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_CLD_AEQ
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_CLD_APID
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_CLD_APT
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_CLD_CONN_ID
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_CLG_AEID
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_CLG_AEQ
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_CLG_APID
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_CLG_APT
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_CLG_CONN_ID
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_CNTX_NAME
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_DCS
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_DCN
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_DPCR
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_STREAM_FLAGS
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_INIT_SYNC_PT
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_LCL_PADDR
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_LIB_AVAIL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_LIB_SEL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_MODE_AVAIL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_MODE_SEL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_MSTATE
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_PCDL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_PCDRL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_PFU_AVAIL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_PFU_SEL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_PRES_AVAIL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_PRES_SEL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_REM_PADDR
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_ROLE_ALLOWED
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_ROLE_CURRENT
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_RSP_AEID
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_RSP_AEQ
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_RSP_APID
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_RSP_APT
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_SESS_AVAIL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_SESS_SEL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_SESS_OPT_AVAIL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_SFU_AVAIL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_SFU_SEL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_STATE
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_TOKENS_AVAIL
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
.SS AP_TOKENS_OWNED
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(;);
lblw(5.5i).
_
Type:
Values:
Readable:
Writable:
_
.TE
