'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: apli.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/11/06 11:43:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/06 11:43:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: apli.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:13  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH APLI 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B APLI, apli
\- ACSE/Presentation Layer Interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ap_lib.h>
.br
.B #include <osi_lib.h>
.br
.B #include <ap_poll.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
.B APLI
is an ACSE/Presentation Layer Interface originally developed by UNIX Systems Laboratories and later
standardized by X/Open, IEEE and ISO.
The ACSE/Presentation Layer Interface (APLI) provides a standard interface between an application
entity (as defined by the OSI reference model) and the services provided by ACSE
.[
x217
.]
and the
Presentation Layer
.[
x216
.]
of the OSI protocol stack.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FUNCTIONS
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lblbw(4.0i)lb
lbllb.
Function:Description:Reference
_
ap_open\fR():T{
Open APLI instance.
T}:apli_open\fR(3)
ap_init_env\fR():T{
Initialize APLI environment.
T}:apli_init_env\fR(3)
ap_restore\fR():T{
Restore an APLI environment.
T}:apli_restore\fR(3)
ap_get_env\fR():T{
Get APLI environment attribute.
T}:apli_get_env\fR(3)
ap_set_env\fR():T{
Set APLI environment attribute.
T}:apli_set_env\fR(3)
ap_save\fR():T{
Save an APLI environment.
T}:apli_save\fR(3)
ap_snd\fR():T{
Send APLI service primitive.
T}:apli_snd\fR(3)
ap_rcv\fR():T{
Receive APLI service primitive.
T}:apli_rcv\fR(3)
ap_free\fR():T{
Free memory from APLI data structures.
T}:apli_free\fR(3)
ap_poll\fR():T{
Poll APLI resources.
T}:apli_poll\fR(3)
ap_error\fR():T{
Return an error message.
T}:apli_error\fR(3)
ap_close\fR():T{
Close APLI instance.
T}:apli_close\fR(3)
_
.TE
.TP
.BR ap_open "(3), " ap_close (3)
\- functions used to establish and release APLI instances
.TP
.BR ap_init_env "(3), " ap_set_env "(3), " ap_get_env (3)
\- function used to manage the APLI environment.
.TP
.BR ap_snd "(3), " ap_rcv (3)
\- functions used to send or receive APLI primitives.
.TP
.BR ap_free (3)
\- functions used to manage memory allocated to the APLI environment.
.TP
.BR ap_poll (3)
\- function use to retrieve status information.
.TP
.BR ap_error (3)
\- function use to retrieve error messages corresponding to specific error return codes.
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
Each APLI service primitive corresponds to an ACSE
.[
x217
.]
or Presentation Layer
.[
x216
.]
service.  Primitives that correspond to an ACSE service are prefixed with '\fBA_\fP' and primitives
that correspond to presentation layer services are prefixed with '\fBP_\fP'.  With the exception of
\fIuser data\fP, the parameters passed to the service provider by APLI when sending a particular
primitive are deerived from attributes held in the APLI environment and from \fIprotocol
information\fP passed to APLI by the service user.  Protocol information allows the service user to
pass parameters specific to each primitive and to override some of the values held in the
environment.
.PP
When receiving primitives from the service provider, APLI updates the values fo some environment
attributes and passes specific parameters to the service user along with the primitive itself.
.PP
The service primitives supported by APLI are as follows:
.TP
.BR A_ASSOC_REQ "(7), " A_ASSOC_IND "(7), " A_ASSOC_RSP "(7), " A_ASSOC_CNF (7)
\- primtives used to establish an association (A-ASSOCIATE).
.TP
.BR A_RELEASE_REQ "(7), " A_RELEASE_IND "(7), " A_RELEASE_RSP "(7), " A_RELEASE_CNF (7)
\- primitives used to release an association (A-RELEASE).
.TP
.BR A_ABORT_REQ "(7), " A_ABORT_IND (7)
\- primitives used to abrot an association (A-ABORT).
.TP
.BR A_PABORT_REQ "(7), " A_PABORT_IND (7)
\- primtiives used to provider abort the association (A-P-ABORT).
.TP
.BR P_DATA_REQ "(7), " P_DATA_IND (7)
\- primitives used to transfer user data.
.TP
.BR P_TOKENGIVE_REQ "(7), " P_TOKENGIVE_IND (7)
\- primitives used to release tokens (P-TOKEN-GIVE).
.TP
.BR P_TOKENPLEASE_REQ "(7), " P_TOKEPLEASE_IND (7)
\- primitives used to acquire tokens (P-TOKEN-PLEASE).
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
The APLI environment stores all of the information necessary to establish and maintain an
association with another application entity in the form of \fIattribtutes\fP.  APLI environment
attribtues are divided into two types:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
\fIRead-only\fP attribtues store information that reflect the current status of the association, OSI
protocol stack, or APLI instance.
.IP \(bu
\fIRead-write\fP attribtues can be modified by the service user and are used to specify the
characteristics of an association or the APLI instance.
.PP
Certain attributes are only accessible (for either reading or writing) when the APLI instance is in
a given state.  The current state of the APLI instance is returned in the attribute \fBAP_STATE\fP.
.PP
The attributes supported by the OpenSS7 APLI Library are as follows:
.TP \w'\fBAP_INIT_SYNC_PT\fP\(em'u
.B AP_ACSE_AVAIL
\- available ACSE protocol versions.
.PD 0
.TP
.B AP_ACSE_SEL
\- selected ACSE protocol versions.
.TP
.B AP_BIND_PADDR
\- bind Presentation Address.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_AEID
\- called AE-invocation-identifier.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_AEQ
\- called AE-qualifier.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_APID
\- called AP-invocation-identifier.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_APT
\- called AP-title.
.TP
.B AP_CLD_CONN_ID
\- called Session connection identifier.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_AEID
\- calling AE-invocation-identifier.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_AEQ
\- calling AE-qualifier.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_APID
\- calling AP-invocation-identifier.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_APT
\- calling AP-title.
.TP
.B AP_CLG_CONN_ID
\- calling Session connection identifier.
.TP
.B AP_CNTX_NAME
\- Application/ASO-context-name.
.TP
.B AP_DCS
\- Defined-context-set.
.TP
.B AP_DPCN
\- Default-context-name.
.TP
.B AP_DPCR
\- Default-context-result.
.TP
.B AP_INIT_SYNC_PT
\- Session initial synchronization point.
.TP
.B AP_LCL_PADDR
\- local presentation address.
.TP
.B AP_LIB_AVAIL
\- available library versions.
.TP
.B AP_LIB_SEL
\- selected library versions.
.TP
.B AP_MODE_AVAIL
\- available modes.
.TP
.B AP_MODE_SEL
\- selected mode.
.TP
.B AP_MSTATE
\- segmentation state.
.TP
.B AP_PCDL
\- Presentation-context-definition list.
.TP
.B AP_PCDRL
\- Presentation-context-definition-result list.
.TP
.B AP_PFU_AVAIL
\- available Presentation layer functional units.
.TP
.B AP_PFU_SEL
\- selected Prestnation layer functional units.
.TP
.B AP_PRES_AVAIL
\- available Presentation layer protocol versions.
.TP
.B AP_PRES_SEL
\- selected Presentation layer protocol versions.
.TP
.B AP_REM_PADDR
\- remote Presentation address.
.TP
.B AP_ROLE_ALLOWED
\- allowed initiator or responder roles.
.TP
.B AP_ROLE_CURRENT
\- current intiiator or responder role.
.TP
.B AP_RSP_AEID
\- responding AE-invocation-identifier.
.TP
.B AP_RSP_APID
\- responding AP-invocation-identifier.
.TP
.B AP_SESS_AVAIL
\- available Session layer protocol versions.
.TP
.B AP_SESS_SEL
\- selected Session layer protocol versions.
.TP
.B AP_SFU_AVAIL
\- available Session layer functional units.
.TP
.B AP_SFU_SEL
\- selected Session layer functional units.
.TP
.B AP_STATE
\- APLI instance state.
.TP
.B AP_STREAM_FLAGS
\- device Stream delay flag.
.TP
.B AP_TOKENS_AVAIL
\- Session tokens available.
.TP
.B AP_TOKENS_OWNED
\- Session tokens held.
.PD
.PP
See
.BR ap_env (3)
and
.BR ap_env_file (5)
for more information on environment attributes.
.\"
.\"
.SH STRUCTURES
.PP
.TP
.BR ap_cdata_t (5)
.TP
.BR ap_cdl_t (5)
.TP
.BR ap_cdrl_t (5)
.TP
.BR ap_conn_id_t (5)
.TP
.BR ap_dcn_t (5)
.TP
.BR ap_dcs_t (5)
.TP
.BR ap_paddr_t (5)
.TP
.BR any_t (5)
.TP
.BR objid_t (5)
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
OpenSS7 implements both the older-style APLI Library and the newer XAP Library.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The OpenSS7 APLI Library has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
Note that
.IR "Solaris\(rg SunLink" ,
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
.IR "Solaris\(rg Solstice" ,
and
.IR "HP-UX\(rg OTS/9000"
do not support the
.BR ap_save ()
and
.BR ap_restore ()
functions.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The APLI interface was developed by UNIX Systems Laboratories and later standardized by the
OpenGroup (then X/Open), the IEEE and ISO as the X/Open ACSE/Presentation API (XAP).
.[
XAP ACSE C303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 APLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T2
