'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: apli_errno.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/11/06 11:43:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/06 11:43:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: apli_errno.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:13  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_ERRNO 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ap_errno
\- APLI error codes.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface (APLI).
.[
APLI UNIX International
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ap_lib.h>
.br
.B #include <osi_lib.h>
.HP
.B int ap_errno;
.PP
.nf
\fB#define AP_NOERROR            \fP0 /* no error */
\fB#define AP_ACCES              \fP1 /* request to bind to specified address denied */
\fB#define AP_AGAIN              \fP2 /* request not completed */
\fB#define AP_BADATTRVAL         \fP3 /* bad value for environment attribute */
\fB#define AP_BADCD_ACT_ID       \fP4 /* cdata field value invalid: act_id */
\fB#define AP_BADCD_DIAG         \fP5 /* cdata filed value invalid: diag */
\fB#define AP_BADCD_EVT          \fP6 /* cdata field value invalid: event */
\fB#define AP_BADCD_OLD_ACT_ID   \fP7 /* cdata field value invalid: old_act_id */
\fB#define AP_BADCD_OLD_CONN_ID  \fP8 /* cdata field value invalid: old_conn_id */
\fB#define AP_BADCD_PABORT_IND   \fP9 /* cdata field value invalid: pabort_ind */
\fB#define AP_BADCD_RES         \fP10 /* cdata field value invalid: res */
\fB#define AP_BADCD_RES_SRC     \fP11 /* cdata field value invalid: res_src */
\fB#define AP_BADCD_RESYNC_TYPE \fP12 /* cdata field value invalid: resync_type */
\fB#define AP_BADCD_RSN         \fP13 /* cdata field value invalid: rsn */
\fB#define AP_BADCD_SRC         \fP14 /* cdata field value invalid: src */
\fB#define AP_BADCD_SYNC_P_SN   \fP15 /* cdata field value invalid: sync_p_sn */
\fB#define AP_BADCD_SYNC_TYPE   \fP16 /* cdata field value invalid: sync_type */
\fB#define AP_BADCD_TOKENS      \fP17 /* cdata field value invalid: tokens */
\fB#define AP_BADENC            \fP18 /* bad encoding chosen in enveloping function */
\fB#define AP_BADENV            \fP19 /* a mandatory attribute is not set */
\fB#define AP_BADF              \fP20 /* not a presentation service endpoint */
\fB#define AP_BADFLAGS          \fP21 /* combination of flags is invalid */
\fB#define AP_BADFREE           \fP22 /* could not free structure members */
\fB#define AP_BADKIND           \fP23 /* unknown structure type */
\fB#define AP_BADLSTATE         \fP24 /* instance in bad state for that command */
\fB#define AP_BADPARSE          \fP25 /* attribute parse failed */
\fB#define AP_BADPRIM           \fP26 /* unrecognized primitive from user */
\fB#define AP_BADRESTR          \fP27 /* not restored due to more bin on (AP_MORE set) */
\fB#define AP_BADROLE           \fP28 /* request invalid due to value of AP_ROLE */
\fB#define AP_BADSAVE           \fP29 /* not saved due to more bit on (AP_MORE bit) */
\fB#define AP_BADSAVEF          \fP30 /* invalid FILE pointer */
\fB#define AP_BADUBUF           \fP31 /* bad length for user data */
\fB#define AP_HANGUP            \fP32 /* association closed or aborted */
\fB#define AP_INTERNAL          \fP33 /* internal error */
\fB#define AP_LOOK              \fP34 /* a pending event requires attention */
\fB#define AP_NOATTR            \fP35 /* no such attribute */
\fB#define AP_NOENV             \fP36 /* no environment for that \fIfd\fP */
\fB#define AP_NOMEM             \fP37 /* could not allocate enough memory */
\fB#define AP_NOREAD            \fP38 /* attribute is not reabable */
\fB#define AP_NOSET             \fP39 /* attribute is not setable */
\fB#define AP_NOWRITE           \fP40 /* attribute is not writable */
\fB#define AP_PDUREJ            \fP41 /* invalid PDU rejected */
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Provides a global error number into which error codes are returned when APLI API functions fail.
.PP
.TP
.B AP_NOERROR\ -
No error is indicated in the
.B ap_errno
variable.  The last operation was a success.
.B ap_errno
will not be set to this value (zero) by the library, the user must set
.B ap_errno
to zero before the APLI library call and when the call is successful, the
.B ap_errno
value will be unaffected.  There is no requirement that this value be set after a successful call,
and calls are event permitted to change
.B ap_errno
to some other value, when the call is actually successful.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_ACT_ID\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIact_id\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_DIAG\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIdiag\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_EVT\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIevt\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_OLD_ACT_ID\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIold_act_id\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_OLD_CONN_ID\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIold_conn_id\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_PABORT_IND\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIpabort_ind\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_RES\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIres\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_RES_SRC\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIres_src\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_RESYNC_TYPE\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIresync_type\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_RSN\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIrsn\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_SRC\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIsrc\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_SYNC_P_SN\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIsync_p_sn\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_SYNC_TYPE\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fIsync_type\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADCD_TOKENS\ -
Roughly equivalent to UNIX system error EINVAL. The member, \fItokens\fP, of the \fIcdata\fP
(\fBap_cdata_t\fP) structure passed to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function contained a value that was not
valid in the current state or context.
.TP
.B AP_BADENC\ -
When the user passes data to the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function, it must be encoded in the appropriate
encoding for the abstract/transfer syntax negotiated for the presentation layer.  The
\fBap_snd\fP(3) function has determined that the choice of encoding for the envelope of the user
data was incorrect.
.TP
.B AP_BADENV\ -
A mandatory ALPI environment attribute, settable with the \fBap_set_env\fP(3) and gettable with the
\fBap_get_env\fP(3) functions, was not set at the time of the call to \fBap_snd\fP(3), but the
service primitive invoked by the function requires that the attribute be set by the caller to a
specific value.  Therefore, the call to \fBap_snd\fP(3) has failed because a mandatory attribute is
not set.
.TP
.B AP_BADF\ -
Most APLI library functions have a file descriptor, \fIfd\fP, passed as the first argument of the
function.  This file descriptor is both a handle to the APLI instance that the user wishes to
control as well as being a character special file, pipe or named FIFO, representing a presentation
service provider.  The APLI library tracks which of the process' file descriptors are associated
with presentation service providers, and thus represent APLI instances.  Those that do not, such as
standard input, standard output or standard error, cannot have their file descriptors passed to APLI
library functions without generating this error.  This error indicates that the passed in file
descriptor, \fIfd\fP, did not correspond to a presentation service endpoint, and so does not
correspond to an APLI instances and therefore cannot be acted upon by the APLI library function.
.TP
.B AP_BADFLAGS\ -
For some combinations of flags passed to APLI library functions as arguments, the combinations do
not follow a strict choice of unrestricted logical OR combination.  Some flag combinations are not
permitted or are invalid or are unspecified or unsupported.  This error indicates that a combination
of flags passed by the user was invalid per the specification of the flags.
.TP
.B AP_BADFREE\ -
When the \fBap_free\fP(3) function is called, it attempts to free, using the \fBfree\fP(3) C library
call, all of the allocated structures internal to the passed in structure pointer.  The only
internal structures that may be freed with \fBap_free\fP(3) are the structures that were allocated
by the APLI library and passed to the user in response to a command.  As such, when these same
internal structures are passed to the \fBap_free\fP(3) function, the APLI library may be able to
verify whether the structures were indeed allocated by the library.  If this can be detected and it
is determined that an internal structure was not allocated by the APLI library, the \fBap_free\fP(3)
function will not free the structure with the \fBfree\fP(3) C library call, and will, instead,
return this error indicating that it could not free structure members.
.TP
.B AP_BADKIND\ -
The \fBap_free\fP(3) function is called with a \fIkind\fP argument that indicates to which type of
structure the call applies.  The value of this argument may correspond to a struct type (in all
capitals) symbolic constant, or a service primitive type symbolic constant, or an environment
attribute symbolic constant.  When the \fIkind\fP argument value passed does not correspond to any
of these symbolic constants, then the structure type is unknown and this error generated.
.TP
.B AP_BADPRIM\ -
When calling the \fBap_snd\fP(3) function, an \fIsptype\fP argument is passed which specifies the
\*(lqService Primitive TYPE\*(rq for the call.  The service primitive type identifies the protocol
service primitive to be passed to the presentation service provider.  When this error is generated,
it means that the user has passed a service primitive type, sptype, does not correspond to a
symbolic constant know to the APLI library.
.TP
.B AP_BADRESTR\ -
The \fBap_restore\fP(3) function can be used to set APLI environment attributes associated with an
APLI instance.  When data is sent in multiple segments, the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit is used in the flags
argument to \fBap_snd\fP(3) for all calls except the last.  Attributes are not permitted to change
after calls to \fBap_snd\fP(3) in which the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit has been set, until a call to
\fBap_snd\fP(3) has been made with the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit clear.  This error indicates that
\fBap_restore\fP(3) was called while the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit was set (i.e. a call has been made to
\fBap_snd\fP(3) with the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit set in the flags argument and no subsequent call to
\fBap_snd\fP(3) without the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit set has been sent).
.TP
.B AP_BADROLE\ -
The APLI library user has attempted to call a function, typically \fBap_snd\fP(3) for an environment
attribute or service primitive type which is not applicable to the roles (intiiator or responder)
for which the APLI instance is allowed (as per environment attribute \fBROLE_ALLOWED\fP).
.TP
.B AP_BADSAVE -
The \fBap_save\fP(3) function can be used to store APLI environment attribtues associated with an
APLI instance in a file.  When data is sent in multiple segments, the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit is used in
the flags argument to \fBap_snd\fP(3) for all calls except the last.  Attributes are not permitted
to change after calls to \fBap_snd\fP(3) in which the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit has been set, untila call to
\fBap_snd\fP(3) has been made with the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit clear.  The \fBAP_MORE\fP bit is set in the
environment during this period.  Because an attribute value including the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit should
not be saved, the \fBap_save\fP(3) function will fail while the \fBAP_MORE\fP bit is set, with this
error code.
.TP
.B AP_BADSAVEF\ -
The FILE pointer argument, savef, passed to \fBap_save\fP(3) and \fBap_restore\fP(3) is not a valid
file pointer.  It may be NULL or does not represent a valid file stream open for writing.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
The value of
.B ap_errno
is set each time that an APLI API function fails and returns minus one (-1).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP \w'[\fBAP_BADCD_RESYNC_TYPE\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ AP_ACCES ]
\- request to bind to specified address denied
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ AP_AGAIN ]
\- request not completed
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADATTRVAL ]
\- bad value for environment attribute
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_ACT_ID ]
\- cdata field value invalid: act_id
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_DIAG ]
\- cdata filed value invalid: diag
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_EVT ]
\- cdata field value invalid: event
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_OLD_ACT_ID ]
\- cdata field value invalid: old_act_id
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_OLD_CONN_ID ]
\- cdata field value invalid: old_conn_id
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_PABORT_IND ]
\- cdata field value invalid: pabort_ind
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_RES ]
\- cdata field value invalid: res
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_RES_SRC ]
\- cdata field value invalid: res_src
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_RESYNC_TYPE ]
\- cdata field value invalid: resync_type
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_RSN ]
\- cdata field value invalid: rsn
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_SRC ]
\- cdata field value invalid: src
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_SYNC_P_SN ]
\- cdata field value invalid: sync_p_sn
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_SYNC_TYPE ]
\- cdata field value invalid: sync_type
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADCD_TOKENS ]
\- cdata field value invalid: tokens
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADENC ]
\- bad encoding chosen in enveloping function
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADENV ]
\- a mandatory attribute is not set
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADF ]
\- not a presentation service endpoint
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADFLAGS ]
\- combination of flags is invalid
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADFREE ]
\- could not free structure members
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADKIND ]
\- unknown structure type
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADLSTATE ]
\- instance in bad state for that command
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADPARSE ]
\- attribute parse failed
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADPRIM ]
\- unrecognized primitive from user
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADRESTR ]
\- not restored due to more bin on (AP_MORE set)
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADROLE ]
\- request invalid due to value of AP_ROLE
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADSAVE ]
\- not saved due to more bit on (AP_MORE bit)
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADSAVEF ]
\- invalid FILE pointer
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADUBUF ]
\- bad length for user data
.TP
.RB [ AP_HANGUP ]
\- association closed or aborted
.TP
.RB [ AP_INTERNAL ]
\- internal error
.TP
.RB [ AP_LOOK ]
\- a pending event requires attention
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOATTR ]
\- no such attribute
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOENV ]
\- no environment for that \fIfd\fP
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOERROR ]
\- no error
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOMEM ]
\- could not allocate enough memory
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOREAD ]
\- attribute is not reabable
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOSET ]
\- attribute is not setable
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOWRITE ]
\- attribute is not writable
.TP
.RB [ AP_PDUREJ ]
\- invalid PDU rejected
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The OpenSS7 APLI Library implementation of
.BR ap_errno ()
is thread-safe.  A thread-specific area is used to store the error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/oopi ", " /dev/streams/clone/oopi
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ap_errno
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ap_error (3),
.BR APLI (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBLITY
.PP
.BR ap_errno
is compatible with APLI,
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
and implementation based on APLI such as
.IR "Solaris\(rg SunLink OSI" ,
.IR "Solaris\(rg Solstice OSI" ,
.IR "HP OSI Transport Services/9000 (OTS/9000)" ,
.IR "SVR 4.2 Open Network Services (ONS)" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR APLI (3)
and
.BR STREAMS (4)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
APLI.
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_errno
first appeared in APLI.
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 APLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T2


