'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: apli_poll.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/11/10 19:40:49 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/10 19:40:49 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: apli_poll.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:49  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:13  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_POLL 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ap_poll
\- poll for the occurence of specified APLI events.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface (APLI).
.[
APLI UNIX International
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ap_lib.h>
.br
.B #include <osi_lib.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_poll(
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI "struct ap_pollfd *" fds ,
.HP
.BI "int " nfds ,
.HP
.BI "int " timeout
.RE
.HP
.BI );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fItimeout\fP\(em'u
.I fds
array of \fInfds\fP structures.
.PD 0
.TP
.I nfds
the size of the \fIfds\fP array.
.TP
.I timeout
delay before timeout.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function provides a consistent interface for detecting when certain events have occurred on an
APLI instance.  It is a macro for the UNIX system call
.BR poll (2).
.PP
The
.I fds
argument is an array of
.I nfds
.B ap_pollfd_t
structures defined as:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct pollfd {
    int fd;
    short events;
    short revents;
};

typedef struct pollfd ap_pollfd_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.sp
where the
.B pollfd
structure is defined in
.RB < sys/poll.h >.
.PP
One member,
.IR fd ,
should correspond to an APLI communication endpoint; however, any open file descriptor is accepted.
The
.I events
field is a bitmask used to indicate which events should be reported for the instance.  The
.I revents
field will be set by APLI to indicate which of the requested events have occurred:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lblbw(4.5i)
lbl.
Event Code:Description
_
AP_POLLIN:T{
Data has arrived (on either band) and is available to be read.
T}
AP_POLLOUT:T{
Data can be sent on the normal priority band.
T}
_
.TE
.sp
See
.BR poll (2s).
.PP
If none of the defined events have occurred on the selected instances,
.BR ap_poll ()
waits
.I timeout
milliseconds for an event to occur on one of the selected instances before returning.  If the value
of
.I timeout
is
.BR AP_INFTIM ,
.BR ap_poll ()
waits until a requested event occurs or until the call is interrupted.
.PP
The
.BR ap_poll ()
call is not affected by whether the APLI instance is operating in blocking or non-blocking execution
mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success, a non-negative value is returned that indicates the number of instances for which
.I revents
is non-zero.  A return value of zero (0)
indicates that the call timed out and no instances were selected.  Otherwise, a value of -1 is
returned and
.BR ap_errno (3)
is set to indicate the error.  The corresponding error message is returned by calling
.BR ap_error (3)
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Only operating system errors may be reported.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
The following example shows how
.BR ap_poll ()
can be used to wait for the occurrence of a certain event.
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct pollfd poll_fd;
int timeout;

poll_fd.fd = fd;
poll_fd.events = POLLIN;
while ((rc = ap_poll(&poll_fd, 1, timeout)) > 0) {

    /* do something */

}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/oopi ", " /dev/streams/clone/oopi
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ap_poll ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR poll (2s),
.BR APLI (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBLITY
.PP
.BR ap_poll ()
is compatible with APLI,
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
and implementation based on APLI such as
.IR "Solaris\(rg SunLink OSI" ,
.IR "Solaris\(rg Solstice OSI" ,
.IR "HP OSI Transport Services/9000 (OTS/9000)" ,
.IR "SVR 4.2 Open Network Services (ONS)" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The OpenSS7 implementation of the APLI library function,
.BR ap_poll (),
supports all of the flags supported by
.BR poll (2s)
and defined in
.RB < sys/poll.h >.
Portable programs will use only the defined
.BR AP_POLLIN
and
.BR AP_POLLOUT
functions.
.IP \(em
Only source compatibility is attempted:
binary compatibility is not guaranteed and would only occur by hapless coincidence.
.IP \(em
The
.BR APLI (3)
is deprecated and is only provided for backward compatibility.  New programs should use the standard
.BR XAP (3)
implemetnation of the X/Open ACSE/Presentation Library instead.
.PP
See
.BR APLI (3)
and
.BR STREAMS (4)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
APLI.
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_poll ()
first appeared in APLI.
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
Note that the
.BR ap_poll ()
function also appears in the X/Open XAP.
.[
xap c303
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 APLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T2


