'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: apli_set_env.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-16 17:34:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-16 17:34:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: apli_set_env.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:22  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:14  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AP_SET_ENV 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ap_set_env
\- set APLI environment variable.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
ACSE/Presentation Library Interface (APLI).
.[
APLI UNIX International
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ap_lib.h>
.br
.B #include <osi_lib.h>
.HP
.BI "int ap_set_env(
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI "int " fd ,
.HP
.BI "unsigned long " attr ,
.HP
.BI "ap_val_t " val
.RE
.HP
.BI );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
.TP
.I attr
.TP
.I val
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function sets or resets the value of the environment attribute,
.IR attr ,
for the service provider identified by the file descriptor,
.IR fd .
Valid attribute names are listed in
.BR ap_env (3).
.PP
The
.I val
argument is a union that is used to pass the value that is to be assigned to the specified
attribute.  The
.I val
union is defined as:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef union {
    long l;
    void *v;
} ap_val_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
In all cases,
.I val
must be of the same type as the attribute to be modified.
.PP
For example, if the value of the attribute that is to modified is an integer or bit mask, the
.I l
member of the
.B ap_val_t
union must contain a
.B long
or
.BR "unsigned long" .
Otherise, the
.I v
member of the
.B ap_val_t
union must contain a pointer to a structure of the same type as the specified attribute.
.PP
Refer to
.BR ap_env (3)
for a detailed description of the attribute types.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon successful completion, a value of zero (0) is returned; otherwise, minus one (-1) is returned
and
.BR ap_errno (3)
is set to indicate the error.  The corresponding error message is returned by calling the
.BR ap_error (3)
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
.RB [ AP_BADATTRVAL ]
\- bad value for environment attribute.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOATTR ]
\- no such attribute.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOENV ]
\- no environment for that \fIfd\fP.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOMEM ]
\- could not allocate enough memory.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOWRITE ]
\- attribute is not writable.
.TP
.RB [ AP_HANGUP ]
\- association closed or aborted.
.TP
.RB [ AP_ACCES ]
\- request to bind to specified address denied.
.PP
Also, operating system class errors may be reported.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
The following example shows how
.BR ap_set_env ()
can be used to set the
.B AP_INITIATOR
bit of the
.BR AP_ROLE_ALLOWED
attribute.
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#include <ap_lib.h>
#include <osi_lib.h>

int
SetApIRole(int fd)
{
    ap_val_t val;

    val.l = AP_INITIATOR;
    if ((ap_set_env(fd, AP_ROLE_ALLOWED, val))) {
        printf("Error in ap_set_env %s \\n", ap_error());
        return (FAIL);
    }
    return (SUCCESS);
}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/oopi ", " /dev/streams/clone/oopi
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ap_init_env (3),
.BR ap_save (3),
.BR ap_restore (3),
.BR ap_get_env (3),
.BR ap_env (3),
.BR APLI (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBLITY
.PP
.BR ap_set_env ()
is compatible with APLI,
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
and implementation based on APLI such as
.IR "Solaris\(rg SunLink OSI" ,
.[
sunlink-apli
.]
.IR "Solaris\(rg Solstice OSI" ,
.IR "HP OSI Transport Services/9000 (OTS/9000)" ,
.[
hpuxapli
.]
.IR "SVR 4.2 Open Network Services (ONS)" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.PP
See
.BR APLI (3)
and
.BR STREAMS (4)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
APLI.
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ap_set_env ()
first appeared in APLI.
.[
APLI UNIX International October 25, 1990
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 APLI Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.T2
