'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ds_add_entry.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/11/06 11:43:14 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/06 11:43:14 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ds_add_entry.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:14  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:30  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DS_ADD_ENTRY 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ds_add_entry
\- add a leaf entry to the directory information tree
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xds.h>
.HP
.BI "DS_status ds_add_entry(OM_private_object " session ", OM_private_object " context ", OM_object " name ", OM_object " entry ", OM_sint *" invoke_id_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Adds a leaf etnry to the directory.  The entry may be either an object or an alias.  The entry is
only added if it conforms to the directory schema.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.BR ds_add_entry ()
takes the following arguments:
.TP
.I session
.BR Session (Object(Session))
The directory session through which to submit the request.  This must be a private object.
.TP
.I context
.BR Context (Object(Context))
The directory user context to use for this operation.  Note that the
.B size-Limit
and
.B dont-Dereference-Aliases
do not apply to this operation.  This argument must be a private object or the constant
.BR DS_DEFAULT_CONTEXT .
.TP
.I name
.BR Name (Object(Name))
The name of the entry to be added.  The immediate superior of the new entry is determined by
removing the last RDN component (which belongs to the new entry).  The immediate superior should
exist in the same DSA, otherwise, the function may fail with an Update-Error
(affects-multiple-DSAs).  Any aliases in the name will
.I not
be dereferenced.
.TP
.I entry
.BR Entry (Object(Attribute-List))
The attribute information which, together with that from the RDN, constitutes the entry to be
created.  Note that an instance of OM class
.B Entry-Information
can be suppied as the value of this argument, since
.B Entry-Information
is a subclass of
.BR Attribute-List ,
and so can be used as the value of this argument.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.I invoke_id_return
.BR Invoke-ID (Integer)
The
.B Invoke-ID
of an asyncrhonous directory operation.  If the pointer,
.IR invoke_id_return ,
was passed as
.BR NULL ,
then the operation is a syncrhonous operation and will block pending a result.  When
.RB non- NULL ,
the operation is an asynchronous operation whose result can be retrieved with
.BR ds_receive_result (3)
or abandonned with
.BR ds_abandon (3).
.TP
.I retval
.BR Status (Status)
Whether the entry was added or not, if used synchronously, or whether the operation was initiated,
if used asyncrhonously. 
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a
.B System-Error
or on of the following
.B Librar-Errors:
bad-argument, bad-class, bad-context, bad-name, bad-session, bad-workspace, miscellaneous,
missing-type, too-many-operations.
.PP
The following
.B Directory-Errors
may be returned by the function (or by
.BR ds_receive_result (3))
when used asynchronously); Attribute-Error, Name-Error, Security-Error, Service-Error, Update-Error.
.PP
The Update-Error (affects-multiple-DSAs), which is referred to in the argument descriptions, need
not be returned if there is local agreement between the DSAs to allow the entry to be added.
.PP
This function can return a Communications-Error.
.PP
This function can return the error constant
.RB [ DS_NO_WORKSPACE ],
.RB [ DS_INVALID_WORKSPACE ]
or
.RB [ DS_SUCCESS ].
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR ds_add_entry ()
is implemented on top of the more complicated OSMIS 3.0 interface.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ds_add_entry ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XDS (3),
.BR XOM (3),
.BR ds_abandon (3),
.\".BR ds_add_entry (3),
.\".BR ds_bind (3),
.\".BR ds_compare (3),
.\".BR ds_initialize (3),
.\".BR ds_list (3),
.\".BR ds_modify_entry (3),
.\".BR ds_modify_rdn (3),
.\".BR ds_read (3),
.BR ds_receive_result (3).
.\".BR ds_remove_entry (3),
.\".BR ds_search (3).
.\".BR ds_shutdown (3),
.\".BR ds_unbind (3),
.\".BR ds_version (3),
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xds (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ds_add_entry ()
was first part of the
.BR XDS .
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
