'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ds_abandon.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/11/06 11:43:14 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/06 11:43:14 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ds_abandon.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:14  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:30  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DS_ABANDON 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ds_abandon
\- abandon the result of a pending, asynchronously-executing operation
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xds.h>
.HP
.BI "DS_status ds_abandon(OM_private_object " session ", OM_sint " invoke_id );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XDS
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function abandons the result of an outstanding asyncrhonous function
call.  The function is no longer outstanding after this function returns, and
the result will never be returned by
.BR ds_receive_result (3).
.PP
Note that this function may, but need not, cause an \*(lqAbandon\*(rq
operation to be requested of the directory.  Such an \*(lqAbandon\*(rq
operation may, but need not, cause the directory to abandon the outstanding
asynchronous operation itself.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.BR ds_abandon ()
takes the following arguments:
.TP
.IR session "\0\fBSession\fP(Object(Session))
The directory session in which the operation was submitted to the directory.
This must be a private object, see
.BR XOM (3).
.TP
.IR invoke_id "\0\fBInvoke-ID\fP(Integer)
Selects the specific outstanding asyncrhonous operation submitted via the
.B Session
to be terminated.  The operation must be interrogation (that is,
.BR ds_compare "(3), " ds_list "(3), " ds_read "(3) or " ds_search (3)).
The value of
.B Invoke-ID
must be that which was returned by the function call
that initiated the asyncrhonous directory operation to be abandonned.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.BR Status "(Status)
Whether the function succeeded or not.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a System-Error or one of the following
Library-Errors: bad-session, miscellaneous.
.PP
This function can return a Communications-Error or the following
Directory-error: Abandon-Failed.  Note that the result of the asyncrhonous
operation will not be returned even if an Abandon-Failed error is returned.
.PP
This function can return the error constant
.RB [ DS_NO_WORKSPACE ],
.RB [ DS_INVALID_WORKSPACE ]
or
.RB [ DS_SUCCESS ].
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR ds_abandon ()
is implemented on top of the more complicated OSMIS 3.0 interface.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ds_abandon ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XDS (3),
.BR XOM (3),
.\"ds_add_entry.3.man
.\"ds_bind.3.man
.BR ds_compare (3),
.\"ds_initialize.3.man
.BR ds_list (3),
.\"ds_modify_entry.3.man
.\"ds_modify_rdn.3.man
.BR ds_read (3),
.BR ds_receive_result (3),
.\"ds_remove_entry.3.man
.BR ds_search (3).
.\"ds_shutdown.3.man
.\"ds_unbind.3.man
.\"ds_version.3.man
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xds (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ds_abandon ()
was first part of the
.BR XDS .
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
