'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ap_bind.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/09/29 14:08:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/09/29 14:08:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ap_bind.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:30  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DS_BIND 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ds_bind
\- open a session with the directory
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xds.h>
.HP
.BI "DS_status ds_bind(OM_object " session ", OM_workspace " workspace ", OM_private_object *" bound_session_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
To allow automatic connection management,
.BR ds_bind ()
may or may not communicat with a DSA when it is called.  The actual formation of a communications
association may be deferred until the first directory operation is attempted, and then may or may
not persist for a period of time.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I session
.BR Session (Object(Session))
Specifies a particular directory service provider, together with other details of the service
required.  This argument may be either a public object or a private object.  The constant
.RB [ DS_DEFAULT_SESSION ]
may also be used as the value of this argument, causing a new session to be created with default
values for all its OM attributes.
.TP
.I workspace
.BR Workspace (Workspace)
Specifies the workspace (obtained from a call to
.BR ds_initialize (3))
which is to be associated with the session.  All functions resulting from directory operations using
this session will be returned as private objects in this workspace.  If the
.I session
argument is a private object, it must be a private object in this workspace.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESULTS
.PP
.TP
.I retval
.BR Status (Status)
Whether or not the function completed successfully.  This function can return the constant
.RB [ DS_INVALID_WORKSPACE ]
or
.RB [ DS_SUCCESS ].
.TP
.I bound_session_return
.BR Bound-Session (Object(Session))
Upon successful completion, contains an instance of a directory session that may be used as an
argument to other functions (for example,
.BR ds_read (3)).
This will be a new private object if the value of
.B Session
was
.B Default-Session
or a public object, otherwise it will be that supplied as an argument.  The function will supply
default values for any of the OM attributes that were not present in the
.B Session
instance supplied as an argument.  It will also set the value of the
.B File-Descriptor
OM attribute (the value will be
.B No-Valid-File-Descriptor
.RB [ DS_NO_VALID_FILE_DESCRIPTOR]
fi the functionality is not supported.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a
.B System-Error
or one of the following
.B Library-Errors:
bad-session, miscellaneous, too-many-sessions.
.PP
The following
.B Directory-errors
may be returned by the functions: Security-Error, Service-Error.
.PP
This function can return a
.BR Communications-Error .
.PP
This function can return the error constant
.RB [ DS_INVALID_WORKSPACE ].
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR ds_bind ()
is implemented on top of the more complicated OSMIS 3.0 interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ds_bind ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XDS (3),
.BR XOM (3),
.BR ds_unbind (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xds (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ds_bind ()
was first part of the
.BR XDS .
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
