'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ds_compare.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-16 17:34:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-16 17:34:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ds_compare.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:22  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:14  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:30  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DS_COMPARE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ds_compare
\- compare an attribute value with that stored in a directory entry
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xds.h>
.HP
.BI "DS_status ds_compare(OM_private_object " session ", OM_private_object " context ", OM_object " name ", OM_Object " ava ", OM_private_object *" result_return ", OM_sint *" invoke_id_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Compares the value supplied in the given AVA with the value(s) of the same attribute type in the
named entry.  The result of this operation can be abandonned.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I session
.BR Session "(Object (Session))
The directory session agains which this operation is performed.  This must be a private object.
.TP
.I context
.BR Context "(Object (Context))
The directory context to be used for this operation.  Note that the
.B size-Limit
does not apply to this operation.  This argument must be a private object or the constant
.B Default-Context
.RB [ DS_DEFAULT_CONTEXT ].
.TP
.I name
.BR Name "(Object (Name))
The name of the target object entry.  Any aliases in the name will be dereferenced unless prohibited
by the relevant service control.
.TP
.I ava
.BR AVA "(Object (AVA))
The Attribute Value Assertion which specifies the attribute type and value to be compared with that
in the entry.
.\"
.\"
.SH RESULTS
.PP
.TP
.I retval
.BR Status (Status)
Whether the comparison was completed or not, if used syncrhonously, or whether the operation was
initiated, if used asynchronously.  Note that the operation fails and an error is returned either if
the target object is not found or if it does not have an attribute of the required type.
.TP
.I return_result
.BR Result "(Object (Compare-Result))
Upon successful completion of a synchronous call, the result contains flags indicating whether the
values matched and whether the comparison was made against the original entry.  It also contains the
distinguished name of the target object if an alias was dereferenced.
.TP
.I invoke_id_return
.BR Invoke-ID (Integer)
The
.B Invoke-ID
of an asyncrhonous directory operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a
.B System-Error
or one of the following
.B Library-Errors:
bad-argument, bad-class, bad-context, bad-name, bad-session, bad-workspace, miscellaneous,
missing-type, too-many-operations.
.PP
The following
.B Directory-Errors
may be returned by the function (or by
.BR ds_receive_result (3)
when used asynchronously); Attribute-Error, Name-Error, Referral, Security-Error, Service-Error.
.PP
This function can return a
.BR Communications-Error .
.PP
This function can return the error constant
.RB [ DS_NO_WORKSPACE ].
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR ds_compare ()
is implemented on top of the more complicated OSMIS 3.0 interface.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ds_compare ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XDS (3),
.BR XOM (3),
.BR ds_abandon (3),
.BR ds_receive_result (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xds (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ds_compare ()
was first part of the
.BR XDS .
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
