'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DS_MODIFY_ENTRY 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ds_modify_entry
\- perform an atomic modification on a directory entry
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xds.h>
.HP
.BI "DS_status ds_modify_entry(OM_private object " session ", OM_private_object " context ", OM_object " name ", OM_object " changes ", OM_sint *" invoke_id_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XDS
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function is used to make a series of one or more of the following changes
to a single directory entry:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
add a new attribute
.RB ( add-attribute )
.IP \(bu
remove an attribute
.RB ( remove-attribute )
.IP \(bu
add attribute values
.RB ( add-values )
.IP \(bu
remove attribute values
.RB ( remove-values ).
.PP
Values may be replaced by a combination of adding values and removing values in
a single operation.  The RDN can only be changed by using the
.BR ds_modify_rdn (3)
function.
.PP
The result of the operation is as if each modification is made in the order
specified in the
.I changes
argument.  If any of the individual modifications fails, then an
Attribute-Error is reported and the entry is left as it was prior to the whole
operation.  The operation is atomic; either all or none of the changes are
made.  The directory checks that the resulting entry conforms to the directory
schema.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR session "\0\fBSession\fP(Object(Session)).
The directory session agains which this operation is performed.  This must be a
private object.
.TP
.IR context "\0\fBContext\fP(Object(Context)).
The directory context to be used for this operation.  Note that
.B size-Limit
and
.B dont-Dereference-Aliases
do not apply to this operation.  This argument must be a private object or the
constant
.RB { DS_DEFAULT_CONTEXT }.
.TP
.IR name "\0\fBName\fP(Object(Name)).
The name of the target object entry.  Any aliases in the name will
.I not
be dereferenced.
.TP
.IR changes "\0(Object(Entry-Mod-List)).
A sequence of modifications to the named entry.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.BR Status "(Status)
Takes the value
.B success
if all the modifications succeeded and takes an error value if not, when the
function is used synchronously.  Reports whether the operation was initiated,
if used asynchronously.
.TP
.BR Invoke-ID "(Integer)
The
.B Invoke-ID
of an asyncrhonous directory operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a System-Error or one of the following Library-Errors:
bad-argumnet, bad-class, bad-context, bad-name, bad-session, bad-workspace,
miscellaneous, missing-type, too-many-operations.
.PP
The following Directory-Errors may be returned by the function (or by
.BR ds_receive_result (3)
when used asynchronously):
Attribute-Error, Name-Error, Referral, Security-Error, Service-Error,
Update-Error.
.PP
Attempting to use
.B add-attribute
to add an existing attribute results in an Attribute-Error.  Attempting to use
.B add-values
to add an existing value results in an Attribute-Error, as does an attempt to
add a value to a non-existent attribute type.  Attempting to use
.B remove-attribute
to remove a non-existing attribute results in an Attribute-Error, while an
attempt to remove an attribute that is part of the object's RDN results in an
Update-Error.  Attempting to use
.B remove-values
to remove a non-existing value results in an Attribute-Error, while an attempt
to remove a value of an attribute that is part of the object's RDN, or to
modify the object class attribute, results in an Update-Error.
.PP
This function can return a Communications-Error.
.PP
This function can return the error constant
.RB [ DS_NO_WORKSPACE ].
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR ds_modify_entry ()
is implemented on top of the more complicated OSMIS 3.0 interface.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ds_modify_entry ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XDS (3),
.BR XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xds (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ds_modify_entry ()
was first part of the
.BR XDS .
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
