'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ds_modify_rdn.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-16 17:34:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-16 17:34:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ds_modify_rdn.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:22  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DS_MODIFY_RDN 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ds_modify_rdn
\- change the relative distinguished name (RDN) or a leaf entry
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xds.h>
.HP
.BI "DS_status ds_modify_rdn(OM_private object " session ", OM_private_object " context ", OM_object " name ", OM_object " new_RDN ", OM_boolean " delete_old_RDN ", OM_sint *" invoke_id_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XDS
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function is used to change the RDN of a leaf entry (either an object entry
or an alias entry).
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR session "\0\fBSession\fP(Object(Session)).
The directory session against which this operation is performed.  This must be
a private object.
.TP
.IR context "\0\fBContext\fP(Object(Context)).
The directory context to be used for this operation.  Note that
.B size-Limite
and
.B dont-Dereference-Aliases
do not apply to this operation.  This argument must be a private object or the
constant
.RB { DS_DEFAULT_CONTEXT }.
.TP
.IR name "\0\fBName\fP(Object(Name)).
The current name of the target leaf entry.  Any aliases in the name will
.I not
be dereferenced.  The immediate superior should not have any non-specific
subroutine references, otherwise, the function may fail with an Update-Error
(affects-multiple-DSAs).  (A non-specific subordinate reference is an
indication that another DSA holds some number of children, but does not
indicate their RDNs.  This means that it is not possible to check the
uniqueness of the requested new RDN within a single DSA.)
.TP
.IR new_RDN "\0\fBNew-RDN\fP(Object(Relative Name)).
If an attribute in the new RDN does not already exist in the entry (either as
part of the old RDN or as a non-distinguished value), the new value is added.
If it cannot be added, an error is reported.
.TP
.IR delete_old_RDN "\0\fBDelete-Old-RDN\fP(Object(Boolean)).
If this value is
.BR true ,
all attribute values that are in the old RDN but not in the new RDN are
deleted.  If the value is
.BR false ,
the old values should remain in the entry (not as part of the RDN).  The value
must be
.B true
when a single value in the RDN has its value changed by the operation.  If this
operation removes the last attribute value of an attribute, that attribute will
be deleted.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.BR Status "(Status)
Whether the name of the entry was changed or not, if use syncrhonously, or
whether the operation was initiated, if used ansynchronously.
.TP
.BR Invoke-ID "(Integer)
The
.B Invoke-ID
of an asyncrhonous directory operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a System-Error or one of the following Library-Errors:
bad-argument, bad-class, bad-context, bad-name, bad-session, bad workspace,
miscellaneous, missing-type, too-many-operations.
.PP
The following Directory-Errors may be returned by the function (or by
.BR ds_receive_result (3)
when used asynchronously):
Attribute-Error, Name-Error, Referral, Security-Error, Service-Error,
Update-Error.
.PP
The Update-Error (affects-multiple-DSAs) that is referred to in the argument
descriptions need not be returned if there is local agreement between the DSAs
to allow the entry to be modified.
.PP
This function can return a Communications-Error.
.PP
This function can return the error constant
.RB [ DS_NO_WORKSPACE ].
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR ds_modify_rdn ()
is implemented on top of the more complicated OSMIS 3.0 interface.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ds_modify_rdn ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XDS (3),
.BR XOM (3),
.BR ds_modify_entry (3),
.BR ds_receive_result (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xds (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ds_modify ()
was first part of the
.BR XDS .
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
