'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ds_read.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-16 17:34:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-16 17:34:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ds_read.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:22  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DS_READ 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ds_read
\- query information on an entry by name
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xds.h>
.HP
.BI "DS_status ds_read(OM_private object " session ", OM_private_object " context ", OM_object " name ", OM_object " selection ", OM_private_object *" result_return ", OM_sint *" invoke_id_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XDS
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR ds_read ()
is used to extract information from an explicitly named entry.  It can also be
used to verify a distinguished name.
.PP
The result of this operation can be abandonned.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR session "\0\fBSession\fP(Object(Session)).
The directory session against which this operation is performed.  This must be
a private object.
.TP
.IR context "\0\fBContext\fP(Object(Context)).
The directory context to be used for this operation.  Note that
.B size-Limit
does not apply to this operation.  This argument must be a private object or
the constant
.RB { DS_DEFAULT_CONTEXT }.
.TP
.IR name "\0\fBName\fP(Object(Name)).
The name of the target object entry.  Any alises in the name will be
dereferenced unles prohibited by the
.B Dont-Dereference-Aliases
service command.
.TP
.IR selection "\0\fBSelection\fP(Object(Entry-Information-Selection)).
Specifies what information from the entry is requested.  Information about no
attribtues, all attributes or just for a named set can be chosen.  Attribute
types are always returned, but the attribute values need not be.  The possible
values of this argument are set out in [?].
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.BR Status "(Status)
Whether the read was completed or not, if used synchronously, or whether the
operation was initiated, if used asyncrhonously.
.TP
.BR Result "(Object(Read-Result))
Upon successful completion of a syncrhonous call, the result contains the
distinguished name of the target object, and a flag indicating whether the
result came from the original entry or a copy, as well as any requested
attribute types and values.  Attribute information is only returned if access
rights are sufficient.
.TP
.BR Invoke-ID "(Integer)
The
.B Invoke-ID
of an asyncrhonous directory operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a System-Error or one of the following Library-Errors:
bad-argument, bad-attribute, bad-class, bad-context, bad-name, bad-session,
bad-workspace, miscellaneous, missing-type, too-many-operations.
.PP
The following Directory-Errors may be returned by the function (or by
.BR ds_receive_result (3)
when used asynchronoulsy):
Attribute-Error, Name-Error, Referral, Security-Error, Service-Error.
.PP
An Attribute-Error (no-such-attribute) is reported if an explicit list of
attributes is specified by the
.I selection
argument, but none of them are present in the entry.  This error is not
reported if any of the selected attributes are present.
.PP
A Security-Error (insuficcient-access-rights) will only be reported where
access rights preclude the reading of all requested attribute values.
.PP
This function can return a Communications-Error.
.PP
This function can return the error constant
.RB [ DS_NO_WORKSPACE ].
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR ds_read ()
is implemented on top of the more complicated OSMIS 3.0 interface.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ds_read ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XDS (3),
.BR XOM (3),
.BR ds_abandon (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xds (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ds_read ()
was first part of the
.BR XDS .
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
