'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ds_receive_result.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-16 17:34:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-16 17:34:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ds_receive_result.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:22  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DS_RECEIVE_RESULT 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ds_receive_result
\- retrieve the result of an asyncrhonous executed operation
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xds.h>
.HP
.BI "DS_status ds_receive_result(OM_private object " session ", OM_sint " invoke_id ", OM_uint *" completion_flag_return ", DS_status *" operation_status_return ", OM_private_object *" result_return ", OM_sint *" invoke_id_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XDS
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR ds_receive_result ()
is used to retrieve the completed result of a previous asynchronous operation.
.PP
.BR ds_receive_result ()
results include two status indications.  One, called
.BR Status ,
indicates that this function call itself was successful; it is always returned.
The other, called
.BR Operation-Status ,
is used to return the status of the completed asynchronous operation, and is
only returned if there is one.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR Session "\0\fBSession\fP(Object(Session)).
The directory session against which this operation is performed.  This must be
a private object.
.TP
.IR invoke_id "\0\fBInvoke-ID\fP(Integer).
The invocation identifier of the asynchronous directory operation whose result
is to be returned.
.sp
If the value of this argumnet is
.RB { DS_ANY_OPERATION },
then the service will return the result of any asynchronous directory operation
that has completed.  The service will prioritize the retrieval of the completed
directory operations in an implementation defined manner.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.BR Status "(Status)
Takes an error value of one of the errors listed below occurred during the
execution of this function, and
.B success
otherise.
.TP
.BR completion_flag_return "Completion-Flag(Unsigned-Integer)
On of the following values to indicate the status of the outstanding
asynchronous directory operation(s) specified by the
.I invoke_id
input argument:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.BR "completed-operation [" DS_COMPLETED_OPERATION ].
The specified directory operation has completed and its result is made
available or, if
.B any-operation
was specified, at least one outstanding directory operation has completed and
its result is made available.
.IP \(bu
.BR "outstanding-operation [" DS_OUTSTANDING_OPERATIONS ].
There are outstanding asynchronous directory operations but none have yet
completed.
.IP \(bu
.BR "no-outstanding-operation [" DS_NO_OUTSTANDING_OPERATION ].
There are no outstanding asynchronous directory operations.
.IP \(bu
.BR "other-completed-operations [" DS_OTHER_COMPLETED_OPERATIONS ].
A particular directory operation was specified; that directory operation has
not completed, but one or more other directory operations have completed.
.RE
.sp
This results is validif the Status has the value
.BR success .
.sp
Upon successful return with
.I completion_flag_return
having the value
.BR completed-operaiton ,
the status and invocation identifier of the completed directory operation are
returned.
.TP
.IR operation_status_return "\0\fBOperation-Status\fP(Status)
Takes an error value if an error occurred during the execution of the
asynchronous directory operation, and
.B success
otherwise.  The possible error values are listed for each individual operation
int he corresponding function description.
.TP
.IR result_return "\0\fBResult\fP(Object *)
The result of the completed asynchronous operation.  Its value will be the
constant
.RB { DS_NULL_RESULT }
if the operation was one that does not return as result (that is,
.BR ds_add_entry (3),
.BR ds_modify_entry (3),
.BR ds_modify_rdn (3)
or
.BR ds_remove_entry (3)).
Otherwise, the OM object's OM class is that of the result of the asynchronous
operation, and can be determined by using the OM functions.
.[
XOM
.]
.PP
This result is only valid if the
.I status
has the value
.BR success ,
.I completion_flag_return
has the value
.B completed-operation
and
.I operation_status_return
has the value
.BR success .
.TP
.IR invoke_id_return "\0\fBInvoke-ID\fP(Integer) 
The
.B Invoke-ID
of the operation whose result is being returned.
.PP
This result is valid if the
.I status
has the value
.B success
and
.I completion_flag_return
has the value
.BR completed-operation .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a System-Error or one of the following Library-Errors:
bad-session, bad-workspace, miscellaneous.
.PP
This function does not report any Directory-Errors, or a Communication-Error,
in its Status result.  (Any such errors related to the completed asynchronous
operation are reported in
.IR operation_status_return ,
as described above).
.PP
This function can return the error constant
.RB [ DS_NO_WORKSPACE ].
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR ds_receive_result ()
is implemented on top of the more complicated OSMIS 3.0 interface.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ds_receive_result ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XDS (3),
.BR XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xds (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ds_receive_result ()
was first part of the
.BR XDS .
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
