'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DS_SEARCH 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ds_search
\- find entries of interest in a portion of the directory information tree
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xds.h>
.HP
.BI "DS_status ds_search(OM_private object " session ", OM_private_object " context ", OM_object " name ", OM_sint " subset ", OM_object " filter ", OM_boolean " search_aliases ", OM_object " selection ", OM_private_object *" result_return ", OM_sint *" invoke_id_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XDS
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function is sued to search a portion of the directory and return selected
information from entries of interest.  The information may be incomplete in
some circumstances.
.PP
The result of this operation can be abandoned.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR session "\0\fBSession\fP(Object(Session)).
The directory session against which this operation is performed.  This must be
a private object.
.TP
.IR context "\0\fBContext\fP(Object(Context)).
The directory context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be
a private object or the constant
.RB { DS_DEFAULT_CONTEXT }.
.TP
.IR name "\0\fBName\fP(Object(Name)).
The name of the object entry that forms the base of the search.  Any aliases in
the name will be dereferenced unless prohibited by
.B dont-Dereference-Aliases
service control.
.TP
.IR subset "\0\fBSubset\fP(Integer).
Specifies the portion of the directory information tree to be searched.  Its
value must be one of:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR "base-object " [ DS_BASE_OBJECT ].
Search just the given object entry.
.IP \(em
.BR "one-level " [ DS_ONE_LEVEL ].
Search just the immediate subordinates of the given object entry.
.IP \(em
.BR "whole-subtree " [ DS_WHOLE_SUBTREE ].
Search the given object and all its subordinates.
.RE
.TP
.IR filter "\0\fBFilter\fP(Object(Filter)).
The filter is used to eliminate entries from the search that are not wanted.
Information will only be returned on entries that satisfy the filter.  The
constant
.BR "No-Filter " [ DS_NO_FILTER ]
may be used as the value of the argument if all entries should be searched, and
non eliminated.  This corresponds to a filter with
.B Filter-Type
value of
.BR and ,
and no values of the OM attributes
.BR Filters " or " Filter-Items.
.TP
.IR search_aliases "\0\fBSearch-Aliases\fP(Boolean)
Any aliases in the subordinate entries being searched will be dereferenced if
the value of this argument is
.BR true ,
and will not be dereferenced if the value of this argument is
.BR true ,
and will not be dereferenced if its value is
.BR false .
.TP
.IR selection "\0\fBSelection\fP(Object(Entry-Information-Selection)).
Specifies what information form the entry is requested.  Information about no
attributes, all attributes or just for a named set can be chosen.  Attribute
types are always returned, but the attribute values need not be.
.sp
The value of the argument is an instance of OM class
.BR Entry-Information-Selection ,
but one of the constants below can be used in simple cases:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
To verify the existence of an entry for the purported name, use the constant
.B Select-No-Attributes
.RB { DS_SELECT_NO_ATTRIBUTES }.
.IP \(bu
To return just the types of all attributes, use the constant
.B Select-All-Types
.RB { DS_SELECT_ALL_TYPES }.
.IP \(bu
To return the types and values of all attributes, use the constant
.B Select-All-Types-And-Values
.RB { DS_SELECT_ALL_TYPES_AND_VALUES }.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.BR Status "(Status)
Takes the value
.B success
if the named object was located and takes an error value if not, when the
function is used synchronously.  Reports whether the operation was initiated,
if used asynchronously.
.TP
.BR Result "(Object(Search-Result))
Upon successful completion of a synchronous call, the result contains the
requested information from each object in the search space that satisfied the
filter.  The distinguished name of the target object is present if an alias was
dereferenced.  Also, there may be a partial outcome qualifier, that indicates
that the result is incomplete.  It also explanation why it is not complete and
how it could be completed.
.TP
.BR Invoke-ID "(Integer)
The
.B Invoke-ID
of an asynchronous directory operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a System-Error or one of the following Library-Errors:
bad-argument, bad-class, bad-context, bad-name, bad-session, bad-workspace,
miscellaneous, missing-type, too-many-operations.
.PP
The following Directory-Errors may be returned by the function (or by
.BR ds_receive_result (3)
when used asynchronously):
Attribute-Error, Name-Error, Referral, Security-Error, Service-Error.
.PP
Note that an unfiltered search of just the base object succeeds even if none of
the requested attributes are found, whilst
.BR ds_read (3)
fails with the same selected attributes.
.PP
A Security-Error (insufficient-access-rights) will only be reported where
access rights preclude the reading of all requested attribute values.
.PP
This function can return a Communications-Error.
.PP
This function can return the error constant
.RB [ DS_NO_WORKSPACE ].
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR ds_search ()
is implemented on top of the more complicated OSMIS 3.0 interface.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ds_search ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XDS (3),
.BR XOM (3),
.BR ds_receive_result (3),
.BR ds_abandon (3),
.BR ds_read (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xds (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ds_search ()
was first part of the
.BR XDS .
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
