'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DS_VERSION 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ds_version
\- negotiate features of the interface and service
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xds.h>
.HP
.BI "DS_status ds_version(DS_feature " feature_list "[], OM_workspace " workspace );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XDS
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function negotiates features of the interface, that are represented by
Object Identifiers, and associated them with a workspace.  The
Basic-Directory-Contents, Strong-Authentication, and MHS-Directory-User
packages, are the only negotiable features in this specification.  Features may
also include vendor extensions and new features in future versions of this
specification.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR feature_list "\0\fBFeature-List\fP(Feature-List)
An ordered sequence of features, each represented by an object identifier.  The
sequence is terminated by an object identifier having no components (a length
of zero and any value of the data pointer in the C representation).
.TP
.IR workspace "\0\fBWorksapce\fP(Workspace)
Specifies the workspace (obtained from a call to
.BR ds_initialize (3))
for which the features are to be negotiated.  The features will be in effect
for operations that use the workspace or directory sessions associated with the
workspace.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.BR Status "(Status)
Whether the function succeeded or not.
.TP
.BR Activated "(Boolean-List)
If the function completed successfully, this result contains an ordered
sequence of Boolean values, with the same number of elements as the
.BR Feature-List .
If true, each value indicates that the corresponding feature is now part of the
interface.  If false, each value indicates that the corresponding feature is
not available.
.sp
In the C binding, this result is combined with the
.B Feature-List
argument as a single array of structure of type
.IR DS_feature ,
which is defined as:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    OM_object_identifier    feature;
    OM_boolean              activated;
} DS_feature;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a System-Error or one of the following Library-Errors:
miscellaneous.
.PP
This function does not return a Communications-Error or any Directory-Errors.
.PP
This function can return the error constant
.RB [ DS_INVALID_WORKSPACE ].
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR ds_version ()
is implemented on top of the more complicated OSMIS 3.0 interface.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ds_version ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XDS (3),
.BR XOM (3),
.BR ds_initialize (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XDS.
.[
XDS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xds (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ds_version ()
was first part of the
.BR XDS .
.[
XDS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
