'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ft_abandon.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-26 11:11:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-26 11:11:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ft_abandon.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-26 11:11:54  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH FT_ABANDON 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ft_abandon
\- abandon an outstanding or interrupted operation
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
FTAM High-Level API, XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libftam (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xftam.h>
.HP
.B FT_return_code ft_abandon(
.br
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.br
.BI "OM_sint " invoke_id ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function cancels an interrupted synchronous function or abandons the
result of an asynchronous function invocation.  A cancelled synchronous
function is no longer outstanding after \fBft_abandon\fP() returns and its
results will never be returned by \fBft_rcvresult\fP().
.PP
Note that this function may cause the associated XFTAM operation to be
aborted, or a data transfer to be cancelled.  However, XFTAM only guarantees
that the result of the operation will not be returned.  No statement is made
regarding the state of the file(s) and filestore(s) involved in the abandoned
operation.
.PP
Asynchronous execution mode is an optional feature of XFTAM.  If an
implementation does not support this feature, \fBft_abandon\fP() returns the
error code [\fBFT_NO_SUCH_INVOKACTION\fP] since the API user cannot pass a
valid Invoke-ID.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.BI session " (Private Object (Session))
This parameter is a handle for a private object of class \fBSession\fP that
identifies the particular XFTAM \fIinstance\fP that is to perform the required
XFTAM operation.  The session identifies the resources associated with the
instance, including the XOM \fIworkspace\fP that contains all private objects
passed to or returned from this XFTAM function call.
.TP
.BI invoke_id " (Integer)
Selects the operation invocation to be aborted.  To cancel an interrupted
synchronous operation, the implementation defined constant
[\fBFT_CANCEL_SYNC_OP\fP] has to be passed.  To abandon an asynchronous
operation, the value of \fIinvoke_id\fP must be that returned by this function
call.
.TP
.BI api_out " (Private Object (API-Output-Parameters))
This parameter is always returned and is a handle for a private object of
class \fBAPI-Output-Parameters\fP.  It returns API-specific output parameters
for this function call.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
\fBft_abandon\fP() returns either [\fBFTE_SUCCESS\fP] or on of the values
listed in ERRORS.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
Operation Error Codes
.B FT_NO_SUCH_INVOKATION
.TP
API Error Codes
.B FTE_VENDOR
.br
.B FTE_SESSION
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ft_rcvresult (3),
.BR XFTAM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ft_abandon ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ft_abandon ()
is compatible with XFTAM
.[
xftam c415
.]
and implementations based on XFTAM, such as
.IR "Solstice OSI 9.0" ,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" ,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" ,
.IR "SVR 4.2 ONP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.  Binary compatibility will fail due to
the lack of published and standard symbolic constants.  Any binary
compatibility experienced is a bug and will be removed in the next release.
.PP
See \fBXFTAM\fP(3), \fBXOM\fP(3) and \fISTREAMS\fP(4) for additional
compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom c607
.]
XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ft_abandon ()
first appeared in XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XFTAM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4


