'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ft_connect.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-26 11:11:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-26 11:11:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ft_connect.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-26 11:11:54  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH FT_CONNECT 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ft_connect
\- establish an association with an FTAM file-store
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
FTAM High-Level API, XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libftam (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xftam.h>
.HP
.B FT_return_code ft_connect(
.br
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.br
.BI "OM_Object " p_address ,
.br
.BI "OM_Object " ftam_in ,
.br
.BI "OM_Object " api_in ,
.br
.BI "OM_uint32 *" association_id ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" ftam_out ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR ft_connect ()
function creates an association with an FTAM file-store identified by
.I p_address
and establishes an FTAM regime.
.PP
The function returns
.I association_id
as an integer that is used to identify the new association to other XFTAM
functions that will operate within the context of the association created.
.PP
.BR ft_connect ()
must be invoked first for context-sensitive operations to operate on any
association.  It may be invoked multiple times within a single XFTAM instance
and may be to the same
.I p_address
as each call creates a separate association.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.BI session " (Private Object (Session))
This parameter is a handle for a private object of the class
.B session
that identifies the particular XFTAM instance within which the association is
to be created.
.TP
.BI p_address " (Object (Presentation-Address))
This parameter is a handle for an object of the class
.BR "Presentation-Address" .
It is a mandatory parameter that identifies the FTAM responder that serves the
remote filestore.
.TP
.BI ftam_in " (Object(FTAM-Input-Parameters))
This parameter is a handle for an object class
.IR FTAM-Input-Parameters ,
specifying general FTAM parameters for use in this function.  The parameter is
optional.  However, failure to specify some of its OM attributes may result in
the remote responder rejecting the association request.  The
.BR ft_connect ()
function has the following specific requirements for the input object:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B Initiator-Identity.
.br
This is provided to identify the FTAM initiator to the responder.
.IP \(bu
.B Filestore-Password.
.br
This password is provided to authenticate the initiator to the FTAM responder.
.IP \(bu
.B Account.
.br
The account given is charged for all costs incurred by the FTAM regime.  This
may be overridden by providing an account parameter for subsequent FTAM
operations on the association.
.IP \(bu
.B FQoS.
.br
The FTAM quality of service parameter is used to indicate the level of error
recovery available at the FTAM initiator.
.RE
.TP
.BI association_id " (OM_uint32)
Upon successful completion, this parameter is used to return an integer that
identifies the XFTAM association created.  This value may be passed to other
XFTAM functions to identify the association to be used for a context-sensitive
request.
.TP
.BI ftam_out " (Object(FTAM-Output-Parameters))
This parameter is a handle for a private object of class
.IR FTAM-Output-Parameters ,
and is returned only if there are relevant FTAM output parameters to be
returned as a result of the FTAM actions performed.
.TP
.BI api_out " (Private Object(API-Output-Parameters))
This parameter is always returned and is a handle for a private object of class
.IR API-Output-Parameters .
It returns API-specific output parameters for this function call.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR ft_connect ()
returns either
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ]
or one of the values listed in
.RI \(lq ERRORS .\(rq
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
FTAM Error Codes
.B FTE_FTAM_CANCEL
.br
.B FTE_FTAM_PERMANENT
.br
.B FTE_PROVIDER_ABORT
.br
.B FTE_USER_ABORT
.br
.B FTE_FQOS_NOT_NEGOTIATED
.TP
Operation Error Code
.B FTE_ATTR_GRP_NOT_NEGOTIATED
.TP
API Error Codes
.B FTE_NO_RESOURCES
.br
.B FTE_VENDOR
.br
.B FTE_INV_PADDRESS
.br
.B FTE_SESSION
.br
.B FTE_TOO_MANY_ASSOC
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XFTAM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ft_connect ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ft_connect ()
is compatible with XFTAM
.[
xftam c415
.]
and implementations based on XFTAM, such as
.IR "Solstice OSI 9.0" ,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" ,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" ,
.IR "SVR 4.2 ONP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.  Binary compatibility will fail due to
the lack of published and standard symbolic constants.  Any binary
compatibility experienced is a bug and will be removed in the next release.
.PP
See \fBXFTAM\fP(3), \fBXOM\fP(3) and \fISTREAMS\fP(4) for additional
compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom c607
.]
XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ft_connect ()
first appeared in XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XFTAM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4





