'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ft_disconnect.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-26 11:11:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-26 11:11:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ft_disconnect.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-26 11:11:54  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH FT_DISCONNECT 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ft_disconnect
\- disconnect an XFTAM association
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
FTAM High-Level API, XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libftam (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xftam.h>
.HP
.B FT_return_code ft_disconnect(
.br
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.br
.BI "OM_uint32 " association_id ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" ftam_out ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function terminates an FTAM regime and destroys the underlying
association.
.PP
If the identified association has active functions in progress,
.BR ft_disconnect ()
returns an error code of
.RB [ FTE_PENDING_OP ]
and takes no action.
.PP
If the
.I Association-Id
provided does not represent an active association within the specified FTAM
instance,
.BR ft_disconnect ()
returns an error code of
.RB [ FTE_INV_ASSOC ].
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.BI session " (Private Object(Session))
This parameter is a handle for a private object of the class
.I Session
that identifies the particular XFTAM instance within which the association
exists.
.TP
.BI association_id " (integer)
This parameter is an integer that identifies the FTAM association to be closed
by
.BR ft_disconnect ()
and must be the value returned by
.BR ft_connect (3)
when the association was created.
.TP
.BI ftam_out " (Object(FTAM-Output-Parameters))
This parameter is a handle for a private object of class
.IR FTAM-Output-Parameters ,
and is returned only if there are relevant FTAM output parameters to be
returned for the output object:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B Charging-List
.br
When this attribute is present, charges associated with the FTAM regime and any
operations completed using it are returned.  The charges returned do not
include charges for file transfer or file management operations for which a
different account was provided in the
.IR FTAM-Input-Parameters ,
these charges being returned upon completion of that function.
.RE
.TP
.BI api_out " (Private Object(API-Output-Parameters))
This parameter is always returned and is a handle for the private object of
class
.IR API-Output-Parameters .
It returns API-specific output parameters for this function call.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR ft_disconnect ()
returns either
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ]
or one of the value listed in
.RI \(lq ERRORS .\(rq
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
Operation Error Codes
.B FT_INV_ASSOC
.br
.B FT_PENDING_OP
.TP
API Error Codes
.B FTE_VENDOR
.br
.B FTE_SESSION
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ft_connect (3),
.BR XFTAM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ft_disconnect ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ft_disconnect ()
is compatible with XFTAM
.[
xftam c415
.]
and implementations based on XFTAM, such as
.IR "Solstice OSI 9.0" ,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" ,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" ,
.IR "SVR 4.2 ONP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.  Binary compatibility will fail due to
the lack of published and standard symbolic constants.  Any binary
compatibility experienced is a bug and will be removed in the next release.
.PP
See \fBXFTAM\fP(3), \fBXOM\fP(3) and \fISTREAMS\fP(4) for additional
compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom c607
.]
XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ft_disconnect ()
first appeared in XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XFTAM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
