'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ft_fcattributes.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-26 11:11:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-26 11:11:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ft_fcattributes.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-26 11:11:54  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH FT_FCATTRIBUTES 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ft_fcattribtues
\- change the file attributes of an FTAM file
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
FTAM High-Level API, XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libftam (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xftam.h>
.HP
.B FT_return_code ft_fcattributes(
.br
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.br
.BI "OM_object " p_address ,
.br
.BI "OM_string *" filename ,
.br
.BI "OM_object " new_attributes ,
.br
.BI "OM_object " ftam_in ,
.br
.BI "OM_object " api_in ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" return_attributes ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" ftam_out ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR ft_fcattribtues ()
function modifies the FTAM file attributes of
.I filename
in the filestore identified by
.IR p_address .
.PP
The function may only be used to modify those attributes listed in the
description of the
.I new_attributes
parameter below.  Also, the FTAM attributes
.I data_time_of_attribute_mod
and
.I identify_of_attribute_mod
are changed by the responding as a result of invoking
.BR ft_fcattributes ().
.PP
If
.BR ft_fcattributes ()
is not successful, all FTAM file attributes of the target file (except
attributes implicitly changed by the responder) have the same value as before
invoking
.BR ft_fcattributes ().
If
.BR ft_fcattributes ()
is successful, the values of all FTAM attributes of the target file are
returned in the
.I return_attributes
object.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.BI session " (Private Object(Session))
This parameter is a handle for a private object of class
.B Session
that identifies the particular XFTAM instance that is to perform the required
XFTAM operation.  The session identifies the resources associated with the
instance, including the XOM
.I workspace
that contains all private objects passed to or returned from this XFTAM
function call.
.TP
.BI p_address " (Object(Presentation-Address)
This parameter is a handle for an object of class
.BR Presentation-Address .
If present, the Association-Id attribute of API-Input-Parameters shall be
absent as the operation is being carried out in the context free mode.  When
present, this attribute identifies the FTAM responder that serves the remote
filesystem.
.RS
.PP
If not present, the Association-Id attribute of API-Input-Parameters shall be
present as the operation is being carried out in the context-sensitive mode.
.PP
If both P-Address and Association-Id are present, the function returns an error
code
.RB [ FT_CONTEXT_MISMATCH ].
.RE
.TP
.BI filename " (String(Graphic))
The name fo the file for which attributes are to be modified.  A mandatory
parameter, given in the syntax used by the real filestore containing the file.
.TP
.BI new_attributes " (Object(New-Attributes))
This parameter is a handle for an object of class
.I New-Attributes
that contains the new values for the FTAM file attributes to be changed.  It is
a mandatory parameter that must contain at least one FTAM attribute value.
Only the following attributes may be changed by a call to this function:
.RS
.RS
.PP
FILENAME
.br
STORAGE_ACCOUNT
.br
FILE_AVAILABILITY
.br
FUTURE_FILESIZE
.br
ACCESS_CONTROL
.br
LEGAL_QUAL
.br
PRIVATE_USE
.RE
.PP
If the underlying FTAM service provider fails to negotiate the use of an FTAM
attribute group required for one of the specified attributes, the function
returns an error.  A request to change attributes other than those listed also
results in an error.
.PP
In the case of access-control, additional conditions, to be
.I added
to the target file's current list are specified in the OM attribute
.IR Access-Control-List ,
conditions to be
.I deleted
are specified using
.IR Delete-Access-Control-List .
FTAM states that a condition in the deletion list must exactly match one in the
target file's current access control attribute if the deletion is to succeed.
.RE
.TP
.BI ftam_in " (Object(FTAM-Input-Parameters))
This parameter is a handle for an object of class
.BR FTAM-Input-Parameters ,
specifying general FTAM parameter to use in this function.  The parameter is
optional.  However, failure to specify some of its OM attributes may result in
the remote responder rejecting the requested file actions.  The
.B ft_fcattributes ()
function has the following specific requirements for these parameters:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B Account.
.br
If context-sensitive processing mode is in use for this operation
(Association-Id is present) this parameter is optional.
.RS
.PP
WHen present, for the duration of this file transfer or file management
function, it overrides the current identified account to which charged are made
(as defined when
.BR ft_connect (3)
created the association).  In this case charges for this operation are returned
upon completion.
.PP
When not present, the account identified when
.BR ft_connect (3)
created the association is used for any charges and no charging information is
returned when this function completes, all charging information being returned
when the association is destroyed by
.BR ft_disconnect (3).
.RE
.IP \(bu
.B File-Passwords.
.br
This parameter is used to specify file passwords for the FTAM file actions to
be performed.  Set the
.I read_and_change_attribute
passwords if
.I filename
contains an access control element that specifies passwords for these actions.
.IP \(bu
.B Concurrency-Control.
.br
This parameter is used to specify concurrency locks for the FTAM file actions
to be performed.  Set the
.IR read_ " and " change_attribute
concurrency keys if
.I filename
contains an access control element that specifies locks required for these
actions.
.PP
If context-sensitive processing mode is in use for this function call
(Association-Id is present), the following parameters should not be present as
they have already been provided when the association was created.  In this
case, if any of these are present, the function returns an error code
.RB [ FT_CONTEXT_MISMATCH ].
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Initiator-Identity
.IP \(em
Filestore-Password
.IP \(em
FQoS
.RE
.RE
.TP
.BI api_in " (Object(API-Input-Parameters))
This
.I optional
parameter is the handle of an object of class
.BR API-Input-Parameters ,
that may contain API-specific parameters for use in this function call.
.RS
.PP
If context-sensitive processing mode is in use, this parameter contains the
Association-Id for an existing assocation.  If the Association-Id provided does
not represent an active association within the FTAM instance identified by
Session, the function returns an error code
.RB [ FTE_INV_ASSOC ].
.RE
.TP
.BI return_attributes " (Private Object(FTAM-Attributes))
If successful, this parameter is a handle for a private object of class
FTAM-Attributes wht contains the new values of all the target file's attributes
(not just those for which new values were supplied).  Return of attribute
information as a result of the change attribute file action is optional; some
responders may not do so.
.RS
.PP
Values are returned only for FTAM attributes from groups that the underlying
FTAM service provider was able to negotiate for the association.
.RE
.TP
.BI ftam_out " (Private Object(FTAM-Output-Parameters))
This parameter is a handle for a private object of class
FTAM-Output-Parameters, and is returned only if there are relevant FTAM output
parameters to be returned as a result of the FTAM actions performed.
.RS
.PP
If context-sensitive processing mode is in use, the following specific
parameter use applies:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B Charging-List.
.br
If an override account was provided (in the account attribute within
.IR ftam_in ),
any charges returned are those for this function only and do not include
connection changes.  The charges returned here are not included in the charges
returned when the association is destroyed with
.BR ft_disconnect (3).
.RE
.TP
.BI api_out " (Private Object(API-Output-Parameters))
This parameter is always returned and is a handle for a private object of class
API-Output-Parameters.  It returns API-specific output parameters for this
function call.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.SS Synchronous Calls
.PP
.BR ft_fcattributes ()
returns either
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ]
or one of the value listed below in
.RI \(lq ERRORS .\(rq
The function return code and the Return-Code XOM attribute of the
API-Output-Parameters output object are identical for synchronous calls.
.SS Asynchronous Calls
.PP
.BR ft_fcattributes ()
returns either
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ]
or one of the values in the API Error Codes list of the
.RI \(lq ERRORS \(rq
section, below.  If the call returns
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ]
the contents of
.IR ftam_out ", " api_out
and any other output parameters that this function returns are undefined (these
parameters are returned by a subsequent call to
.BR ft_rcv_result (3)).
For return codes other than
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ],
the function return code and the Return-Code XOM attribute fo the
API-Output-Parameters output object are identical.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
FTAM Error Codes
.B FTE_FTAM_CANCEL
.br
.B FTE_FTAM_PERMANENT
.br
.B FTE_PROVIDER_ABORT
.br
.B FTE_USER_ABORT
.TP
Operation Error Codes
.B FTE_INV_ATTRIBUTES
.br
.B FTE_ATTR_GRP_NOT_NEGOTIATED
.br
.B FTE_SERV_CLS_NOT_NEGOTIATED
.br
.B FTE_FUNCT_UNIT_NOT_NEGOTIATED
.TP
API Error Codes
.B FTE_CANCEL
.br
.B FTE_NO_RESOURCES
.br
.B FTE_VENDOR
.br
.B FTE_NOTSUP_ASYNC
.br
.B FTE_INV_PADDRESS
.br
.B FTE_SESSION
.br
.B FTE_TOO_MANY_OPS
.br
.B FTE_INV_ASSOC
.br
.B FTE_CONTEXT_MISMATCH
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The Access-Passwords OM attribute of the Attributes class is never returned.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ft_connect (3),
.BR ft_disconnect (3),
.BR ft_rcv_result (3),
.BR XFTAM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ft_fcattributes ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ft_fcattributes ()
is compatible with XFTAM
.[
xftam c415
.]
and implementations based on XFTAM, such as
.IR "Solstice OSI 9.0" ,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" ,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" ,
.IR "SVR 4.2 ONP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.  Binary compatibility will fail due to
the lack of published and standard symbolic constants.  Any binary
compatibility experienced is a bug and will be removed in the next release.
.PP
See \fBXFTAM\fP(3), \fBXOM\fP(3) and \fISTREAMS\fP(4) for additional
compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom c607
.]
XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ft_fcattributes ()
first appeared in XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XFTAM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
