'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ft_frattributes.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-26 11:11:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-26 11:11:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ft_frattributes.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-26 11:11:54  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH FT_FRATTRIBUTES 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ft_frattributes
\- read the file attributes of an FTAM file
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
FTAM High-Level API, XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libftam (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xftam.h>
.HP
.B FT_return_code ft_frattributes(
.br
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.br
.BI "OM_object " p_address ,
.br
.BI "OM_string *" filename ,
.br
.BI "OM_object " attribute_names ,
.br
.BI "OM_object " ftam_in ,
.br
.BI "OM_object " api_in ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" return_atttributes ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" ftam_out ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR ft_frattributes ()
function reads the values of the specified FTAM file attributes of
.I filename
in the filestore identified by
.IR p_address .
The set of attributes returned depend on the FTAM file attribute groups
negotiated for the connection and on the level of support for the attributes in
groups that the responder supports partially.  Some responders may return an
integer or string indicating \(lqNo value available\(rq for partially supported
attributes.  The values of the Access-Passwords OM attribute of the Attributes
class are never returned.
.PP
The filestore changes the FTAM file attributes
.I date_time_of_read
and
.I identity_of_reader
as a result of the read attribute action.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.BI session " (Private Object(Session))
This parameter is a handle for a private object of class Session that
identifies the particular XFTAM instance that is to perform the required XFTAM
operation.  The session identifies the resources associated with the instance,
including the XOM workspace that contains all private objects passed to or
returned from this XFTAM function call.
.IP
.BI p_address " (Object(Presentation-Address))
This parameter is a handle for an object of class Presentation-Address.  If
present, the Association-Id attribute or API-Input-Parameters shall be absent
as the operation is being carried out in context free mode.  When present, this
attribute identifies the FTAM responder that serves the remote filestore.
.RS
.PP
If not present, the Association-Id attribute of API-Input-Parameters shall be
present as the operation is being carried out in context sensitive mode.
.PP
If both P-Address and Association-Id are present, the function returns an error
code
.RB [ FT_CONTEXT_MISMATCH ].
.RE
.TP
.BI filename " (String(Graphic))
The name of the file for which attributes are to be read.  A mandatory
parameter, given in the syntax used by the real filestore containing the file.
.TP
.BI attribute_names " (Object(FTAM-Attribute-Names))
This optional parameter is a handle for an object of class FTAM-Attribute-Names
that indicates the file attributes from the kernel or negotiated FTAM
attribute groups to read.  If not specified,
.I attribute_names
defaults to all the attributes associated with the attribute groups negotiated
for the association.
.RS
.PP
The attributes that may be read are:
.RS
.PP
FILENAME,
.br
PERMITTED_ACTIONS,
.br
CONTEST_TYPE,
.br
CREATE_DATE_TIME,
.br
MOD_DATE_TIME,
.br
READ_DATE_TIME,
.br
ATT_MOD_DATE_TIME,
.br
ID_OF_CREATOR,
.br
ID_OF_MODIFIER,
.br
ID_OF_READER,
.br
ID_OF_ATT_MOD,
.br
STORAGE_ACCOUNT,
.br
FILE_AVAILABILITY,
.br
FILESIZE,
.br
FUTURE_FILESIZE,
.br
ACCESS_CONTROL,
.br
LEGAL_QUAL,
.br
PRIVATE_USER.
.PP
.RE
If the underlying FTAM service provider fails to negotiate the use of an FTAM
attribute group required for one of the specified attributes, the function
returns an error.  A request to read attributes other than those listed here
also results in an error.
.RE
.TP
.BI ftam_in " (Object(FTAM-Input-Parameters))
This parameter is a handle for an object of class FTAM-Input-Parameters,
specifying general FTAM parameters for use in this function.  The parameter is
optional.  However, failure to specify some of its OM attributes may result in
the remote responder rejecting the requested file actions.  The
\fBft_frattributes\fP() function has the following specific requirements for
these parameters:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B Account.
If context-sensitive processing mode is in use for this operation
(Association-Id is present), this parameter is optional.  When present, for the
duration of this file transfer or file management function, it overrides the
current identified account to which charges are made (as defined when
.BR ft_connect (3)
created the association).  In this case, charges for this operation are returned
upon completion.  When not present, the account identified when
.BR ft_connect (3)
created the association is used for any charges, and no charging information is
returned when this function completes, all charging information being returned
when the association is destroyed by
.BR ft_disconnect (3).
.IP \(bu
.B File-Passwords.
This parameter is used to specify file passwords for the FTAM file actions to
be performed.  Set the read and read_attribute passwords if filename contains an
access control element that specifies passwords for these actions.
.IP \(bu
.B Concurrency-Control.
This parameter is used to specify concurrency locks for the FTAM file actions
to beperformed.  Set the read and read_attribute concurrency keys if filename
contains an access control element that specifies locks for these actions.  If
context-sensitive processing mode is in use for this function call
(Association-Id is present), the following parameters should not be present as
they have already been provided when the association was created.  In this case,
if any of these are present, the function returns an error code
[FT_CONTEXT_MISMATCH].
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Initiator-Identity
.IP \(em
Filestore-Password
.IP \(em
FQoS.
.RE
.RE
.TP
.BI api_in " (Object (API-Input-Parameters))
This optional parameter is the handle of an object of class
API-Input-Parameters, that may contain API-specific parameters for use in this
function call.  If context-sensitive processing mode is in use, this parameter
contains the Association-Id for an existing association.  If the Association-Id
provided does not represent an active association within the FTAM instance
identified by Session, the function returns an error code [FTE_INV_ASSOC].
.TP
.BI return_attributes " (Private Object(FTAM-Attributes))
If successful, this parameter is a handle for a private object of class
FTAM-Attributes that contains the values of the attributes requested.  If the
accessed file is of a type supported by XFTAM, the object handle returned in
the Content-Type XOM attribute will point to an object describing the specific
document type of the file (for example Document-Type-FTAM-1), including any
associated parameters.  Alternatively, if the document type is not supported,
the returned object will be a simple Document-Type object (that is, no
information is returned about the values of any parameters that may be
associated with the document type).  ftam_out (Private Object
(FTAM-Output-Parameters)) This parameter is a handle for a private object of
class FTAM-Output-Parameters, and is returned only if there are relevant FTAM
output parameters to be returned as a result of the FTAM actions performed.
.RS
.PP
If context-sensitive processing mode is in use, the following specific
parameter use applies:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B Charging-List.
If an override account was provided (in the account attribute within ftam_in),
any charges returned are those for this function only and do not include
connection changes.  The charges returned here are not included in the charges
returned when the association is destroyed with
.BR ft_disconnect (3).
.RE
.TP
.BI api_out " (Private Object (API-Output-Parameters))
This parameter is always returned and is a handle for a private object of class
API-Output- Parameters.  It returns API-specific output parameters for this
function call.
.SH RETURN
.PP
For synchronous calls:
.BR ft_frattributes ()
returns either [FTE_SUCCESS] or one of the values listed below in ERRORS.  The
function return code and the Return-Code OM attribute of the
API-Output-parameters output object are identical for synchronous calls.
.RS
.PP
For asynchronous calls:
.BR ft_frattributes ()
returns either [FTE_SUCCESS] or one of the values in the API Error Codes listof
the ERRORS section below.  If the call returns [FTE_SUCCESS] the contents of
.IR ftam_out ", " api_out
and any other output parameters that this function returns are undefined (these
parameters are returned by a subsequent call to
.BR ft_rcv_result (3)).
For return codes other than [FTE_SUCCESS] the function return code and the
Return-Code XOM attribute of the API-Output-Parameters output object are
identical.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.TP
FTAM Error Codes
.B FTE_FTAM_CANCEL
.br
.B FTE_FTAM_PERMANENT
.br
.B FTE_PROVIDER_ABORT
.br
.B FTE_USER_ABORT
.TP
Operation Error Codes
.br
.B FTE_ATTR_GRP_NOT_NEGOTIATED
.br
.B FTE_SERV_CLS_NOT_NEGOTIATED
.br
.B FTE_FUNCT_UNIT_NOT_NEGOTIATED
.TP
API Error Codes
.br
.B FTE_CANCEL
.br
.B FTE_NO_RESOURCES
.br
.B FTE_VENDOR
.br
.B FTE_NOTSUP_ASYNC
.br
.B FTE_INV_PADDRESS
.br
.B FTE_SESSION
.br
.B FTE_TOO_MANY_OPS
.br
.B FTE_INV_ASSOC
.br
.B FTE_CONTEXT_MISMATCH
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.B The Access-Passwords XOM attribute of the FTAM-Attributes XOM class is never returned.
.\"
.\"
.SS SEE ALSO
.B ft_gperror (3),
.B ft_rcvresult (3),
.B XFTAM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ft_frattributes ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ft_frattributes ()
is compatible with XFTAM
.[
xftam c415
.]
and implementations based on XFTAM, such as
.IR "Solstice OSI 9.0" ,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" ,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" ,
.IR "SVR 4.2 ONP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.  Binary compatibility will fail due to
the lack of published and standard symbolic constants.  Any binary
compatibility experienced is a bug and will be removed in the next release.
.PP
See \fBXFTAM\fP(3), \fBXOM\fP(3) and \fISTREAMS\fP(4) for additional
compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom c607
.]
XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ft_frattributes ()
first appeared in XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XFTAM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
