'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ft_freceive.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-26 11:11:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-26 11:11:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ft_freceive.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-26 11:11:54  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH FT_FRECEIVE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ft_freceive
\- receive a file from an FTAM filestore
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
FTAM High-Level API, XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libftam (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xftam.h>
.HP
.B FT_return_code ft_freceive(
.br
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.br
.BI "OM_object " p_address ,
.br
.BI "OM_string *" src_filename ,
.br
.BI "OM_enum " src_effect ,
.br
.BI "OM_string *" dest_filename ,
.br
.BI "OM_enum " dest_efect ,
.br
.BI "OM_object " src_attributes ,
.br
.BI "OM_object " ftam_in ,
.br
.BI "OM_object " api_in ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" return_attribute ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" ftam_out ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBft_freceive\fP() function copies the \fIsrc_filename\fP in the FTAM
filestore identified by \fIp_address\fP to the local file \fIdest_filename\fP.
If \fIdest_filename\fP is \fBNULL\fP, the function attempts to use the source
filename as the name of the destination file, this may result in a modified
filename being created or the transfer may fail.
.PP
\fIsrc_effect\fP allows the source file to be deleted if the copy completes
successfully.  If the API user does not establish sufficient authorization in
the remote FTAM VFS to delete the source file, the file transfer succeeds but
the function returns an error indicating that the source file was not deleted.
.PP
\fIdest_effect\fP specifies the action to be taken if the destination file
already exists in the remote file system.  The transfer fails if fail is
specified, or if overwrite or extend is specified and the API user does not
have permission to perform the required action in the local filestore.
.PP
The setting of the file access permissions of the resulting destination file
are implementation dependant.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.BI session " (Private Object (Session))
This parameter is a handle for a private object of class Session that
identifies the particular XFTAM instance that is to perform the required XFTAM
operation.  The session identifies the resources associated with the instance,
including the XOM workspace that contains all private objects passed to or
returned from this XFTAM function call.
.TP
.BI p_address " (Object (Presentation-Address))
This parameter is a handle for an object of class Presentation Address.  If
present, the Association-Id attribute of API-Input-Parameters shall be absent
as the operation is being carried out in context free mode.  When present, this
attribute identifies the FTAM responder that serves the remote filestore.
.RS
.PP
If not present, the Association-Id attribute of API-Input-Parameters shall be
present as the operation is being carried out in context sensitive mode.
.PP
If both P-address and Association-Id are present, the function returns an
error code
.RB [ FT_CONTEXT_MISMATCH ].
.RE
.TP
.BI src_filename " (String(Graphic))
The name of the source file.  A mandatory parameter, given in the syntax used
by the real filestore containing the file.
.TP
.BI src_effect (Enum(Copy-Move))
This parameter is an enumeration that specifies the effect of the file
transfer upon the source file.  Possible values are:
.RE
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.IR FT_COPY_FILE ,
meaning that the source file is to be left in place when the file transfer is
complete (i.e\&. the transfer is a file copy).  The option uses the read FTAM
file action.
.IP \(bu
.IR FT_MOVE_FILE ,
meaning that the source file is to be deleted once the file transfer is
complete (i.e\&. the transfer is a file move).  If an error occurs that means
that the file transfer does not complete, source file is left in place.  The
option uses the read and delete FTAM file actions.
.PP
The transfer fails if the required file actions are not allowed by the files
permitted actions attribute, or if concurrency locks or file passwords are
required for the actions and are not correctly specified in the File-Passwords
and Concurrency-Control OM attributes of the FTAM-Input-Parameters object.
.RE
.TP
.BI dest_filename " (String(Graphic))
The name of the local destination file.  A mandatory parameter, given in the
syntax used by the real filestore containing the file.
.RS
.PP
A NULL value indicates that \fIsrc_filename\fP should be used as the filename
in the destination filestore.  The source filename may be modified by XFTAM to
conform to local file naming conventions, or the transfer may fail if the
source filename cannot be used.  The actual name of the file created is
returned in the functions \fIreturn_attributes\fP output parameter.
.RE
.TP
.BI dest_effect " (Enum (Receive-Effect))
This parameter is an enumeration that defines the action to be taken if the
destination file \fIdest_filename\fP exists.  It takes one of the following
values:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.I FT_OVERWRITE
\- delete the existing file and replace with the file received.  The transfer
fails if the user does not have permission to delete the file.
.IP \(bu
.I FT_APPEND
\- the remote file is appended to the existing local file.  The transfer fails
if the user does not have write permission for the file.
.IP \(bu
.I FT_FAIL
\- the file transfer fails.
.RE
.TP
.BI src_attributes " (Object (FTAM-Attributes))
This parameter is a handle to an object of class FTAM-Attributes.  Only the
Content-Type OM attribute is significant for this call.  Other OM attributes
are ignored.  If this parameter is NULL, or if no Document-Type OM attribute is
included, XFTAM does not specify what document type it is expecting to
receive.  In this case the transfer may fail if the actual document type or
parameter combination specified by the source files file attributes is not
supported by the local XFTAM implementation.
.RS
.PP
The API user may set the Content-Type OM attribute to restrict the type of
file read from the responder.  This may case the request to fail if the
specified content type does not match that of the source file or a valid
simplification/relaxation of it according to the rules specified by FTAM.  It
may also fail if the local implementation does not support the specified
document type or combination of parameters.
.RE
.TP
.BI ftam_in " (Object (FTAM-Input-Parameters))
This parameter is a handle for an object of class FTAM-Input-Parameters,
specifying general FTAM parameters for use in this function.  The parameter is
optional.  However, failure to specify some of its OM attributes may result in
the remote responder rejecting the requested file actions.
.RS
.PP
The
.BR ft_freceive ()
function has the following specific requirements for these parameters:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B Account.
.br
If context-sensitive processing mode is in use for this operation
(Association-Id is present), this parameter is optional.
.RS
.PP
When present, for the duration of this file transfer or file management
function, it overrides the current identified account to which charges are
made (as defined when
.BR ft_connect (3)
created the association).  In this case, charges for this operation are
returned upon completion.
.PP
When not present, the account identified when
.BR ft_connect (3)
created the association is used for any charges, and no charging information
is returned when this function completes, all charging information being
returned when the association is destroyed by
.BR ft_disconnect (3).
.RE
.IP \(bu
.B File-Passwords.
.br
This parameter is used to specify file passwords for the FTAM file actions to
be performed.  Set the password for the required action if
.I src_filename
contains an access control element that specifies a password for this action.
(See the discussion of the src_effect parameter above for a description of the
FTAM file actions that this function may perform.)
.IP \(bu
.B Concurrency-Control.
.br
This parameter is used to specify concurrency locks for the FTAM file actions
to be performed.  Set the concurrency key for the required action if
.I src_filename
contains an access control element that specifies a lock for this action.
(See the discussion of the
.I src_effect
parameter above for a description of the FTAM file actions that this function
may perform.)
.PP
If context-sensitive processing mode is in use for this function call
(Association-Id is present), the following parameters should not be present as
they have already been provided when the association was created.  In this
case, if any of these are present, the function returns an error code
.RB [ FT_CONTEXT_MISMATCH ].
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Initiator-Identity
.IP \(em
Filestore-Password
.IP \(em
FQoS.
.RE
.TP
.BI api_in " (Object (API-Input-Parameters))
This optional parameter is the handle of an object of class
API-Input-Parameters, that may contain API-specific parameters for use in
this function call.
.RS
.PP
If context-sensitive processing mode is in use, this parameter contains the
Association-Id for an existing association.  If the Association-Id provided
does not represent an active association within the FTAM instance identified
by Session, the function returns an error code
.RB [ FTE_INV_ASSOC ].
.RE
.TP
.BI return-Attributes " (Private Object (FTAM-Attributes))
If successful, this parameter is a handle for a private object of class
FTAM-Attributes that returns the attributes of the file as received.
Attribute values are returned for the actual filename (which may differ from
that specified in the request) and the actual content type of the file
accessed.
.RS
.PP
The content type attribute is either that of the source file, or a valid
simplification if one was requested using the source-attribute input
parameter.  The contents of the file received may be processed by the local
FTAM initiator according to the content type received:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B FTAM-1.
This is an unstructured text file.  The contents of the file are filtered to
convert FTAM format effectors (in particular end of line) into the equivalent
local representation.  An XFTAM implementation must support a string length of
at least 134 characters for FTAM-1 files received (132 characters plus <CR>
<LF>).  Implementations may support larger or unlimited string lengths.
.IP \(bu
.B FTAM-2.
This is a sequential text file.  Support for this document type is optional.
XFTAM supports the transfer of entire files only.  No mechanism is provided for
transferring individual records from such a file.
.IP \(bu
.B FTAM-3.
This is an unstructured binary file.  The contents are not interpreted or
changed in any way when it is received.  An XFTAM implementation must support a
string length of at least 512 octets for FTAM-3 files received.
Implementations may support larger or unlimited string lengths.
.PP
The
.RB [ FTE_INV_STRING_LENGTH ]
error is returned if the user attempts to receive a document which exceeds the
maximum supported value for the maximum-string-length document type parameter.
.RE
.TP
.BI ftam_out " (Private Object (FTAM-Output-Parameters))
This parameter is a handle for a private object of class
FTAM-Output-Parameters, and is returned only if there are relevant FTAM output
parameters to be returned as a result of the FTAM actions performed.
.RS
.PP
If context-sensitive processing mode is in use, the following specific
parameter use applies:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B Charging-List.
.br
If an override account was provided (in the account attribute within ftam_in),
any charges returned are those for this function only and do not include
connection changes.  The charges returned here are not included in the charges
returned when the association is destroyed with
.BR ft_disconnect (3).
.RE
.TP
.BI api_out " (Private Object (API-Output-Parameters))
This parameter is always returned and is a handle for a private object of
class API-Output- Parameters.  It returns API-specific output parameters for
this function call.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.SS Synchronous Calls
.PP
.BR ft_freceive ()
returns either
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ]
or one of the values listed below in ERRORS.  The function return code and the
Return-Code OM attribute of the API-Output-parameters output object are
identical for synchronous calls.
.SS Asynchronous Calls
.PP
.BR ft_receive ()
returns either
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ]
or one of the values in the API Error Codes list of the ERRORS section below.
If the call returns
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ]
the contents of
.IR ftam_out ", " api_out
and any other output parameters that this function returns are undefined
(these parameters are returned by a subsequent call to
.BR ft_rcv_result (3)).
For return codes other than
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ]
the function return code and the Return-Code XOM attribute of the API-Output-
Parameters output object are identical.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
FTAM Error Codes
FTE_FTAM_CANCEL
.br
FTE_FTAM_PERMANENT
.br
FTE_PROVIDER_ABORT
.br
FTE_USER_ABORT
.TP
Operation Error Codes
FTE_FILE_EXISTS
.br
FTE_INV_DOC_RCVD
.br
FTE_INV_DOC_SPEC
.br
FTE_INV_STRING_LENGTH
.br
FTE_LOCAL_FILE_ERROR
.br
FTE_LOCAL_PERMISSION
.br
FTE_ATTR_GRP_NOT_NEGOTIATED
.br
FTE_SERV_CLS_NOT_NEGOTIATED
.br
FTE_FUNCT_UNIT_NOT_NEGOTIATED
.TP
API Error Codes
FTE_CANCEL
.br
FTE_NO_RESOURCES
.br
FTE_VENDOR
.br
FTE_NOTSUP_ASYNC
.br
FTE_NOTSUP_FQOS
.br
FTE_NOTSUP_FTAM2
.br
FTE_INV_PADDRESS
.br
FTE_SESSION
.br
FTE_TOO_MANY_OPS
.br
FTE_INV_ASSOC
.br
FTE_CONTEXT_MISMATCH
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ft_connect (3),
.BR ft_disconnect (3),
.BR ft_rcv_result (3),
.BR XFTAM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ft_freceive ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ft_freceive ()
is compatible with XFTAM
.[
xftam c415
.]
and implementations based on XFTAM, such as
.IR "Solstice OSI 9.0" ,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" ,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" ,
.IR "SVR 4.2 ONP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.  Binary compatibility will fail due to
the lack of published and standard symbolic constants.  Any binary
compatibility experienced is a bug and will be removed in the next release.
.PP
See \fBXFTAM\fP(3), \fBXOM\fP(3) and \fISTREAMS\fP(4) for additional
compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom c607
.]
XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ft_freceive ()
first appeared in XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XFTAM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
