'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ft_fsend.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-26 11:11:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-26 11:11:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ft_fsend.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-26 11:11:54  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH FT_FSEND 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ft_fsend
\- send a file to an FTAM filestore
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
FTAM High-Level API, XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libftam (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xftam.h>
.HP
.B FT_return_code ft_fsend(
.br
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.br
.BI "OM_string *" src_filename ,
.br
.BI "OM_enum " src_effect ,
.br
.BI "OM_object " p_address ,
.br
.BI "OM_string *" dest_filename ,
.br
.BI "OM_enum " dest_effect ,
.br
.BI "OM_object " initial_attributes ,
.br
.BI "OM_object " ftam_in ,
.br
.BI "OM_object " api_in ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" return_attributes ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" ftam_out ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBft_fsend\fP() function copies the local \fIsrc_filename\fP to
\fIdest_filename\fP on the FTAM filestore identified by \fIp_address\fP.  If
\fIdest_filename\fP is NULL, the function attempts to use the source filename
as the name of the destination file.  The transfer fails if the source filename
is not compatible with the destination filestore.
.PP
Whether it is derived from \fIsrc_filename\fP or \fIdest_filename\fP, the
actual filename created in the remote filestore may be modified by the remote
responder.
.PP
\fIdest_effect\fP specifies the action to be taken if the destination file
already exists in the remote filestore.  The transfer fails if the destination
file exists and one of the \fIdest_effect\fP options is chosen that is not
permitted for the file or for which the API user does not supply the
appropriate file passwords or concurrency locks.
.PP
The \fIinitial_attributes\fP input parameter allows the user to override the
values of some of the FTAM file attributes in the file created.  If this
parameter is not provided, some of the files FTAM attributes are determined
by XFTAM and others by the receiving FTAM responder.  The
\fIreturn_attributes\fP parameter returns the actual file attributes of the
file created by the destination responder (including the actual filename
created.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.BI session " (Private Object (Session))
This parameter is a handle for a private object of class Session that
identifies the particular XFTAM instance that is to perform the required XFTAM
operation.  The session identifies the resources associated with the instance,
including the XOM workspace that contains all private objects passed to or
returned from this XFTAM function call.
.TP
.BI src_filename " (String(Graphic))
The name of the local source file.  A mandatory parameter, given in the syntax
used by the real filestore containing the file.
.TP
.BI src_effect " (Enum(Copy-Move))
This parameter is an enumeration that specifies the effect of the file
transfer upon the source file.  The value is one of:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.IR FT_COPY_FILE ,
meaning that the source file is to be left in place when the file transfer is
complete (i.e\&. the transfer is a file copy).
.IP \(bu
.IR FT_MOVE_FILE ,
meaning that the source file is to be deleted once the file transfer is
complete (i.e\&. the transfer is a file move).  If an error occurs that means
that the file transfer does not complete, source file is left in place.  If the
user does not have permission to delete the source file, the file transfer
succeeds but the function returns an error indicating that the source file has
not been deleted.
.RE
.TP
.BI p_address " (Object (Presentation-Address))
This parameter is a handle for an object of class Presentation Address.  If
present, the Association-Id attribute of API-Input-Parameters shall be absent
as the operation is being carried out in context free mode.  When present, this
attribute identifies the FTAM responder that serves the remote filestore.
.RS
.PP
If not present, the Association-Id attribute of API-Input-Parameters shall be
present as the operation is being carried out in context sensitive mode.
.PP
If both P-address and Association-Id are present, the function returns an
error code
.RB [ FT_CONTEXT_MISMATCH ].
.RE
.TP
.BI dest_filename (String(Graphic))
The name of the destination file.  Given in the syntax used by the real
destination file system.  A NULL value indicates that \fIsrc_filename\fP should
be used as the filename in the destination filestore.
.RS
.PP
Whether it is derived from \fIsrc_filename\fP or \fIdest_filename\fP, the
created filename may be modified by the responder to conform to the file
naming conventions of the remote filestore.  The transfer fails if the
filename is not compatible with these conventions.  The actual name of the
file created is returned in the functions \fIreturn_attributes\fP output
parameter.
.RE
.TP
.BI dest_effect " (Enum (FTAM-Override))
This parameter maps onto the FTAM override parameter to the F-CREATE request
primitive and specifies the action to be taken by the responder in the case
where dest_filename exists.  The parameter can take the following parameters:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
FT_CREATE_FAILURE - the file transfer fails.
.IP \(bu
FT_SELECT_OLD_FILE - the local file is appended to the existing file on the
destination file store.  For FTAM-1 and FTAM-3 document types, this option uses
the FTAM extend file action; for FTAM-2, it uses insert.
.IP \(bu
FT_DELETE_AND_CREATE_WITH_OLD_ATTRIBUTES - the local file overwrites the
destination file, preserving the attributes of the destination.  This option
uses the FTAM delete file action.  In addition, for FTAM-1 and FTAM-3 document
types, this option uses the FTAM replace file action; for FTAM-2, it uses
insert.
.IP \(bu
FT_DELETE_AND_CREATE_WITH_NEW_ATTRIBUTES - the local file overwrites the
destination file, the new file as attributes are as specified by the FTAM
Initial Attributes parameter.  This option uses the FTAM delete file action.
In addition, for FTAM-1 and FTAM-3 document types, this option uses the FTAM
replace file action; for FTAM-2, it uses insert.
.RS
.IP \fBNote:\fP \w'\fBNote:\fP\(em'u
As the FTAM file attributes of the new file are established as part of the
create operation, no password need be specified in the File-Passwords
attribute of FTAM-Input-Parameters in order to perform the replace/insert
action in this case.
.RE
.PP
The transfer fails if one of the required file actions is not allowed by the
file's permitted actions attribute, or if concurrency locks or file password is
required for the action and are not correctly specified in the File-Passwords
and Concurrency-Control OM attributes of the FTAM-Input-Parameters object.
.RE
.TP
.BI initial-attributes " (Object (FTAM-Attributes))
This optional parameter is a handle for an object of class FTAM-Attributes
specifying the file attributes that are to be set for the destination file in
the initial attributes FTAM parameter to the F-CREATE request primitive.  A
value for an attribute specified here overrides any default value that the
local XFTAM implementation may provide.  In turn, the receiving responder may
modify certain attributes when creating the file, or set attributes other than
those in the kernel group to no value available.  The user may specify the
following FTAM file attributes in a call to the
.BR ft_fsend ()
function:
.RS
.RS
.PP
PERMITTED_ACTIONS
.br
CONTENTS_TYPE
.br
STORAGE_ACCOUNT,
.br
FILE_AVAILABILITY
.br
FUTURE_FILESIZE
.br
ACCESS_CONTROL
.br
LEGAL_QUAL
.br
PRIVATE_USE
.RE
.PP
If the underlying FTAM service provider fails to negotiate the use of an FTAM
attribute group required for one of the specified attributes, the function
returns an error.  A request to specify an initial value for an attribute other
than those listed here also results in an error.
.PP
The following specific points should be noted:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B Filename
.br
This parameter is set by XFTAM from the src_filename and dest_filename
function parameters as noted above.  The FTAM responder may modify the value of
this attribute for the created file, the modified value is returned in the
functions return_attributes output parameter.
.IP \(bu
.B Permitted actions
.br
The FTAM responder may modify the value of this attribute for the created
file, the modified value is returned in the return_attributes function output
parameter.
.IP \(bu
.B Contents type
.br
If the user does not specify a value for this FTAM attribute, XFTAM defaults
it to the defined FTAM-1 set or optionally determines the file contents type
by an implementation defined lookup service.  If the implementation defined
service is unable to determine the file contents type, it defaults it to the
FTAM-1 set.  The implementation of the lookup service is beyond the scope of
this specification.
.RS
.IP \fBNote:\fP \w'\fBNote:\fP\(em'u
When the user application is able to determine the contents type, it is
recommended to specify a value for this FTAM attribute.  Relying on the setting
of the default value may be inappropriate.  For example, transferring a binary
file (FTAM-3) as a text file (FTAM-1) may fail due to new linear manipulation.
.PP
The FTAM-1 default contents type:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Document type = FTAM-1 (unstructured text)
.IP \(em
Universal class = General String (text may contain format effectors)
.IP \(em
Maximum string length = unlimited.
.IP \(em
String significance = non-significant (lines from the source file are
delimited by the FTAM format effectors <CR> <LF>).
.PP
The source file is assumed to be an unstructured file, containing a stream of
bytes.  If the file contains text such as screen or print images, the document
type may be specified as FTAM-1 with additional parameters to specify the
appropriate universal class number (for example IA5-String).
.PP
If the file to be transferred contains binary information, the API user may
specify an alternative document type (FTAM-3), to avoid unwanted
interpretation of the source file's contents.
.PP
If an implementation supports the optional FTAM-2 document type, the API user
may specify that the file is to be transferred as a sequential text file.
XFTAM supports the transfer of entire files only, no mechanism is provided for
transferring individual records from such a file.  The default parameters for
such a file are as for the FTAM-1 document type.  The mechanism by which the
record boundaries of the FTAM-2 document are identified in the local filestore
is outside of the scope of XFTAM.
.PP
The transfer may fail if a document type or parameter combination not
supported by the local implementation is specified.
.PP
The minimum value for the maximum-string-length document type parameter that
an XFTAM implementation must support is 134 characters for the FTAM-1 and
FTAM-2 document types, and 512 octets for FTAM-3.  The [FTE_INV_STRING_LENGTH]
error is returned if the user attempts to send a document that exceeds the
maximum supported value for this parameter.
.RE
.RE
.TP
.BI ftam_in " (Object (FTAM-Input-Parameters))
This parameter is a handle for an object of class FTAM-Input-Parameters,
specifying general FTAM parameters for use in this function.  The parameter is
optional.  However, failure to specify some of its OM attributes may result in
the remote responder rejecting the requested file actions.  The
.BR ft_fsend ()
function has the following specific requirements for the input object:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B Account
.br
If context-sensitive processing mode is in use for this operation
(Association-Id is present), this parameter is optional.
.RS
.PP
When present, for the duration of this file transfer or file management
function, it overrides the current identified account to which charges are
made (as defined when
.BR ft_connect (3)
created the association).  In this case, charges for this operation are
returned upon completion.
.PP
When not present, the account identified when
.BR ft_connect (3)
created the association is used for any charges, and no charging information
is returned when this function completes, all charging information being
returned when the association is destroyed by
.BR ft_disconnect (3).
.RE
.IP \(bu
.B Create-Password
.br
Some responders may require this FTAM attribute to be specified when a file is
to be created in the destination filestore.
.IP \(bu
.B File-Passwords
.br
This parameter is used to specify file passwords for the FTAM file actions to
be performed.  Set the password for the required action if \fIdest_filename\fP
already exists and contains an access control element that specifies a
password for this action.  (See the discussion of the \fIdest_effect\fP
parameter above for a description of the FTAM file actions that this function
may perform).
.IP \(bu
.B Concurrency-Control
.br
This parameter is used to specify concurrency locks for the FTAM file actions
to be performed.  Set the concurrency key for the required action if
\fIdest_filename\fP already exists and contains an access control element
that specifies a lock for this action.  (See the discussion of the
\fIdest_effect\fP parameter above for a description of the FTAM file actions
that this function may perform).
.PP
If context-sensitive processing mode is in use for this function call
(Association-Id is present), the following parameters should not be present as
they have already been provided when the association was created.  In this
case, if any of these are present, the function returns an error code
.RB [ FT_CONTEXT_MISMATCH ].
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Initiator-Identity
.IP \(em
Filestore-Password
.IP \(em
FQoS.
.RE
.TP
.BI api_in " (Object (API-Input-Parameters))
This optional parameter is the handle of an object of class
API-Input-Parameters, that may contain API-specific parameters for use in
this function call.
.RS
.PP
If context-sensitive processing mode is in use, this parameter contains the
Association-Id for an existing association.  If the Association-Id provided
does not represent an active association within the FTAM instance identified
by Session, the function returns an error code
.RB [ FTE_INV_ASSOC ].
.RE
.TP
.BI return_attributes " (Private Object (FTAM-Attributes))
If successful, attribute values are returned for the actual filename of the
file created, and its permitted actions, either of that may have been
modified by the remote responder when creating the file in the virtual
filestore.
.TP
.BI ftam_out " (Private Object (FTAM-Output-Parameters))
This parameter is a handle for a private object of class
FTAM-Output-Parameters, and is returned only if there are relevant FTAM output
parameters to be returned as a result of the FTAM actions performed.
.RS
.PP
If context-sensitive processing mode is in use, the following specific
parameter use applies:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B Charging-List
.br
If an override account was provided (in the account attribute within ftam_in),
any charges returned are those for this function only and do not include
connection changes.  The charges returned here are not included in the charges
returned when the association is destroyed with
.BR ft_disconnect (3).
.RE
.TP
.BI api_out " (Private Object (API-Output-Parameters))
This parameter is always returned and is a handle for a private object of
class API-Output- Parameters.  It returns API-specific output parameters for
this function call.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.SS Synchronous Calls
.PP
.BR ft_fsend (3)
returns either
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ]
or one of the values listed below in ERRORS.  The function return code and the
Return-Code OM attribute of the API-Output-parameters output object are
identical for synchronous calls.
.SS Asynchronous Calls
.PP
.BR ft_fsend ()
returns either
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ]
or one of the values in the API Error Codes list of the ERRORS section below.
If the call returns
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ]
the contents of
.IR ftam_out ", " api_out
and any other output parameters that this function returns are undefined
(these parameters are returned by a subsequent call to
.BR ft_rcv_result (3)).
For return codes other than
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ]
the function return code and the Return-Code XOM attribute of the
API-Output-Parameters output object are identical.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
FTAM Error Codes
FTE_FTAM_CANCEL
.br
FTE_FTAM_PERMANENT
.br
FTE_PROVIDER_ABORT
.br
FTE_USER_ABORT
.TP
Operation Error Codes
FTE_INV_ATTRIBUTE
.br
FTE_INV_DOC_SPEC
.br
FTE_INV_STRING_LENGTH
.br
FTE_LOCAL_FILE_ERROR
.br
FTE_LOCAL_PERMISSION
.br
FTE_NO_SRC_FILE
.br
FTE_ATTR_GRP_NOT_NEGOTIATED
.br
FTE_SERV_CLS_NOT_NEGOTIATED
.br
FTE_FUNCT_UNIT_NOT_NEGOTIATED
.TP
API Error Codes
FTE_CANCEL
.br
FTE_NO_RESOURCES
.br
FTE_VENDOR
.br
FTE_NOTSUP_ASYNC
.br
FTE_NOTSUP_FQOS
.br
FTE_NOTSUP_FTAM2
.br
FTE_INV_PADDRESS
.br
FTE_SESSION
.br
FTE_TOO_MANY_OPS
.br
FTE_INV_ASSOC
.br
FTE_CONTEXT_MISMATCH
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ft_connect (3),
.BR ft_disconnect (3),
.BR ft_rcv_result (3),
.BR XFTAM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ft_fsend ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ft_fsend ()
is compatible with XFTAM
.[
xftam c415
.]
and implementations based on XFTAM, such as
.IR "Solstice OSI 9.0" ,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" ,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" ,
.IR "SVR 4.2 ONP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.  Binary compatibility will fail due to
the lack of published and standard symbolic constants.  Any binary
compatibility experienced is a bug and will be removed in the next release.
.PP
See \fBXFTAM\fP(3), \fBXOM\fP(3) and \fISTREAMS\fP(4) for additional
compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom c607
.]
XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ft_fsend ()
first appeared in XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XFTAM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
