'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ft_gperror.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-26 11:11:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-26 11:11:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ft_gperror.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-26 11:11:54  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH FT_GPERROR 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ft_gperror
\- translate an FTAM error to a printable string
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
FTAM High-Level API, XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libftam (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xftam.h>
.HP
.B FT_return_code ft_gperror(
.br
.BI "OM_private_object " api_out_in ,
.br
.BI "OM_string **" return_string ,
.br
.BI "OM_string **" vendor_string ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR ft_gperror ()
function translates the result of a previous call to an XFTAM API function
into a pair of printable strings, corresponding to the Return-Code and
Vendor-Code attributes of the API-Output-Parameters object class.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.BI api_out_in " (Private Object (API-Output-Parameters))
This mandatory parameter is a handle for an object of class
API-Output-Parameters that contains the API output parameters for a previous
another function call for which the printable errors strings are required.
.TP
.BI return_string " (OM_String(*))
A text string in the natural language of the current locale that represents
the Return-Code attribute of the \fIapi_out_in\fP parameter.  This is the
XFTAM-specified error code and is always returned.  The resulting string is
formatted for printing as a self-contained unit (for example, in an English
language locale, it includes a terminating newline character).  The user must
pass a pointer to a location of type \fBOM_string *\fP.  If the pointer in the
referenced location is \fBNULL\fP,
.BR ft_gperror ()
will allocate storage for the string and return a pointer to it into the
referenced location.  Otherwise, the pointer in the referenced location must
point to at least 256 octets of storage, the string will be stored in the
locations pointed to.
.TP
.BI vendor_string " (OM_String (*))
A text string in the natural language of the current locale that represents
the Vendor-Code attribute of the \fiapi_out_in\fP parameter.  This is an
optional implementation-specific error code and is not returned if the
\fIapi_out_in\fP parameter did not contain an equivalent code.  The resulting
string is formatted for printing as a self-contained unit (for example, in an
English language locale, it includes a terminating newline character).  The
comments regarding allocation of storage for the \fIreturn_string\fP return
parameter also apply to this parameter.  If no vendor string is available, the
returned string will be zero-length (if the user supplies the storage), or the
returned pointer will be NULL (if the allocation of storage is left to
.BR ft_gperror ()).
.TP
.BI api_out " (Private Object (API-Output-Parameters))
This parameter is always returned and is a handle for a private object of
class API-Output-Parameters.  It returns API-specific output parameters for
this function call.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.RB ft_gperror ()
returns either
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ]
or one of the values listed below in
.RI \(lq ERRORS .\(rq
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
Operation Error Codes
FTE_INV_RETURN_CODE
.br
FTE_INV_VENDOR_CODE
.TP
API Error Code
FTE_CANCEL
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ft_connect (3),
.BR ft_disconnect (3),
.BR ft_rcv_result (3),
.BR XFTAM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ft_gperror ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ft_gperror ()
is compatible with XFTAM
.[
xftam c415
.]
and implementations based on XFTAM, such as
.IR "Solstice OSI 9.0" ,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" ,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" ,
.IR "SVR 4.2 ONP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.  Binary compatibility will fail due to
the lack of published and standard symbolic constants.  Any binary
compatibility experienced is a bug and will be removed in the next release.
.PP
See \fBXFTAM\fP(3), \fBXOM\fP(3) and \fISTREAMS\fP(4) for additional
compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom c607
.]
XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ft_gperror ()
first appeared in XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XFTAM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
