'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ft_open.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-26 11:11:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-26 11:11:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ft_open.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-26 11:11:54  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH FT_OPEN 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ft_open
\- initialize a session with XFTAM and allocate a workspace
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
FTAM High-Level API, XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libftam (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xftam.h>
.HP
.B FT_return_code ft_open(
.br
.BI "FT_package_t " package_list[] ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" session ,
.br
.BI "OM_workspace *" workspace );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function creates an XFTAM instance and performs any necessary
initialization of the API, including allocation of an XOM workspace for the
storage of private objects defined by the XFTAM Base package.  The function
returns a private object of class Session that is used to identify the new
XFTAM instance to other XFTAM functions.
.PP
.BR ft_open ()
must be invoked before any other XFTAM functions.  It may be invoked multiple
times from within a single program, in which case each call creates a separate
XFTAM instance, returning a distinct session and associated workspace.
.PP
The \fIpackage_list\fP parameter may be used to negotiate the use of
additional optional packages with this XFTAM instance.  On return, the package
list is modified to indicate which of the requested packages are available in
the newly created workspace.  (Failure to negotiate the use of an optional
package does not cause the
.BR ft_open ()
function to fail - an application must check the returned array to determine
if it can proceed without the use of any rejected packages.)
.PP
XFTAM does not currently define any optional packages.  Additional packages may
be defined in the future to provide optional extensions to the base XFTAM
functionality.  Alternatively, individual XFTAM implementations may define
additional packages to support vendor extensions.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.BI package_list " (Feature-List)
A sequence of proposed optional XOM packages to be included in the workspace
created for this XFTAM instance.  Each proposed package is represented by an
.B ft_package
structure.  The sequence is terminated by an object identifier having no
components (a length of zero and any value of the data pointer).
.RS
.RS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    OM_object_identifier    package;
    OM_boolean              included;
} FT_package_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
On input, each package is identified by its allocated OSI object identifier.
On output, if the result of the function is
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ],
the list is updated to indicate, via the \fIincluded\fP field, whether each
proposed package has been included in the workspace.
.RE
.TP
.BI session " (Private Object (Session))
Upon successful completion, this parameter returns a handle to an object of
class Session that is used to identify the XFTAM instance created.  The
contents of this object are not modifiable by the API user.  An object of this
class must be passed to most other XFTAM functions in order to identify the
XFTAM instance that is to process the request.
.TP
.BI workspace (Workspace)
Upon successful completion, contains a handle to a workspace in which OM
objects, defined by the XFTAM Base Package and any negotiated packages, can be
created and manipulated.  Private objects created in this workspace, and only
such objects, may be used as arguments to the other XFTAM API functions.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR ft_open ()
returns either SUCCESS or one of the values listed below in
.RI \(lq ERRORS .\(rq
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP

FTE_NO_RESOURCES
.br
FT_NO_WORKSPACE
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ft_close (3),
.BR XFTAM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ft_open ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ft_open ()
is compatible with XFTAM
.[
xftam c415
.]
and implementations based on XFTAM, such as
.IR "Solstice OSI 9.0" ,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" ,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" ,
.IR "SVR 4.2 ONP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.  Binary compatibility will fail due to
the lack of published and standard symbolic constants.  Any binary
compatibility experienced is a bug and will be removed in the next release.
.PP
See \fBXFTAM\fP(3), \fBXOM\fP(3) and \fISTREAMS\fP(4) for additional
compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom c607
.]
XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ft_open ()
first appeared in XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XFTAM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
