'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ft_rcvresult.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-26 11:11:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-26 11:11:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ft_rcvresult.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-26 11:11:54  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH FT_RCVRESULT 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B ft_rcvresult
\- receive result of an asynchronous operation
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
FTAM High-Level API, XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libftam (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xftam.h>
.HP
.B FT_return_code ft_rcvresult(
.br
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.br
.BI "OM_uint *" completion_flag ,
.br
.BI "OM_uint32 *" op_invoke_id ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" op_api_out ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" op_ftam_out ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" op_result_object ,
.br
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function is used to retrieve the completed result of a previous
asynchronous operation invocation.  The \fIcompletion_flag\fP parameter
indicates if an outstanding invocation has completed, if so the other
parameters are used to return the invocation identifier and output object
handles associated with the completed operation.  The result of a completed
outstanding invocation will be returned exactly once.
.PP
Asynchronous execution mode is an optional feature of XFTAM.  If an
implementation does not support this feature,
.BR ft_rcvresult ()
returns an error code of
.RB [ FTE_NOTSUP_ASYNC ].
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.BI session " (Private Object (Session))
This parameter is a handle for a private object of class Session that
identifies the particular XFTAM instance that is to perform the required XFTAM
operation.  The session identifies the resources associated with the instance,
including the XOM workspace that contains all private objects passed to or
returned from this XFTAM function call.
.TP
.BI completion_flag (Integer)
One of the following values to indicate the status of outstanding asynchronous
operations:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
FT_COMPLETED_INVOKATION
.br
At least one outstanding invocation has completed and its result is made
available.
.IP \(bu
FT_OUTSTANDING_INVOKATIONS
.br
There are outstanding invocations, but none has yet completed.
.IP \(bu
FT_NO_OUTSTANDING_INVOKATIONS
.br
There are no outstanding invocations.
.PP
Upon successful return with completion_flag having the value
.RB [ FT_COMPLETED_INVOKATION ],
the Invoke-ID and the return object handles associated with the completed
invocation are returned as noted below.
.RE
.TP
.BI op_invoke_id " (Integer)
This parameter is used to return the Invoke-ID of a completed operation.  The
value returned can be matched to those returned by outstanding asynchronous
operations.  It is only valid if the completion_flag parameter returned
.RB [ FT_COMPLETED_INVOKATION ].
.TP
.BI op_api_out " (Private Object (API-Output-Parameters))
This parameter is used to return an object handle for the
API-Output-Parameters associated with the completed invocation.  It is only
valid if the completion_flag parameter returned
.RB [ FT_COMPLETED_INVOKATION ].
.TP
.BI op_ftam_out " (Private Object (FTAM-Output-Parameters))
This parameter is used to return an object handle for the
FTAM-Output-Parameters associated with the completed invocation.  It is only
valid if the completion_flag parameter returned
.RB [ FT_COMPLETED_INVOKATION ]
and op_api_out indicated that the asynchronous operation succeeded.
.TP
.BI op_result_object " (Private Object (Object))
This parameter is used to return an object handle for a possible output object
associated with the completed operation.  It is only valid if the
.I completion_flag
parameter returned
.RB [ FT_COMPLETED_INVOKATION ]
and
.I op_api_out
indicated that the asynchronous operation succeeded and depending on the
definition of the XFTAM function that initiated the asynchronous operation.
.RS
.PP
For example, if the function
.BR ft_frattributes (3)
is invoked in asynchronous mode, this output parameter is used to return a
pointer to the resulting FTAM-Attributes object returned by the read
attributes operation.
.RE
.TP
.BI api_out " (Private Object (API-Output-Parameters))
This parameter is always returned and is a handle for a private object of
class API-Output-Parameters.  It returns API-specific output parameters for
this function call.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR ft_rcvresult ()
returns either
.RB [ FTE_SUCCESS ]
or one of the values listed below under
.RI \(lq ERRORS .\(rq
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP

FTE_VENDOR
.br
FTE_NOTSUP_ASYNC
.br
FTE_SESSION
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ft_fcattributes (3),
.BR XFTAM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ft_rcvresult ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ft_rcvresult ()
is compatible with XFTAM
.[
xftam c415
.]
and implementations based on XFTAM, such as
.IR "Solstice OSI 9.0" ,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" ,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" ,
.IR "SVR 4.2 ONP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only source compatibility is attempted.  Binary compatibility will fail due to
the lack of published and standard symbolic constants.  Any binary
compatibility experienced is a bug and will be removed in the next release.
.PP
See \fBXFTAM\fP(3), \fBXOM\fP(3) and \fISTREAMS\fP(4) for additional
compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom c607
.]
XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ft_rcvresult ()
first appeared in XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XFTAM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
