'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mp_assoc_req.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/11/10 19:40:49 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/10 19:40:49 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mp_assoc_req.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:49  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.TH MP_ASSOC_REQ 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 XMP Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B mp_assoc_req
\- build a management association.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xom.h>
.br
.B #include <xmp.h>
.HP
.BI "MP_status mp_assoc_req("
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.HP
.BI "OM_private_object " context ,
.HP
.BI "OM_object " argument ,
.HP
.BI "OM_private_object *" result_return ,
.HP
.BI "OM_sint32 *" invoke_id_return
.RE
.HP
.BI );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function is used to request the creation of a management association.  The service is defined
as a confirmed service.  A reply is expected.  This operation may be called in asynchronous mode.
Note that when operating in this mode, results may not only be locally discarded (via
.BR mp_abandon (3)),
as may be done with other asynchronous calls.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I session
The management session agains which this operation is performed.  This must be a private object
previously returned from
.BR mp_bind (3).
This session must also have ACM (Automatic Connection Management) disabled.
.TP
.I context
The management context to be used for this operation.  This argument must be a private object.
.TP
.I argument
The information supplied as the argument of an associate operation.  This is a
.RB { MP_C_ASSOC_ARGUMENT }
object with optional ACSE information contained within it.  When called asynchronously, a partially
connected
.I session
object is returned in the
.I result_return
of this function.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.I status
If the function is called synchronously, the value
.RB [ MP_SUCCESS ]
indicates that the action was completed.  If called asynchronously, the value
.RB [ MP_SUCCESS ]
inidicates that the operation was initiated.
.TP
.I result_return
Upon successful completion of a synchronous call, the result is one of the following:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
When the
.BR mp_assoc_req ()
has been accepted or rejected by the remote peer, one instance of the OM class
.RB { MP_C_ASSOC_RESULT }
object is returned.  This object either contains information on why an association was rejected, or
contains a connected
.I session
object if the association was accepted.  This new
.I session
object is in a connected state, and contains the final negotiated ACSE parameters for the new
assocation.
.IP \(bu
An association request can result in an abort being issued by the remote peer.  When the association
request does result in an abort, the result is an
.RB { MP_C_ABORT_ARGUMENT }.
This object contains information pertaining to the abort.  Upon successful completion of an
asynchronous call, a partially connected
.I session
object is returned in the result.
.RE
.TP
.I invoke_id_return
The returned invoke identifier of the management operation when used asynchronously.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a
.B System-Error
or one of the following
.BR Library-Error s:
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_CLASS ]
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_CONTEXT ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_SESSION ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_MISCELLANEOUS ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_MISSING_TYPE ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_SESSION_TERMINATED ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_REPLY_LIMIT_EXCEEDED ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_TIME_LIMIT_EXCEEDED ]
.PD
.PP
This function can return a
.BR Communications-Error .
.PP
Also, this function can return the errors:
.TP
.RB [ MP_NO_WORKSPACE ]
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ MP_INVALID_SESSION ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES ]
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mp_bind (3),
.BR mp_abort (3),
.BR mp_assoc_rsp (3),
.BR XMP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mp_assoc_req ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This function is compatible with
.I Solstice CMIP 9.0
and implementations based on XMP,
.[
xmp
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
This function is source compatible.  Binary compatibility was not attempted.
.PP
See also,
.BR XMP (3),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom osi
.]
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
This function first appeared in XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
XMP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
