'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mp_abandon.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/11/10 19:40:49 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/10 19:40:49 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mp_abandon.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:49  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:15  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:30  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.TH MP_ABANDON 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 XMP Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B mp_abandon
\- abandon locally the result of a pending, asyncrhonously-executing operation/notification
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xom.h>
.br
.B #include <xmp.h>
.HP
.BI "MP_status mp_abandon("
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.HP
.BI "OM_sint32 " invoke_id
.RE
.HP
.BI );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function abandons the result of an outstanding asynchronous function
call.  The function is no longer outstanding after this function returns, and
the result (or the remaining results in case of multiple linked replies) will
never be returned by
.BR mp_receive (3).
.PP
.BR mp_abandon ()
may, but need not, cause the Management Information Service (MIS) Provider to
abandon the outstanding asyncrhonous operation itself (as opposed to simply
discarding the result).  Note that the specified behaviour is a local matter,
and no statement is made about underlying management operations/notifications
that may or may not be abandoned.
.PP
This function can only be called in sychronous mode.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I session
The management session in which the confirmed operation/notification was
requested.  This must be a private object previously returned from
.BR mp_bind (3).
.TP
.I invoke_id
Selects the specific outstanding asyncrhonous oepration submitted via the
.I session
to be terminated.  The outstanding operation may be a non-confirmed service.
In that case the abandon is without effect.  The value
.I invoke_id
must be that which was returned by the function call that initiated the
asynchronous management operation to be abandonned.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.I status
Indicates whether or not the abandoned function succeeded.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a
.B System-Error
or one of the following
.BR Library-Error s:
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_CLASS ]
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_SESSION ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_PROCEDURAL_USE ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_MISCELLANEOUS ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_SESSION_TERMINATED ]
.PD
.PP
This function can return a
.BR Communications-Error .
.PP
Note that the abaondon function is successful even if the operation or
notification to be abandoned does not exist (any longer) or is not confirmed.
The abadon is then without effect.
.PP
Also, this function can return the errors:
.TP
.RB [ MP_NO_WORKSPACE ]
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ MP_INVALID_SESSION ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES ]
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mp_receive (3),
.BR mp_bind (3),
.BR XMP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mp_abandon ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This function is compatible with
.I Solstice CMIP 9.0
and implementations based on XMP,
.[
xmp
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
This function is source compatible.  Binary compatibility was not attempted.
.PP
See also,
.BR XMP (3),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom osi
.]
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
This function first appeared in XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
XMP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
