'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mp_bind.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/11/06 11:43:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/06 11:43:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mp_bind.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:15  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MP_BIND 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B mp_bind
\- Bind \- open an XMP management session.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xom.h>
.br
.B #include <xmp.h>
.HP
.BI "MP_status mp_bind(
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI "OM_object " session ,
.HP
.BI "OM_workspace " workspace ,
.HP
.BI "OM_private_object *" bound_session_return
.RE
.HP
.BI );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I session
specifies a program together with other details of the service required.  This argument may be
either a public object or a private object.  The constant \fBMP_DEFAULT_SESSION\fP may also be used
as the value of this argument, causing a new session to be created with default values for all its
OM attributes.
.TP
.I workspace
Specifies the workspace (obtained from a call to
.BR mp_initialize (3))
that is to be associated with the session.  All function results from management operations using
this session will be returned as private objects in this workspace.  If the Session argument is a
private object, it must be a private object in this workspace.
.TP
.I bound_session_return
Upon successful completion, contains an instance of a mangement session which may be used as an
argument to other functions (e.g.
.BR mp_get (3)).
This will be a new private object if the value of \fIsession\fP was \fBMP_DEFAULT_SESSION\fP or a
public object, otherwise, it will be that supplied as an argument.  In the latter case, the session
provided should nto be already in use.  The function will supply default values for any of the OM
attributes which were not present in the \fIsession\fP instance supplied as an argument.  It will
also set the value of the \fBFile-Descriptor\fP OM attribute (the value will be
\fBNo-Valid-File-Descriptor\fP (\fBMP_NO_VALID_FILE_DESCRIPTOR\fP) if the functionality is not
supported).
.sp
When ACM is disabled via
.BR mp_negotiate (3),
any session bound using
.BR mp_bind ()
is unconnected and may only be used to receive and send ACSE-related primitives (i.e\&. it cannot be
used for CMIP and SNMP primitives).
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mp_bind ()
opens a management session.  It creates a Session OM object describing the session suitable for
supplying to other XMP functions.  A session must be opened before any management interactions can
take place.
.PP
If the OM attribute requestor-Title is specified, only one unconnected session can be opened with
the same value of the OM attribute.  There can be multiple connected or partially connected session
objects with the same requestor-Title.
.PP
To allow for the implementation of automatic connection management, it is undefined as to whether
.BR mp_bind ()
causes any communication with the remote management entity.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When successful,
.BR mp_bind ()
will return a status of
.RB [ MP_SUCCESS ]
and
.I bound_session_return
will contain a bound session;
otherwise, the call fails and a diagnostic error code is returned and
.I bound_session_return
is unchanged.
.PP
Upon success,
.IR bound_session_return
will contain an instance of a mangement session that may be used as an
argument to other functions (e.g.
.BR mp_get (3)).
This will be a new private object if the value of \fIsession\fP was \fBMP_DEFAULT_SESSION\fP or a
public object; otherwise, it will be that supplied as an argument.  In the latter case, the session
provided should nto be already in use.  The function will supply default values for any of the OM
attributes that were not present in the \fIsession\fP instance supplied as an argument.  It will
also set the value of the \fBFile-Descriptor\fP OM attribute (the value will be
\fBNo-Valid-File-Descriptor\fP (\fBMP_NO_VALID_FILE_DESCRIPTOR\fP) if the functionality is not
supported).
.sp
When ACM is disabled via
.BR mp_negotiate (3),
any session bound using
.BR mp_bind ()
is unconnected and may only be used to receive and send ACSE-related primitives (i.e\&. it cannot be
used for CMIP and SNMP primitives).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a System-Error or one of the following Library-Errors: bad-address,
bad-session, bad-title, miscellaneous, not-supported, too-many-sessions.
.PP
This function can return a Communications-Error.
.PP
In addition, this function can return the error constants:
.TP
.RB [ MP_NO_WORKSPACE ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_INVALID_SESSION ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES ]
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The caller should always check the whether the
.I bound_session_return
is the same as the passed in
.I session
and not attempt to delete the
.I session
object if they are the same.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following is an examble of binding a default session:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
OM_workspace myworkspace;

if ((myworkspace = mp_initialize()) == NULL) {
    fprintf(stderr, "could not allocate workspace\n");
    exit(1);
}

OM_private_object mysession;
MP_status error;

if ((error =
     mp_bind(MP_DEFAULT_SESSION, myworkspace,
             &mysession)) != MP_SUCCESS) {
    fprintf(stderr, "%s\n", mp_error_message(error));
    mp_shutdown(myworkspace);
    exit(1);
}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
Another example, using a copy of \fBMP_DEFAULT_SESSION\fP:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
OM_status status;
OM_private_object mydefault;

status = om_copy(MP_DEFAULT_SESSION, myworkspace, &mydefault);
if (status != OM_SUCCESS) {
	exit(1);
}
om_add
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mp_unbind (3),
.BR mp_negotiate (3),
.BR mp_intialize (3),
.BR xmp (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom
.]
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XMP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
