'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mp_negotiate.3.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-29 00:01:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:01:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mp_negotiate.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-29 00:01:55  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:49  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.TH MP_NEGOTIATE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 XMP Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B mp_negotiate
\- Negotiate \- negotiate features of the XMP interface and service.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xom.h>
.br
.B #include <xmp.h>
.HP
.BI "MP_status mp_negotiate(
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI "MP_feature " feature_list [],
.HP
.BI "OM_workspace " workspace
.RE
.HP
.BI );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function negotiates features of the interface; each feature is represented as an Object
Identifier.  Several features are defined and registered within this specification - refer to the
feature list below.  Features may also include management contents packages, vendor extensions, and
new features defined in future versions of this specification.  Features can be negotiated after a
workspace has been initialized, and can be renegotiated any time until the workspace is discarded.
Note that all sessions on a given workspace share the same features.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I feature_list
An ordered sequence of features, each represented by an object identifier and a request value.  The
request value can contain one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.RB [ MP_ACTIVATE ]
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ MP_DEACTIVATE ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_QUERY_STATE ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_QUERY_SUPPORTED ]
.PD
.PP
The sequence is terminated by an object identifier having no components (a length of zero and any
value of the data pointer in the C representation).  The response value is returned upon completion
of the
.BR mp_negotiate ()
invocation.
.PP
In the C binding, the
.I feature_list
argument is a single array of structures of type
.BR MP_feature ,
which is defined as:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
#define MP_ACTIVATE         0
#define MP_DEACTIVATE       1
#define MP_QUERY_STATE      2
#define MP_QUERY_SUPPORTED  3

typedef struct {
    OM_object_identifier feature;
    OM_sint request;
    OM_boolean response;
} MP_feature;
\s+2\fP
.fi
.PP
The following features are defined and registered by this specification:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Management Service Packages
.sp
The CMIS Management Service package and the SNMP Management Service package are specified.
Additional Management Service packages may be specified in the future.
The Object-Identifier associated with this feature is
.BR "{ iso(1) member-national-body(2) bsi(826) disc(0) xopen(1050) xmp-cae(6) common(1) }" .
The Object-Identifier is also represented by the constant
.RB ( MP_COMMON_PKG ).
OM object classes that are common to CMIS and SNMP under XMP are defined under
this arc.
.sp
The Object-Identifier associated with the CMIS Management Service package is:
.BR "{ iso(1) member-national-body(2) bsi(826) disc(0) xopen(1050) xmp-cae(6) cmis(2) }" .
The Object-Identifier is also represented by the constant
.RB ( MP_CMIS_PKG ).
OM object classes that are specific to CMIS are defined under this arc.
.sp
The Object-Identifier associated with the SNMP Management Service package is:
.BR "{ iso(1) member-national-body(2) bsi(826) disc(0) xopen(1050) xmp-cae(6) snmp(3) }" .
The Object-Identifier is also represented by the constant
.RB ( MP_SNMP_PKG ).
OM object classes that are specific to SNMP are defined under this arc.
.IP \(bu
Automatic Connection Management
.sp
This feature provides for automatic establishment and release of the underlying protocol
connection(s) (if any); see
.BR XMP (3).
The Object-Identifier associated with this feature is
.BR "{ iso(1) member-national-body(2) bsi(826) disc(0) xopen(1050) xmp-cae(6) common(1) automatic-connection-management(1) }" .
This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant
.RB ( MP_AUTOMATIC_CONNECTION_MANAGEMENT ).
Automatic Connection Management is enabled by default.
.IP \(bu
Automatic ASN.1 BER Encoding/Decoding
.sp
This feature provides for automatic encoding and decoding of OM class and attribute types using
ASN.1 BER.
.[
x690
.]
The Object-Identifier associated with this feature is
.BR "{ iso(1) member-national-body(2) bsi(826) disc(0) xopen(1050) xmp-cae(6) common(1) automatic-decoding(2) }" .
This Object-Identifier is repesented by the constant
.RB ( MP_AUTOMATIC_DECODING ).
Automatic ASN.1 BER Encoding/Decoding is enabled by default.
.IP \(bu
One FD Per Session
.sp
If this implementation-specific (Solaris Solstice CMIP 8.2) feature is enabled, each session has its
own file descriptor.  If this implemenntation specific feature is disabled, all sessions share the
same file descriptor.  In either case, the file descriptor is set in the
.RB [ MP_FILE_DESCRIPTOR ]
attribute of the session object.
.sp
The Object-Identifier associated with this feature is
.BR "{ iso(1) member-national-body(2) bsi(826) disc(0) xopen(1050) xmp-cae(6) common(1) one-fd-per-session(3) }" .
This Object-Identifer is represented by the constant
.RB ( MP_ON_FD_PER_SESSION ).
.IP \(bu
Any Application Context
.sp
If this implementation-specific (Solaris Solstice CMIP 8.2) feature is enabled, then any application
context can be specified in the
.RB [ MP_APPLICATION_CONTEXT ]
attribute of the
.RB [ MP_ACSE_ARGS ]
attribute object of the session object.  For outgoing associations, the application context is sent
in the associated request PDU.  Only associate request PDUs that contain a valid application context
are accepted by incoming associations.  By default, only the ISO, NMP and TMN application contexts can
be specified in the session object.
.sp
The Object-Identifier associated with this feature is
.BR "{ iso(1) member-national-body(2) bsi(826) disc(0) xopen(1050) xmp-cae(6) common(1) any-appl-context(4) }" .
This Object-Identifier is represented by the constant
.RB ( MP_ANY_APPL_CONTEXT ).

.PP
Management Contents packages are also negotiated as part of the feature list.  Management Contents
packages may be defined by X/Open, by other standards organizations or consortia, by vendors, or by
users.  The X/Open GDMO to XOM Translation Algorithm
.[
xgdmo
.]
provides guidance on how Management Contents packages may be generated.
.PP
Registered Obejct Identifiers representing future features and vendor extensions may also be
included in the feature list for negotiation.
.RE
.TP
.I workspace
The handle to the workspace.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.I status
Indicates whether or not the function was successful.
.TP
.I response
If the function completed successfully, this result contains an ordered list of Boolean values, with
the same number of elements as the
.IR feature_list .
The significance of the values is shown in the following table:
.sp
.TS
box center tab(:);
cb|cb|cbss
l|l|lss.
Request:Response:Meaning
_
Activate:True:T{
Activated.
T}
:False:T{
Cannot activate the feature (or the feature is not supported).
T}
Deactivate:True:T{
Deactivated.
T}
:False:T{
Cannot deactivate feature (or the feature is not supported).
T}
Query-state:True:T{
Activated.
T}
:False:T{
Deactivated (or the feature is not supported).
T}
Query-supported:True:T{
Supported.
T}
:False:T{
Not supported.
T}
Invalid:True:T{
Cannot be returned.
T}
:False:T{
Invalid argument.
T}
.TE
.sp
In the C binding, this result is combined with the
.I feature_list
argument as a single array of strutures of type
.BR MP_feature ,
as defined above.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a
.B System-Error
or one of the following
.BR Library-Error :
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_MISCELLANEOUS ]
.PP
This function can return a
.BR Communications-Error ,
or any management service errors.
.PP
Also, this function can return the error constants:
.TP
.RB [ MP_NO_WORKSPACE ]
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ MP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES ]
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mp_initialize (3),
.BR XMP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mp_negotiate (3)
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This function is compatible with
.I Solstice CMIP 9.0
and implementations based on XMP,
.[
xmp
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
This function is source compatible.  Binary compatibility was not attempted.
.PP
See also,
.BR XMP (3),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom osi
.]
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
This function first appeared in XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
XMP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
