'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mp_release_req.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/11/10 19:40:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/10 19:40:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mp_release_req.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:50  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.TH MP_RELEASE_REQ 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 XMP Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B mp_release_req
\- Release-req \- release XMP management association.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xom.h>
.br
.B #include <xmp.h>
.HP
.BI "MP_status mp_release_req(
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.HP
.BI "OM_private_object " context ,
.HP
.BI "OM_object " argument ,
.HP
.BI "OM_private_object *" result_return ,
.HP
.BI "OM_sint32 *" invoke_id_return
.RE
.HP
.BI );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function is used to request the release of a management association.  The service is defined as
a confirmed service.  A reply is expected.  This operation may be called in asynchronous mode.  Note
that when operating in this mode, results may not ony be locally discarded (via
.BR mp_abandon (3)),
as may be done with other asynchronous calls.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I session
The connected session against which this operation is performed.
This must be a private object previously returned as part of an
.RB [ MP_ASSOC_RESULT ]
or
.RB [ MP_ASSOC_ARGUMENT ].
This session object must have ACM disabled, and it must be in a connected state.
.TP
.I context
The management context to be used for this operation.
This argument must be a private object.
Once a session is connected or partially connected, the precedence rules for common parameter within
the
.I session
and
.I context
objects are different.  Once connected, the responder address and title can not be overridden by the
.I context
object.
.TP
.I argument
The information supplied as the argument of a Release operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.I status
If the function is called synchronously, the value
.RB [ MP_SUCCESS ]
indicates that the action was completed.  If called asynchronously, the value
.RB [ MP_SUCCESS ]
indicates that the operation was initiated.
.TP
.I result_return
Upon successful completion of a synchronous call, the result is one of the following:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
When the release request is accepted by the remote peer, this is indicated by one instance of the
OM class
.RB { MP_C_RELEASE_RESULT }.
The
.RB < MP_REASON >
would be set to
.RB ( MP_NORMAL ).
.IP \(bu
When the release request is rejected by the remote peer, this is indicated by one instance of the OM
class
.RB { MP_C_RELEASE_RESULT }.
The
.RB < MP_REASON >
attribute would be set to either
.RB [ MP_NOT_FINISHED ]
or
.RB [ MP_USER_DEFINED ].
If a release is rejected, the session is left connected to the remote peer.
.RE
.TP
.I invoke_id_return
The returned invoke identifier of the ACSE operation when used asyncrhonously.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a
.B System-Error
or one of the following
.BR Library-Error s:
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_ARGUMENT ]
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_CLASS ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_CONTEXT ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_SESSION ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_MISCELLANEOUS ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_MISSING_TYPE ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_SESSION_TERMINATED ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_REPLY_LIMIT_EXCEEDED ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_TIME_LIMIT_EXCEEDED ]
.PD
.PP
Also, this function can return the error constants:
.TP
.RB [ MP_NO_WORKSPACE ]
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ MP_INVALID_SESSION ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES ]
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mp_abort (3),
.BR mp_abandon (3),
.BR mp_release_rsp (3),
.BR XMP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mp_release_req ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This function is compatible with
.I Solstice CMIP 9.0
and implementations based on XMP,
.[
xmp
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
This function is source compatible.  Binary compatibility was not attempted.
.PP
See also,
.BR XMP (3),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom osi
.]
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
This function first appeared in XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
XMP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
