'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mp_unbind.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/11/10 19:40:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/10 19:40:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mp_unbind.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:50  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.TH MP_UNBIND 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 XMP Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B mp_unbind
\- Unbind \- unbind from a management session.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xom.h>
.br
.B #include <xmp.h>
.HP
.BI "MP_status mp_unbind(
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI "OM_private_object " session
.RE
.HP
.BI );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function terminates the given management session, and makes the argument unavailable for use
with other interface functions (except
.BR mp_bind (3)).
.PP
Note that this means the results of any outstanding asynchronous operations that were initiated
using the given
.I session
can no longer by received.  Any such operations may be terminated prematurely.  For this reason, it
is recommended that all outstanding asynchronous operations are processed using
.BR mp_receive (3)
before
.BR mp_unbind ()
is called.
.PP
The unbound session may be used again as an argument to
.BR mp_bind (3)
possibly after modification by the XOM
.[
xom osi
.]
functions.  When it is no longer required, it must be deleted using the XOM
.[
xom osi
.]
functions.
.PP
The
.B Library-Error
.RB [ MP_E_SESSION_TERMINATE ]
will be returned as the error value to a synchronous function call using the terminated session.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I session
The management session that is to be unbound.  This must be a private object previously returned by
.BR mp_bind (3).
The value of the
.RB [ MP_FILE_DESCRIPTOR ]
OM attribute will be
.RB [ MP_NO_VALID_FILE_DESCRIPTOR ]
if the function succeeds.  The other OM attributes will be unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.I status
Returns the value
.RB [ MP_SUCCESS ]
if the
.I session
was unbound, and returns an error value if not.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a
.B System-Error
or one of the following
.BR Library-Error s:
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_CLASS ]
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_SESSION ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_MISCELLANEOUS ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_SESSION_TERMINATED ]
.PD
.PP
This function does not return a
.BR Communications-Error 
or any management service errors.
.PP
Also, this function can return the error constants:
.TP
.RB [ MP_NO_WORKSPACE ]
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ MP_INVALID_SESSION ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES ]
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mp_bind (3),
.BR XMP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mp_unbind (3)
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This function is compatible with
.I Solstice CMIP 9.0
and implementations based on XMP,
.[
xmp
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
This function is source compatible.  Binary compatibility was not attempted.
.PP
See also,
.BR XMP (3),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom osi
.]
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
This function first appeared in XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
XMP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
