'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mp_wait.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/11/10 19:40:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/10 19:40:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mp_wait.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:50  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.TH MP_WAIT 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 XMP Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B mp_wait
\- Wait \- wait for the availablity of management message(s) from one or more bound sessions.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xom.h>
.br
.B #include <xmp.h>
.HP
.BI "MP_status mp_wait(
.PD 0
.RS
.HP
.BI "MP_waiting_sessions " bound_session_list [],
.HP
.BI "OM_workspace " workspace ,
.HP
.BI "OM_uint32 " timeout
.RE
.HP
.BI );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function is used to suspend the caller until a management operation or notification is
available for a bound session.  A timeout value specified the maximum number of milliseconds to
suspend before returning when no messages are available.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I bound_session_list
An ordered sequence of management session to wait upon.  The last value must evaluate to
.BR NULL .
.TP
.I workspace
Specifies the workspace (obtained from a call to
.BR mp_initialize (3)),
in which an
.B MP_status
object will be created if the return status is other than
.RB [ MP_SUCCESS ].
Session(s) specified in the
.B bound_session_list
do not need to be from this workspace.
.TP
.I timeout
The maximum number of milliseconds to suspend before returning when there are no messages form the
list of Session(s).  A value of zero specifies an indefinite timeout.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.I status
Indicates whether or not the function completed successfully.  A successful completion means that
either a message is available from a Session or that the timeout limit has been reached.  The
.BR mp_receive ()
function must be called to determine whether a message is available.
.TP
.I activated
If the function was completed successfully, this result contains an ordered sequence of boolean
values, with the same number of elements as the
.IR bound_session_list .
If true, each value indicates that the corrresponding session has data waiting in queue.  If false,
each value indicates that the corresponding session does not have data waiting in queue.
.RS
.PP
In the C binding, this result is combined with the
.I bound_session_list
argument as a single array of structures of type
.BR MP_waiting_sessions ,
which is defined as:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
typedef struct {
    OM_private_object bound_session;
    OM_boolean activated;
} MP_waiting_sessions;
\s+2\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a
.B System-Error
or one of the following
.BR Library-Error s:
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_ADDRESS ]
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_SESSION ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_BAD_WORKSPACE ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_MISCELLANEOUS ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_E_SESSION_TERMINATED ]
.PD
.PP
Also, this function can return the error constants:
.TP
.RB [ MP_NO_WORKSPACE ]
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ MP_INVALID_SESSION ]
.TP
.RB [ MP_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES ]
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
It should be noted that, in a
multithreaded environment,
.BR mp_wait ()
may report the presence of a message which will have been processed by another thread by the time
the first thread calls
.BR mp_receive (3)
to process it.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mp_initialize (3),
.BR mp_receive (3),
.BR mp_bind (3),
.BR XMP (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mp_wait (3)
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This function is compatible with
.I Solstice CMIP 9.0
and implementations based on XMP,
.[
xmp
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
This function is source compatible.  Binary compatibility was not attempted.
.IP \(em
Use the value minus one (-1),
.BR 0xffffffff ,
for an zero length timeout().  The function will return immediately and not
block.
This is consistent with the
.I Solstice CMIP 8.2
product descriptions from Sun Microsystems.
.PP
See also,
.BR XMP (3),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM,
.[
xom osi
.]
XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
This function first appeared in XMP.
.[
xmp
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
XMP Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
