'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MS_BIND 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ms_bind
\- establish a session with the Message Store
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xms.h>
.sp
.HP
.BI "MS_status ms_bind(OM_object " bind_argument ", OM_private_object *" bind_result_return ", OM_private_object *" bound_session_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMS
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function establishes a session with the Message Store.  It must be called
after
.BR ms_initialize (3)
and before any other Message Store interface functions are called.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR bind_argument "\0\fBBind-Argument\fP(Object(Bind-Argument))
Specifies information for establishing a session with the Message Store service
provider, together with details of the service required.  This comprises:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B Initiator
.br
Specifies the OR-name of the initiator (i.e., the UA) of this session (or
association) with the MS.
.IP \(em
.B Initiator-Credentials
.br
Specifies the credentials of the initiator for authentication purposes.
.IP \(em
.B Security-Context
.br
Identifies the security context at chiwch the initiator proposes to operate.
.IP \(em
.B Fetch-Restrictions
.br
Specifies the restrictions on entries to be returned as result of a
.BR ms_fetch (3)
function.  These restrictions prevail until the
.BR ms_unbind (3)
function is invoked.
.IP \(em
.B MS-Configuration-Request
.br
If true, specifies the request to obtain information relating to which
auto-actions and optional attributes for which the MS provides support.  If
false, no such request is being made.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.IR status "\0\fBStatus\fR(Status)
Indicates whether the function succeeded or not.
.TP
.IR bind_result_return "\0\fBBind-Result\fP(Object(Bind-Result))
On successful completion, contains one or more of the following:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B Responder-Credentials
.br
Indicates the credentials of the MS.
.IP \(em
.B Available-Auto-Actions
.br
Indicates the set of all possible auto-actions that are supported by the MS
(not just those requested by the client), if the MS-Configuration-Request was
made for the
.BR ms_bind ()
function.
.IP \(em
.B Available-Attribute-Types
.br
Indicates the set of all optional MS attribute-types that are supported by the
MS, if the MS-Configuration-Request was made for the
.BR ms_bind ()
function.
.IP \(em
.B Alert-Indication
.br
Indicates an alert condition has occurred since the last successful
Alert-Indication.
.IP \(em
.B Content-Types-Supported
.br
Indicates a set of object-identifiers defining the content-types of which the
MS has knowledge, if the MS-Configuration-Request was made for the
.BR ms_bind ()
function.
.RE
.TP
.IR bound_session_return "\0\fBBound-Session\fP(Object(Session))
Upon successful completion, contains an instance of the Session class
describing an association between the client and the service.  This value is
then used as an input argument,
.B Session
.RI ( session ),
to other functions (e.g.
.BR ms_fetch (3)).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a System-Error or one of the following Library-Errors:
bad-argument, too-many-sessions, miscellaneous.
.PP
The following Message Store errors may be returned:
authenticaiton-error, no-workspace, unacceptable-security-context,
unable-to-establish-association.
.PP
This function can return a Communications-Error.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ms_bind ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ms_initialize (3),
.BR ms_fetch (3),
.BR ms_unbind (3),
.BR XMS (3),
.BR XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xms (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ms_bind ()
was first part of the
.BR XMS .
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
