'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MS_feature.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008/04/16 17:21:00 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008/04/16 17:21:00 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MS_feature.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008/04/16 17:21:00  brian
.\" - added new manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MS_FEATURE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B MS_feature
\- type definition for requesting features for a session
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xms.h>
.sp
.nf
typedef struct {
    OM_object_identifier    feature;
    OM_boolean              activated;
} MS_feature;
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMS
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A data value of this type is used for requesting the features of a session.
The object identifiers identifying the features defined in this specification
are as follows:
.TP
.B MS Package
.I ms-pkg(1)
The Message Store Package is mandatory.
.TP
.B MS General Attributes Package
.I ms-general-attr-pkg(2)
The Message Store General Attributes Package is mandatory.
.TP
.B MS IM Attributes Package
.I ms-im-attr-pkg(3)
The Message Store Interpersonal Message Attributes Package is optional.
.TP
.B MS FU
.I ms-fu(4)
The Message Store Functional Unit is mandatory.
.TP
.B MS Submission FU
.I ms-submission-fu(5)
The Message Store Submission Functional Unit is optional.
.TP
.B MS Administration FU
.I ms-administration-fu(6)
The Message Store Adminsitration Functional Unit is optional.
.TP
.B MS Alert FU
.I ms-alert-fu(7)
The Message Store Alert Functional Unit is optional.
.PP
The XMS
.[
XMS
.]
specification defined three packages, of which two are mandatory and one is
optional.  Use of optional packages is negotiated through the
.I feature_list
argument of the
.BR ms_initialize (3)
function.  The packages defined are as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
The
.IR "Message Store Package" ,
with Errors, is mandatory.
.IP \(bu
The
.IR "Message Store General Attributes Package" ,
is mandatory.
.IP \(bu
The
.IR "Message Store Interpersonal Messaging Attributes Package" ,
is optional.
.PP
The service makes an optoinal feature available to the client only if the
client requests it.  The client may request a set of features through the
.I feature_list
argument to the
.BR ms_initalize (3)
function: the MS FU, the MS Package and the MS General Attributes Package are
provided by the service as default.
.PP
The following occurs if the client attempts to use a feature that the service
has not made available.  If the MS FU is available and the client invokes a
function in the other FUs, but that FU is unavailable, the
.I feature-unavailable
.RB [ MS_E_FEATURE_UNAVAILABLE ]
error arises.
.PP
After initializing the interface with certain features negotiated, if the
client attempts to invoke a function not previously requested, the
.I feature-no-requested
.RB [ MS_E_FEATURE_NOT_REQUESTED ]
error arises.
.PP
If the client supplies, as a function argument, an object, one of whose
subobjects is an instance of a class not in any of the packages the interface
hass been initialized with, the
.I no-such-class
.RB [ MS_E_NO_SUCH_CLASS ]
error arises.
.PP
The XMS
.[
XMS
.]
specification does not mandate that any OM classes be encodable using
.BR om_encode (3)
and
.BR om_decode (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
.TP
.IR feature "(Object Identifier)
Specifies the feature as an object identifier.  Allowable features are
(prefixed with
.RB [ "joint-iso-ccitt mhs-motis(6) group(6) white(1) api(2) ms(6)" ]):
.RS
.TP \w'\fBms-administration-fu(6)\fR\(em'u
.B ms-pkg(1)
MS Package
.PD 0
.TP
.B ms-general-attr-pkg(2)
MS General Attributes Package
.TP
.B ms-im-attr-pkg(3)
MS IM Attributes Package
.TP
.B ms-fu(4)
MS FU
.TP
.B ms-submission-fu(5)
MS Submisison FU
.TP
.B ms-administration-fu(6)
MS Administration FU
.TP
.B ms-alert-fu(7)
MS Alert FU
.PD
.RE
.TP
.IR activated "(Boolean)
Inidicates whether the associated packate of functional unit is activated.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH RETURN
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH ERRORS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR MS_feature
is implemented directly in C language constructs.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR MS_feature
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XMS (3),
.BR XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xms (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR MS_feature
was first part of the
.BR XMS .
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
