'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ms_initialize.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-16 17:34:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-16 17:34:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ms_initialize.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:22  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MS_INITIALIZE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ms_initialize
\- initialize the interface, returning a workspace
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xms.h>
.sp
.HP
.BI "MS_status ms_initialize(MS_feature " feature_list "[], OM_sint *" max_sessions ", OM_sint *" max_outstanding_operations ", OM_workspace *" workspace_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMS
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function performs the necessary initialization of the interface, including
creating a workspace and making the mandatory features available.  It must be
called before any other Message Store interface functions are called.  If it is
subsequently callled before
.BR ms_shutdown (3),
the result is unspecified.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR feature_list "\0\fBFeature-List\fP(Feature-List)
Specifies the additional features (FUs and packages) requested by the client.
This is an ordered sequence of features, each represented by an object
identifier (see
.BR MS_feature (3)
for the features defined by the XMS
.[
XMS
.]
specification).  The sequence is terminated by an object identifier having no
components (a length of zero and any valud of the data pointer in the C
representation).  Mandatory features are made available even if no features are
requested.
.TP
.IR max_sessions "\0\fBMaximum-Sessions-Requested\fP(Integer)
Specifies the maximum number of simultaneous MS sessions requested by the
client.
.TP
.IR max_outstanding_operations "\0\fBMaximum-Outstanding-Operations-Requested\fP(Integer)
Specifies the maximum number of outstanding asynchronous operations requsted by
the client.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.BR Status "(Status)
Indicates whether the function succeeded or not.
.TP
.IR feature_list "\0\fBActivated\fP(Boolean-List)
If the function completed successfully, contains an ordered sequece of Boolean
values, with the same number of elements as the
.BR Feature-List .
A value of true indicates that the corresponding feature is part of the
interface whereas a value of false indicates that the corresponding feature is
not available.
.sp
In the C binding, this result is combined with the
.B Feature-List
argument as a signal array of structures of type
.BR MS_feature (3).
.TP
.IR max_sessions "\0\fBMaximum-Sessions-In-Effect\fP(Integer)
Indicates the maximum number of simultaneous MS sessions requested or the
maximum number that can be supported by the service, whichever value is lesser.
.sp
In the C binding, the
.B Maximum-Sessions-Requested
argument and the
.B Maximum-Sessions-In-Effect
result of the generic interface are reaslized as the
.I max_sessions
argument.
.TP
.IR max_outstanding_operations "\0\fBMaximum-Outstanding-Operations-In-Effect\fP(Integer)
Indicates the maximum number of outstanding asynchronous operations or the
maximum number that can be supported by the service, whichever value is lesser.
If the service does not support asynchronous operations, then the result
returned is zero; otherwise, it is a positive integer.
.sp
In the C binding, the
.B Maximum-Outstanding-Operations-Requested
argument and the
.B Maximum-Outstanding-Operations-In-Effect
result of the generic interface are realized as the
.I max_outstanding_operations
argument.
.TP
.IR workspace "\0\fBWorkspace\fP(Workspace)
On successful completion, contains a handle to a workspace in which OM objects
can be created and manipulated.
.[
XOM
.]
Objects created in this workspace may be used as arguments to other interface
functions.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can only return a No-Workspace error.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ms_initialize ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ms_shutdown (3),
.BR MS_feature (3),
.BR XMS (3),
.BR XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xms (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ms_initialize ()
was first part of the
.BR XMS .
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
