'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ms_receive_result.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-16 17:34:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-16 17:34:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ms_receive_result.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:22  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MS_RECEIVE_RESULT 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ms_receive_result
\- retrieve the result of an asynchronously exectuted operation
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xms.h>
.sp
.HP
.BI "MS_status ms_receive_result(OM_private_object " session ", OM_uint *" completion_flag_return ", MS_status *" operation_status_return ", OM_private_object *" result_return ", MS_invoke_id *" invoke_id_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMS
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function is used to retrieve the completed result of some operation
previously executed asynchronously.
.PP
The function results include to status indications.  One, called
.BR Status ,
indicates whether this function call itself was successful; it is always
returned.  The other, called
.BR Operation-Status ,
is used to return the statu of the completed asynchronous operation and is only
returned if it exists.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR session "\0\fBSession\fP(Object(Session))
Specifies the MS session over which this function is performed.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.BR Status "(Status)
Indicates whether the function succeeded or not.
.TP
.IR completion_flag_return "\0\fBCompletion-Flag\fP(Unsigned-Integer)
Indicates the status of outstanding asynchronous operations and has one of the
following values:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR completed-operation " {" MS_COMPLETED_OPERATION }
.br
Indicates that at least one outstanding asynchronous operation has completed
and the result for one is made available.
.IP \(em
.BR outstanding-operation " {" MS_OUTSTANDING_OPERATION }
.br
Indicates that there are outstanding asynchronous operations, but none has yet
completed.
.IP \(em
.BR no-outstanding-operation " {" MS_NO_OUTSTANDING_OPERATION }
.br
Indicates that there are no outstanding asynchronous operations.
.RE
.sp
The result is valid if
.B Status
has the value success.
.sp
On successful return with
.B Completion-Flag
having the value
.BR completed-operation ,
the Status and the Invoke-ID of the completed operation are returned.
.TP
.IR operation_status_return "\0\fBOperation-Status\fP(Status)
Indicates whether the asynchronous operation succeeded or not; if not, the
possible error values are those listed for the individual operation in the
corresponding manual page.
.sp
This result is valid if
.B Status
has the value success and the
.B Completion-Flag
has the value
.BR completed-operation .
.TP
.IR result_return "\0\fBResult\fP(Object(*))
Indicates the result of the completed asynchronous operation.  Its valud will
be the constant
.BR Null-Result " {" MS_NULL_RESULT }
if the operation was one that does not return a result.  Otherwise, the OM
object's OM class is that of the result of the asynchronous operation and can
be determined using the OM functions.
.sp
Note: the possible forms of
.I result_return
that
.BR ms_receive_result ()
is required to support is restricted to the result of interface functions
within the FUs supported.
.sp
This result is valid if
.B Status
has the value success and
.B Completion-Flag
has the value
.BR completed-operation .
.TP
.IR invoke_id_return "\0\fBInvoke-ID(Integer)
Indicates the invoke-ID of the completed asynchronous operation whose reulst is
being returned.  This result is valid if
.B Status
has the value success and
.B Completion-Flag
has the value
.BR completed-operation .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a System-Error or one fo the following Library-Errors:
bad-session, feature-unavailable, feature-not-negotiated, no-workspace,
out-of-memory, miscellaneous.
.PP
This function does not report any Message Store errors or a
Communications-Error in the
.B Status
result.  (Any such errors related to the completed asynchronous operation are
reported in
.BR Operation-Status ,
as described above.)
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ms_receive_result ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
All interface functions that can be asynchronously executed,
.BR ms_cancel_submission (3),
.BR ms_check_alert (3),
.BR ms_delete (3),
.BR ms_fetch (3),
.BR ms_list (3),
.BR ms_receive_result (3),
.BR ms_register (3),
.BR ms_register_ms (3),
.BR ms_submit (3),
.BR ms_summarize (3),
.BR ms_wait (3),
.BR XMS (3),
.BR XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xms (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ms_receive_result ()
was first part of the
.BR XMS .
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
