'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ms_register_ms.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-16 17:34:23 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-16 17:34:23 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ms_register_ms.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:23  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MS_REGISTER_MS 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ms_register_ms
\- register or deregister various information with the MS
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xms.h>
.sp
.HP
.BI "MS_status ms_register_ms(OM_private_object " session ", OM_object " register_ms_argument ", MS_invoke_id *" invoke_id_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMS
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function is used to register or deregister various information with the MS.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR session "\0\fBSession\fP(Object(Session))
Specifies the MS session over which this function is performed.
.TP
.IR register_ms_argument "\0\fBRegsiter-MS-Argument\fP(Object(Regsiter-MS-Argument))
Specifies the argument for the
.BR ms_register_ms ()
function.  It comprises:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B Auto-Action-Registration
.br
Specifies a set of auto-action-registrations, one for each auto-action to be
registered.
.IP \(em
.B Auto-Action-Deregistration
.br
Specifies a set of auto-action-deregistrations, one for each auto-action to be
deregistered.
.IP \(em
.B List-Attribute-Defaults
.br
Specifies a default set of attribute-types to indicate which attributes should
be returned for any subsequent
.BR ms_list (3)
function if the entry-information-selection argument is absent.  This value
replaces any previously registered default set.  If absent, no change will be
applied to the registered default set.
.IP \(em
.B Fetch-Attribute-Defaults
.br
Specifies a default set of attribute-types to indicate which attributes should
be returned for any subsequent
.BR ms_fetch (3)
function if the entry-information-selection argument is absent.  Ths value
replaces any previously registered default set.  If absent, no change will be
applied to the registered default set.
.IP \(em
.B Change-Credentials
.br
Specifies the old and new credentials of the end user, if change credentials
was requested.
.IP \(em
.B User-Security-Labels
.br
Specifies the security-labels of the UA, if they are to be changed.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.BR Status "(Status)
Indicates whether the function succeeded or not, if used synchronously; or
whether the function has been initiated, if used asynchronously.
.TP
.IR invoke_id_return "\0\fBInvoke-ID\fP(Integer)
Indicates the invoke-ID of the asynchronous operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
THis function can return a System-Error or one of the following Library-Errors:
bad-argument, bad-session, bad-class, no-such-class, asynchrony-not-supported,
feature-unavailable, feature-not-negotiated, out-of-memory, miscellaneous,
too-many-operations.
.PP
The following Message Store errors may be returned:
attribute-error, auto-action-request-error, invalid-parameter-error,
no-workspace, security-error, service-error.
.PP
This function can return a Communications-Error.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ms_register_ms ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ms_list (3),
.BR ms_fetch (3),
.BR XMS (3),
.BR XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xms (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ms_register_ms ()
was first part of the
.BR XMS .
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
