'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ms_register.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-16 17:34:23 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-16 17:34:23 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ms_register.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:23  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MS_REGISTER 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ms_register
\- modify various parameters held by the MTS regarding delivery of messages to the MS
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xms.h>
.sp
.HP
.BI "MS_status ms_register(OM_private_object " session ", OM_object " register_argument ", MS_invoke_id *" invoke_id_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMS
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function is used to make long-term modification to various parameters held
by the MTS regarding the delivery of messages to the MS.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR session "\0\fBSession\fP(Object(Session))
Specifies the MS session over which this function is performed.
.TP
.IR register_argument "\0\fBRegister-Argument\fP(Object(Register-Argument))
Specifies how to modify (via the
.BR ms_register ()
function) various parameters held by the MTS regarding delivery of messages to
the MS.  These parameters include the following:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B User-Name
.br
Specifies the OR-name of the MS (this corresponds to the OR-name of the UA), if
the user-name is to be changed.
.IP \(em
.B User-Address
.br
Specifies the OR-address of the MS (this corresponds to the OR-name of the UA),
if it is required by the MTS and if it is to be changed.
.IP \(em
.B Deliverable-Encoded-Information-Types
.br
Specifies the encoded-information-types that the MTS shall permit to appear in
messages delivered to the MS, if they are to be changed.  The MTS shall reject
as undeliverable any message for an MS for which the MS is not registered to
accept delivery of all of the encoded-information-types of the message.  Note
that the MS may register to receive the undefined encoded-information-type.
This argument,
.BR Deliverable-Encoded-Information-Types ,
also indicates the possible encoded-information-types to which implicit
conversion can be performed.
.IP \(em
.B Deliverable-Maximum-Content-Length
.br
Specifies the content-length, in octets, of the longest content message that
the MTS shall permit to appear in messages being delivered to the MS, if it is
to be changed.  The MTS shall reject as undeliverable any message for an MS for
which the MS is not registered to accept delivery of messages of its size.
.IP \(em
.B Default-Delivery-Controls
.br
Specifies default delivery controls that are registered using the
.BR ms_register ()
function.  The default delivery control arguments shall not admit messages
whose delivery are prohibited by the prevailing registered values of the
.B Deliverable-Encoded-Information-Types
argument, the
.B Deliverable-Content-Types
argument or the
.B Delivery-Maximum-Content-Length
argument.
.IP \(em
.B Delivery-Content-Types
.br
Specifies the content-types that the MTS shall permit to appear in messages
delivered to the MS, if they are to be changed.  The MTS shall reject as
undeliverable any message for an MS for which the MS is not registered to
accept delivery of all of the content-types of the message.  Note that the MS
may register to receive the
.B undefined
content-type.
.IP \(em
.B Labels-And-Redirections
.br
Specifies one or both of the following:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
the OR-name of an alternate recipient to which messages are to be redirected,
if this is to be changed.
.IP \(em
the security-labels of the UA, if they are to be changed.
.RE
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.BR Status "(Status)
Indicates whether the function succeeded or not, if use synchronously; or
whether the function has been initiated, if used asynchronously.
.TP
.IR invoke_id_return "\0\fBInvoke-ID\fP(Integer)
The invoke-ID of the asynchronous operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a System-Error or one of the following Library-Errors:
bad-argument, bad-session, asynchrony-not-supported, feature-unavailable,
feature-not-negotiated, no-workspace, out-of-memory, miscellaneous,
too-many-operations.
.PP
The following Message Store errors may be returned:
register-rejected.
.PP
This function can return a Communications-Error.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ms_register ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XMS (3),
.BR XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xms (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ms_register ()
was first part of the
.BR XMS .
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
