'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MS_SUMMARIZE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ms_summarize
\- summarize counts of selected entries in an information base
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xms.h>
.sp
.HP
.BI "MS_status ms_summarize(OM_private_object " session ", OM_object " summarize_argument ", OM_private_object *" summarize_result_return ", MS_invoke_id *" invoke_id_return );
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XMS
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function is used to obtain summary counts of selected entries in an
information base; also, a count of entries selected and their lowest and
highest sequence-numbers are also returned.  Zero or more individual summaries
may be requested.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR session "\0\fBSession\fP(Object(Session))
Specifies the MS session over which the function is performed.
.TP
.IR summarize_argument "\0\fBSummarize-Argument\fP(Object(Summarize-Argument))
Specifies the argument for the
.BR ms_summarize ()
function.  It comprises:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B Information-Base-Type
.br
Specifies which information base type is being addressed (see Section 6.3.1 in
reference X.413).
.[
x413
.]
Its value must be one fo the following:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR stored-messages " {" MS_STORED_MESSAGES }
.br
Specifies the repository containing entries for delivered messages and reports
(see Section 6.4 in reference X.413).
.[
x413
.]
.IP \(em
.BR inlog " {" MS_INLOG }
.IP \(em
.BR outlog " {" MS_OUTLOG }
.RE
.IP \(em
.B Selector
.br
Specifies the set of criteria for determinng the entries which are to be
summarized.
.IP \(em
.B Summary-Requests
.br
Specifies the sequence of Attribute-Types for which summaries are requested.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.TP
.BR Status "(Status)
Indicates whether the function succeeded or not, if use synchronously; or
whether the function has been initiated, if used asynchronously.
.TP
.IR summarize_result_return "\0\fBResult\fP(Object(Summary-Result))
On successful completion of a synchronous call, contains one or more of the
following:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B Next
.br
Returned in the case where the number of entries selected would have been
greater if it were not for the limit specified in the selector.  This would
then give the sequence-number for the next entry that sould have been selected.
.IP \(em
.B Count
.br
Indicates the number of entries that matched the selection criteria.
.IP \(em
.B Span
.br
Indicates the range of sequence-numbers of entries that matched the selection
criteria.  It is absent if there were no such entries (i.e,
.B Count
value is zero).
.IP \(em
.B Summaries
.br
A sequential list of summaries; one for each summary-request.  The summaries
are returned in the order that they were requested in the Summary function.
.RE
.TP
.IR invoke_id_return "\0\fBInvoke-ID\fP(Integer)
Indicates the invoke-ID of the asynchronous operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
This function can return a System-Error or one of the following Libary-Errors:
bad-argument, bad-session, bad-class, no-such-class, asynchrony-not-supported,
feature-unavailable, feature-not-negotiated, out-of-memory, miscellaneous,
too-many-operations.
.PP
The following Message Store errors may be returned:
attribute-error, invalid-parameter-error, no-workspace, range-error,
security-error, sequence-number-error, service-error.
.PP
This function can return a Communications-Error.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR ms_summarize ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR XMS (3),
.BR XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This implementation is compatible with other implementations of the XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XMS.
.[
XMS
.]
Conformance is validated using an
.BR autotest (1)
script and the
.BR test-xms (8)
test suite executable.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ms_summarize ()
was first part of the
.BR XMS .
.[
XMS
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XOM
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TA
