'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: om_copy_value.3.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-29 00:01:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:01:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: om_copy_value.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-29 00:01:55  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:23  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:50  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:31  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH OM_COPY_VALUE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B om_copy_value
\-  place or replace a string in one private object with a copy of a string in another private object
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XOM.
.[
xom osi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xom.h>
.PP
.B OM_return_code
.PD 0
.HP
om_copy_value(
.RS 4
.HP
.BI "const OM_private_object " source ,
.HP
.BI "const OM_type " source_type ,
.HP
.BI "const OM_value_position " source_value_position ,
.HP
.BI "OM_private_object " destination ,
.HP
.BI "OM_type " destination_type ,
.HP
.BI "OM_value_position " destination_value_position
.RE
.HP
.RB );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I source
The source, which remains accessible.
.TP
.I source_type
Identifies the type of the attribute, one of whose values is to be copied.
.TP
.I source_value_position
The position within the above attribute of the value to be copied.
.TP
.I destination
The destination, which remains accessible.
.TP
.I destination_type
Identifies the type of the attribute, one of whose values is to be placed or
replaced.
.TP
.I destination_value_position
The position within the above attribute of the value to be placed or replaced.
.sp
If the value position exceeds the number of values present in the destination
attribute, the argument is taken to be equal to that number.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR om_copy_value ()
operation places or replaces an attribute value in one private object, the
.IR destination ,
with a copy of an attribute value in another private object, the
.IR source .
.PP
The source value shall be a string.  If the source value does not have the
syntax
.BR String(*) ,
the error code wrong-value-syntax
.RB [ OM_WRONG_VALUE_SYNTAX ]
shall be returned.
.PP
If the value of the destination attribute exists, the resulting value shall
have the syntax of the replaced value.  If the source value does not have the
same syntax as the replaced value, the error code wrong-value-syntax
.RB [ OM_WRONG_VALUE_SYNTAX ]
shall be returned.
.PP
If the value of the destination attribute does not exist, the new value shall
have the syntax of the source value.  If the syntax of the source value is not
compatible with the description of the destination attribute, the error code
wrong-value-syntax
.RB [ OM_WRONG_VALUE_SYNTAX ]
shall be returned.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, the zero value of
.RB [ OM_SUCCESS ]
is returned. Otherwise, a non-zero diagnostic error value is returned.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR om_copy_value ()
fails, it returns a non-zero error code, as follows:
.TP
.RB [ OM_FUNCTION_DECLINED ]
The function does not apply to the object to which it is addressed.
.TP
.RB [ OM_FUNCTION_INTERRUPTED ]
The function was aborted by an external force (for example, a keystroke,
designated for this purpose, at a user interface).
.TP
.RB [ OM_MEMORY_INSUFFICIENT ]
The service cannot allocate the main memory it needs to complete the function.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NETWORK_ERROR ]
The service could not successfully employ the network upon which its
implementation depends.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NO_SUCH_OBJECT ]
A purported object is nonexistent or the purported handle is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NO_SUCH_TYPE ]
A purported type identifier is undefined.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NOT_PRESENT ]
An attribute value is absent, not present.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NOT_PRIVATE ]
An object is public, not private.
.TP
.RB [ OM_PERMANENT_ERROR ]
The service encountered a permanent difficulty other than those denoted by
other return codes.
.TP
.RB [ OM_POINTER_INVALID ]
In the C inteface, an invalid pointer was supplied as a function argument or as
the receptacle for a function result.
.TP
.RB [ OM_SYSTEM_ERROR ]
The service could not successfully employ the operating system upon which its
implementation depends.
.TP
.RB [ OM_TEMPORARY_ERROR ]
The service encountered a temporary difficulty other than those denoted by
other return codes.
.TP
.RB [ OM_WRONG_VALUE_LENGTH ]
An attribute has, or would have, a value that violates the value length
constraints in force.
.TP
.RB [ OM_WRONG_VALUE_SYNTAX ]
An attribute has, or would have, a value whose syntax is not permitted.
.TP
.RB [ OM_WRONG_VALUE_TYPE ]
An object has, or would have, an attribute whose type is not permitted.
.PP
Other arguments passed to or returned by the function are unaffected.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR om_copy_value ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR om_copy_value ()
is compatible with
.IR "Solstice OSI 8.0 "  to " 9.0
and implementations based on
XOM,
.[
xom osi
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Note that many add-on OSI packages for popular UNIX SVR 4.2 based releases
provided the XOM interface and the associated set of X/Open, IEEE and ISO
standard interfaces.
.IP \(em
The function is source compatible only.  Binary compatibility was not
attempted.
.PP
See also,
.BR XOM (3),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM.
.[
xom osi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR om_copy_value ()
first appeared in XOM.
.[
xom osi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the 
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
XOM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
