'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: om_copy.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/11/06 11:43:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/06 11:43:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: om_copy.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/06 11:43:11  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:31  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH OM_COPY 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B om_copy
\- Create a private copy of an existing private XOM object.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xom.h>
.\".HP
.\".BI "OM_return_code om_copy(const OM_private_object " original ", const OM_workspace " workspace ", OM_private_object *" copy );
.HP
.B OM_return_code \fRom_copy(
.PD 0
.RS
.PP
.BI "const OM_private_object " original \fR,
.PP
.BI "const OM_workspace " workspace \fR,
.PP
.BI "OM_private_object *" copy
.PP
.B \fR);
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP \w'\fIworkspace\fR\(em'u
.I original
The original XOM object, which remains accessible.
.TP
.I workspace
The workspace in which the copy is to be created.  The original's class shall
be in a package associated with this workspace.
.TP
.I copy
A pointer to the object to be returned.  The returned object will only be
accessible if the call is successful.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This function creates a new private object, the
.IR copy ,
that is an exact, but independent copy of an existing private object, the
.IR original .
The function is recursive in that copying the original also copies its
subobjects.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, the zero value of
.RB [ OM_SUCCESS ]
is returned and the new copy of the original is returned in the object pointed to by
.IR copy .
Otherwise, a non-zero diagnostic error value is returned and
.I copy
is unaffected.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR om_copy ()
fails, it returns a non-zero error code, as follows:
.TP \w'[\fBOM_FUNCTION_INTERRUPTED\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ OM_FUNCTION_INTERRUPTED ]
The function must block to perform its action and the wait was interrupted by
a signal.
.TP
.RB [ OM_MEMORY_INSUFFICIENT ]
Memory could not immediately be allocated.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NETWORK_ERROR ]
A communications facility is required to effect the copy and an unrecoverable
communications error occurred on that facility.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NO_SUCH_CLASS ]
The object class of the private object,
.IR original ,
does not exist in the workspace,
.IR workspace .
.TP
.RB [ OM_NO_SUCH_OBJECT ]
The private object,
.IR original ,
does not exist.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NO_SUCH_WORKSPACE ]
The workspace,
.IR workspace ,
does not exist.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NOT_PRIVATE ]
The passed in object,
.IR original ,
is not a private object (i.e\&. it is either a server or client allocated
public object: SPUB or CPUB; instead of a private object).
.TP
.RB [ OM_PERMANENT_ERROR ]
.TP
.RB [ OM_POINTER_INVALID ]
.TP
.RB [ OM_SYSTEM_ERROR ]
.TP
.RB [ OM_TEMPORARY_ERROR ]
.TP
.RB [ OM_TOO_MANY_VALUES ]
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR om_create (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR om_copy ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR om_copy ()
is compatible with XOM.
.[
xom
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM.
.[
xom
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR om_copy ()
first appeared in XOM.
.[
xom
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for the OpenSS7 XOM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4



