'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: OM_descriptor.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/11/06 11:43:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/06 11:43:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: OM_descriptor.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:11  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:31  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH OM_DESCRIPTOR 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B OM_descriptor
\- Descriptor \- type definition for describing an attribute type and value.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xom.h>
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct OM_descriptor_struct {
        OM_type type;
        OM_syntax syntax;
        union OM_value value;
} OM_descriptor;\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.TP
.I type
identifies the type of the attribute value.
.TP
.I syntax
identifies the syntax of the attribute value.  Note that boolean
conditions of the attribute value are coded into the high bits of this member.
.TP
.I value
identifies the attribute value.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A data value of this type is a descriptor, which embodies an attribute value.
A sequence of descriptors (an array in C) can represent all the values of all
the attributes of an object, and is the representation called a Public Object.
A descriptor has the following components:
.TP
.IR Type \%\0(Type)
Identifies the type of the attribute value.
.TP
.IR Syntax \%\0(Syntax)
Identifies the syntax of the attribute value.
.sp
In the C interface,
.I Long-String
to
.IR Private ,
below,
are encoded in the high-order bits of this structure member.  The syntax should
always be masked with the constant,
.RB ( OM_S_SYNTAX ),
because of this.  The macros
.BR OM_SYNTAX ()
and
.BR OM_SYNTAX_ASSIGN ()
are provided for this purpose.
.TP
.IR Long-String \%\0(Boolean)
True, if, and only if, the descriptor is service-generated and the length of
the value is greater than an implementation-defined limit.
.sp
In the C interface, this component occupies bit 15 (0x8000) of the
.I syntax
member and is represented by the constant
.RB ( OM_S_LONG_STRING ).
.sp
The macro,
.BR OM_IS_LONG_STRING (),
may be used to test this flag.
.TP
.IR No-Value \%\0(Boolean)
Only true if the descriptor is service-generated and the value is not present
(because
.B exclude-values
or
.B exclude-multiples
was set in the call to
.IR Get ()).
.sp
In the C interface, this component occupies bit 14 (0x4000) of the
.I syntax
member and is represented by the constant
.RB ( OM_S_NO_VALUE ).
.sp
The macro,
.BR OM_HAS_VALUE (),
may be used to test this flag.
.TP
.IR Local-String \%\0(Boolean)
Only significant if the
.IR Syntax " is " String(*) .
True if, and only if, the string is represented by an implementation-defined
local character set.  The local character set may be more amenable for use as
keyboard inut or display output than the non-local character set, and may
include specific treatment of line terminal sequences.  Certain interface
functions may convert information in string syntaxes to or from the local
representation, which may result in a loss of information.
.sp
In the C interface, this component occupies bit 13 (0x2000) of the
.I syntax
member and is represented by the constant
.RB ( OM_S_LOCAL_STRING ).
.sp
The macro,
.BR OM_IS_LOCAL_STRING (),
may be used to test this flag, and,
.BR OM_SET_LONG_STRING (),
to set it.
.TP
.IR Service-Generated \%\0(Boolean)
True, if, and only if, the descriptor is service-generated and the first
descriptor of a public object, or the defined part of a private object.
.sp
In the C interface, this component occupies bit 12 (0x1000) of the
.I syntax
member and is represented by the constant
.RB ( OM_S_SERVICE_GENERATED ).
.sp
The macro,
.BR OM_IS_SERVICE_GENERATED (),
may be used to test this flag.
.TP
.IR Private \%\0(Boolean)
True if, and only if, the descriptor in the service-generated public object
contains a reference to the handle of a private subobject, or in the defined
part of a private object.
.sp
(Note: This applies only when the descriptor is service-generated.  The client
need not set this bit in a client-generated descriptor containing a reference
to a private object.)
.sp
In the C interface, this component occupies bit 11 (0x0800) of the
.I syntax
member and is represented by the constant
.RB ( OM_S_PRIVATE ).
.TP
.IR Value \%\0(Value)
The attribute value.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR OM_type (3),
.BR OM_syntax (3),
.BR OM_value (3),
.BR XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR OM_descriptor
is compatible with XOM.
.[
xom
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM.
.[
xom
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR OM_descriptor
first appeared in XOM.
.[
xom
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for the OpenSS7 XOM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4



