'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: om_get,v 0.9.2.2 2007/11/10 19:40:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/10 19:40:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: om_get,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:50  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:31  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH OM_GET 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B om_get
\- create a public copy of all or particular parts of a private object
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XOM.
.[
xom osi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xom.h>
.PP
.BR OM_return_code
.PD 0
.HP
om_get(
.RS
.HP
.BI "const OM_private_object " original ,
.HP
.BI "const OM_exclusions " exclusions ,
.HP
.BI "const OM_type_list " included_types ,
.HP
.BI "const OM_boolean " local_strings ,
.HP
.BI "const OM_value_position " initial_value ,
.HP
.BI "const OM_value_position " limiting_value ,
.HP
.BI "OM_public_object *" copy ,
.HP
.BI "OM_value_position *" total_number
.RE
.HP
.RB );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR original "\0\fBOriginal\fP(Private Object)
The original, which remains accessible.
.TP
.IR exclusions "\0\fBExclusions\fP(Exclusions)
Explicit requests for zero or more exclusions, each of which reduces the copy
to a prescribed portion of the original.  The exclusions apply to the
attributes of the object but not to those of its subobjects.
.RS
.PP
Apart from
.BR no-exclusions ,
each value is chosen from the following list.  When multiple exclusions are
specified each is applied in the order in which it appears in the list, with
lower numbered exclusions having precedence over higher numbered exclusions.
If, after the application of an exclusion, that portion of the object would not
be returned, no further exclusions need be applied to that portion.
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B exclude-all-but-these-types
.br
The copy includes descriptors encompassing only attributes of sepcified types.
This exclusion provides a means for determining the values of specified
attributes, as well as the syntaxes of those values.
.IP \(bu
.B exclude-multiples
.br
The copy includes a single descriptor for each attribute (actually) having two
or more values, rather than one descriptor for each value.  Each such
descriptor contains no attribute value and the
.B No-Value
bit of the syntax component is set.
.sp
If the attribute (actually) has values of two or more syntaxes, the descriptor
identifies one of those syntaxes, but which one is unspecified.
.sp
This exclusion provides a means for discerning the presence of multi-valued
attribtues without simultaneously getting their values.
.IP \(bu
.B exclude-all-but-these-values
.br
The copy includes descriptors encompassing only values at specified positions
within an attribute.
.sp
When used in conjunction with the
.B exclude-all-but-these-types
exclusion, this exclusion provides a means for determining the values of a
specified attribute, as well as the syntaxes of those values, one or more but
not all attributes at a time.
.IP \(bu
.B exclude-values
.br
The copy includes a single dsecriptor for each attribute value, but the
descriptor does not contain the value, and the
.B No-Value
bit of the syntax component is set.
.sp
This exclusion provides a means for determining an object's composition, that
is, the type and syntax of each of its attribute values.
.IP \(bu
.B exclude-subobjects
.br
The copy includes, for each value whose syntax is object, a descriptor
containing an object handle fore the original private subobject, rahter than a
public copy of it.  This handle thus makes that subobject accessible for use in
subsequent function calls.
.sp
This exclusion provides a means for examining an object one level at a time.
.IP \(bu
.B exclude-descriptors
.br
When this exclusion is specified, no descriptors are returned and the copy
result is not present.  The
.I total_number
result reflects the number of descriptors that would have been returned by
applying the other inclusion and exclusion specifications.
.sp
This exclusion provides an attribute analysis capability.  For instance, the
total number of values in a multi-valued attribute can be determined by
specifying an inclusion of the specific attribute type, and exclusions of
.BR exclude-all-but-these-types ,
.BR exclude-subobjects " and
.BR exclude-descriptors .
.TP
.B Note:
The
.B exclude-all-but-these-values
exclusion affects the choice of descriptors, while the
.B exclude-values
exclusion affects the composition of descriptors.
.RE
.TP
.IR included_types "\0\fBInclude Types\fP(Type List)
Relevant if, and only if, the
.B exclude-all-but-these-types
exclusion is requested, in which case it identifies the types of the attributes
to be included in the copy (provided that they appear in the original).
.TP
.IR local_strings "\0\fBLocal Strings\fP(Boolean)
If true, indicates that all
.B String(*)
values included in the copy are to be translated into the
implementation-defined local character set representation (which may entail the
loss of some information).
.TP
.IR initial_value "\0\fBInitial Value\fP(Value Position)
Relevant if, and only if, the
.B exclude-all-but-these-values
exclusion is requested, in which case it identifies the position within each
attribute of the first value to be included in the copy.
.sp
If it is
.B all-values
or exceeds the number of values present in an attribute, the argument is taken
to be equal to that number.
.TP
.IR limiting_value "\0\fBLimiting Value\fP(Value Position)
Relevant if, and only if, the
.B exclude-all-but-these-values
exclusion is requested, in which case it identifies the position within each
attribute one beyond that of the last value to be included in the copy.  If
this argument is not greater than the Initial Value argument, no values are
included (and hence no descriptors are returned).
.sp
If it is
.B all-values
or exceeds the number of values present in an attribute, the argument is taken
to be equal to that number.
.TP
.IR copy "\0\fBCopy\fP(Public Object)
The copy.  This result is present if, and only if, the Return Code result is
success
.RB [ OM_SUCCESS ]
and the
.B exclude-descriptors
exclusion is not specified.
.sp
The space occupied by the public object, and every attribute value that is a
string, is service-provided.  If the client alters any portion of that space,
the effect upon the service's subsequent behavior is unspecified.
.TP
.IR total_number "\0\fBTotal Number\fP(Value Position)
The number of attribute descriptors returned in the public object, but not in
any of its subobjects, based on the inclusion and exclusion arguments
specified.  If the
.B exclude-descriptors
exclusion is specified, no Copy result is returned and the Total Number result
reflects the actual number of attribute descriptors that would have been
returned based on the reminaing inclusion and exclusion values.
.RS
.TP
.B Note:
The total includes only the attribute descriptors in the Copy result.  It
excludes the special descriptor signalling the end of a public object.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR om_get ()
operation creates a new public object that is a copy of an existing private
object, the
.IR original .
The client may request certain
.IR exclusions ,
each of which reduces the copy to a portion of the
.IR original .
The
.I copy
is an independent copy unless the use of
.B exclude-subobjects
results in the sharing of subobjects.
.PP
One exclusion is always requested implicitly.  For each attribute value in the
original that is a string whose length exceeds an implementation-defined
number, the copy includes a descriptor that omits the elements (but not the
length) of the string; the Elements component of the String component of the
Value component of the descriptor is
.BR elements-unspecified ,
and the
.B Long-String
bit of the Syntax component is set to true.
.PP
.B Note:
The client can access long values by means of the
.BR om_read (3)
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, the zero value of
.RB [ OM_SUCCESS ]
is returned. Otherwise, a non-zero diagnostic error value is returned.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR om_get ()
fails, it returns a non-zero error code, as follows:
.TP
.RB [ OM_FUNCTION_INTERRUPTED ]
The function was aborted by an external force (for example, a keystroke,
designated for this purpose, at a user interface).
.TP
.RB [ OM_MEMORY_INSUFFICIENT ]
The service cannot allocate the main memory it needs to complete the function.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NETWORK_ERROR ]
The service could not successfully employ the network upon which its
implementation depends.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NO_SUCH_EXCLUSION ]
A purported exclusion identifier is undefined.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NO_SUCH_OBJECT ]
A purported object is nonexistent or the purported handle is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NO_SUCH_TYPE ]
A purported type identifier is undefined.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NOT_PRIVATE ]
An object is public, not private.
.TP
.RB [ OM_PERMANENT_ERROR ]
The service encountered a permanent difficulty other than those denoted by
other return codes.
.TP
.RB [ OM_POINTER_INVALID ]
In the C inteface, an invalid pointer was supplied as a function argument or as
the receptacle for a function result.
.TP
.RB [ OM_SYSTEM_ERROR ]
The service could not successfully employ the operating system upon which its
implementation depends.
.TP
.RB [ OM_TEMPORARY_ERROR ]
The service encountered a temporary difficulty other than those denoted by
other return codes.
.TP
.RB [ OM_WRONG_VALUE_TYPE ]
An object has, or would have, an attribute whose type is not permitted.
.PP
Other arguments passed to or returned by the function are unaffected.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR om_get ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR om_get ()
is compatible with
.IR "Solstice OSI 8.0 "  to " 9.0
and implementations based on
XOM,
.[
xom osi
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Note that many add-on OSI packages for popular UNIX SVR 4.2 based releases
provided the XOM interface and the associated set of X/Open, IEEE and ISO
standard interfaces.
.IP \(em
The function is source compatible only.  Binary compatibility was not
attempted.
.PP
See also,
.BR XOM (3),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM.
.[
xom osi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR om_get ()
first appeared in XOM.
.[
xom osi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the 
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
XOM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
