'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: OM_object.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/11/10 19:40:48 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/10 19:40:48 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: OM_object.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:48  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:11  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:31  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH OM_OBJECT 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B OM_object
\- Object \- XOM type definition for a handle to either a private or a public object.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xom.h>
.HP
.B typedef OM_descriptor *OM_object;
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A data value of this data type represents an object, public or private.  It is
an ordered sequence of one or more instances of the
.I Descriptor
data type.  See the
.IR Private\0Object ,
.BR OM_private_object (3),
and
.IR Public\0Object ,
.BR OM_public_object (3),
data types for constraints upon that sequence.
.PP
In the C interface, an object is represented by a pointer to (or into) and
array of
.BR OM_descriptor (3)
elements.
.PP
There are three types of objects, from a service implementation's point of
view:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.BR private\0objects \%\0(PRI)
.br
These are represented in an unspecified, private way in storage allocated by
the service.  The client is only ablet oa ccess these objects by calling OM
functions.
.IP \(bu
.BR service\-generated\0public\0objects \%\0(SPUB)
These are represented as arrays of (OM_descriptor), in storage allocated by
the service.  String values are also allocated in this way.  The client may
not modify any of this store.  For example, it must not make assignments to
any of the fields of the descriptors.
.IP \(bu
.BR client\-generated\0public\0objects \%\0(CPUB)
These are represented as arrays of (OM_descriptor), in storage allocated by
the client.  The client is responsible for management of this store and may
freely modify it.
.PP
Implementations also need to discover whether a PRI or SPUB belongs to their
workspace, or to some other.  These objects are allocated by a particular
service implementation, in a workspace assocaitedw with that service.  Note
that:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
the internal representation (service view) and external representation (client
view) of a CPUB are completely identical,
.IP \(bu
the external representaiton of a CPUB and a SPUB are identical,
.IP \(bu
the internal representation of a SPUB and a PRI must provide additional
information in order to be able to call the OM function implementation
associated with each SPUB and PRI.
.PP
The third statement is acheived by basing the internal representation of all
service-generated objects on a two-element descriptor array.  These are
referred to as the
.IR -1st " and " 0th
elements.
The external representation (that is, the pointer to the client by
.BR om_create (3),
etc.) points to the second,
.IR 0th ,
descriptor.  The client is not aware of the existence of the first,
.IR -1st ,
descriptor.
Note: In the case of CPUBs and SPUBs there will usually be additional
descriptors following the
.IR 0th ,
which are visible to the client.
Then a service implementation can distinguish the type of object using the
.B type
and
.B syntax
components of the
.I 0th
descriptor, as follows:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
Inspect the
.B type
component.  If it is
.RB ( OM_PRIVATE_OBJECT ),
the object is a PRI.  Otherwise, it is a SPUB or CPUB.
.IP 2.
Inspect the
.RB ( OM_S_SERVICE_GENERATED )
bit.  If this is set, the object is a SPUB.  Otherwise, it is a CPUB.
.PP
If it is a PRI or a SPUB, the associated workspace pointer is stored in the
.B value.string.elements
component of the
.I -1st
descriptor, and the correct function implementation can be called using this.
.PP
This means the storage for the workspace structure, and the function jump
table, must remain allocated after the workspace has been shut down.  In order
to eventually reclaim this storage, implementations may use a reference count
of the number of service-generated descriptor arrays which have been allocated
by
.BR om_get (3)
and not subsequently free by
.BR om_delete (3).
.PP
Implementations need not, but may, allocate storage for the other components
of the
.I -1st
descriptor (that is,
.BR type ", " syntax " and " value.string.length )
of PRIs and SPUBs.  THey may, but need not, allocate storage for the
.B value
component of the
.I 0th
descriptor of a PRI.  They must allocate the whole of the
.I 0th
descriptor of a SPUB, since this forms part of the data returned to the
client.  Clients do not allocate the
.I -1st
descriptor of a CPUB, and the service must not refer to it.
.PP
Implementations may attach arbitrary private data in storage before or after
the defined region of a PRI, and before the defined region of a SPUB.  They
may use this as they wish.
.PP
Notes:
.PP
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
A service-generated public object might reference private subobjects, the
handles of which are no longer valid, for example, when the corresponding
parent private object has been deleted.  In order to determine whether a
subobject in a service-generated public object is private, for example, when
the service deletes a service-generated public object, the
.RB ( OM_S_PRIVATE )
bit in the public object's descriptor having the reference might be inspected.
.IP 2.
If a service-generated public object has public subobjects (for example, due
to an
.BR om_get (3)
with no exclusions), the
.I -1st
descriptor will exist and the
.B OM_S_SERVICE_GENERATED
bit will be set on all public subobjects.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR OM_descriptor (3),
.BR OM_public_object (3),
.BR OM_private_object (3),
.BR XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR OM_object
is compatible with XOM.
.[
xom osi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM.
.[
xom osi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR OM_object
first appeared in XOM.
.[
xom osi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 XOM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4



