'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: om_write,v 0.9.2.2 2007/11/10 19:40:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/10 19:40:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: om_write,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:50  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:31  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH OM_WRITE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B om_write
\-  write a segment of a string into a private object
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XOM.
.[
xom osi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xom.h>
.PP
.BR OM_return_code
.PD 0
.HP
om_write(
.RS
.HP
.BI "const OM_private_object " subject ,
.HP
.BI "const OM_type " type ,
.HP
.BI "const OM_value_position " value_position ,
.HP
.BI "OM_syntax " syntax ,
.HP
.BI "const OM_string_length *" string_offset ,
.HP
.BI "OM_string " elements
.RE
.HP
.RB );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.IR subject "\0\fBSubject\fP(Private Object)
The subject, which remains accessible.
.TP
.IR type "\0\fBType\fP(Type)
Identifies the type of the attribute, one of whose values is to be written.
.TP
.IR value_position "\0\fBValue Position\fP(Value Position)
The position within the above attribute of the value to be written.  The value
position shall not exceed the number of values present.  If it equals the
number of values present, the segment is inserted into the attribute as a new
value.
.TP
.IR syntax "\0\fBSyntax\fP(Syntax)
If the value being written was not already present in the subject, this
identifies the syntax the value is to have.  It must be a permissible syntax
for the attribute of which this is a value.  If the value being written was
already present in the subject then that value's syntax is preserved.
.TP
.IR string_offset "\0\fBStarting Position\fP(String Offset)
The offset, in octets, of the start of the string segment to write.
.sp
If it exceeds the current length of the string value being written, the
argument is taken to be equal to that current length.
.sp
In the C interface, the Starting Position argument and the Next Position result
of the generic interface are realized as the String Offset argument.
.TP
.IR elements "\0\fBElements\fP(String)
The string segment to be written.  A copy of this segment will occupy a
position within the string value being written, starting at the offset given by
the Starting Position argument.  Any values already at or beyond this offset
are discarded.
.TP
.IR string_offset "\0\fBNext Position\fP(String Offset)
The offset, in octets, after the last string segment written.  This result is
present if, and only if, the Return Code result is success
.RB [ OM_SUCCESS ].
.sp
In the C interface, the Starting Position argument and the Next Position result
of the generic interface are realized as the String Offset argument.  The value
returned as the Next Position result may be used as the value for the Starting
Position argument in the next call of the function.  This allows for sequential
writing of the value of a long string.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR om_write ()
function writes a segment of an attribute value in a private object, the
.IR subject .
The segment that is supplied is a segment of the string value that would have
been supplied if the complete value had been written in a single call.
.PP
The written segment is made the value's last; the function discards any values
whose offset equals or exceeds the Starting Position argument.  If the value
being written is in the local representation, it is converted to the non-local
representation (which may entail the loss of information and which may yield a
different number of elements than that provided).
.TP
.B Note:
This function enables the client to write an arbitrarily long value without
having to place a copy of the entire value in memory.
.\"
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
Upon successful completion, the zero value of
.RB [ OM_SUCCESS ]
is returned. Otherwise, a non-zero diagnostic error value is returned.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR om_write ()
fails, it returns a non-zero error code, as follows:
.TP
.RB [ OM_FUNCTION_DECLINED ]
The function does not apply to the object to which it is addressed.
.TP
.RB [ OM_FUNCTION_INTERRUPTED ]
The function was aborted by an external force (for example, a keystroke,
designated for this purpose, at a user interface).
.TP
.RB [ OM_MEMORY_INSUFFICIENT ]
The service cannot allocate the main memory it needs to complete the function.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NETWORK_ERROR ]
The service could not successfully employ the network upon which its
implementation depends.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NO_SUCH_OBJECT ]
A purported object is nonexistent or the purported handle is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NO_SUCH_SYNTAX ]
A purported syntax identifier is undefined.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NO_SUCH_TYPE ]
A purported type identifier is undefined.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NOT_PRESENT ]
An attribute value is absent, not present.
.TP
.RB [ OM_NOT_PRIVATE ]
An object is public, not private.
.TP
.RB [ OM_PERMANENT_ERROR ]
The service encountered a permanent difficulty other than those denoted by
other return codes.
.TP
.RB [ OM_POINTER_INVALID ]
In the C inteface, an invalid pointer was supplied as a function argument or as
the receptacle for a function result.
.TP
.RB [ OM_SYSTEM_ERROR ]
The service could not successfully employ the operating system upon which its
implementation depends.
.TP
.RB [ OM_TEMPORARY_ERROR ]
The service encountered a temporary difficulty other than those denoted by
other return codes.
.TP
.RB [ OM_WRONG_VALUE_LENGTH ]
An attribute has, or would have, a value that violates the value length
constraints in force.
.TP
.RB [ OM_WRONG_VALUE_MAKEUP ]
An attribute has, or would have, a value that violates a constraint of the
value's syntax.
.TP
.RB [ OM_WRONG_VALUE_POSITION ]
The usage of value position(s) identified in the argument(s) of a function is
invalid.
.TP
.RB [ OM_WRONG_VALUE_SYNTAX ]
An attribute has, or would have, a value whose syntax is not permitted.
.PP
Other arguments passed to or returned by the function are unaffected.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
.BR om_write ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR om_write ()
is compatible with
.IR "Solstice OSI 8.0 "  to " 9.0
and implementations based on
XOM,
.[
xom osi
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Note that many add-on OSI packages for popular UNIX SVR 4.2 based releases
provided the XOM interface and the associated set of X/Open, IEEE and ISO
standard interfaces.
.IP \(em
The function is source compatible only.  Binary compatibility was not
attempted.
.PP
See also,
.BR XOM (3),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM.
.[
xom osi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR om_write ()
first appeared in XOM.
.[
xom osi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the 
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
XOM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
