'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: OM_workspace.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/11/06 11:43:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/11/06 11:43:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: OM_workspace.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:11  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:31  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH OM_WORKSPACE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B OM_workspace
\- 
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xom.h>
.HP
.B
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Two application-specific APIs may involve the same class, the two APIs may
employ different implementations of the service, for example, because they are
supplied by different vendors, and the two implementations may represent
private objects differently. If it is to use both application-specific APIs,
the client must be able to specify which service implementation is to create
an instance of the class that both support. In addition, the client may wish
to present the object at both application-specific APIs, in which case the
object must be converted from one internal format to another. Such
interworking between service implementations is achieved by means of
workspaces.
.PP
The service maintains private objects in workspaces. A workspace is a
repository for instances of classes in the closures of one or more packages
associated with the workspace. The implementations of the OM interface
functions may differ from one workspace to another. A package may be
associated with any number of workspaces. The OM package is implicitly
associated with every workspace. Other packages may be explicitly associated
with a workspace when it is defined.
.PP
The interface includes functions for effectively copying and moving objects
from one workspace to another, provided that the objects classes are
associated with both. How workspaces are created, made known to the client and
destroyed, however, is outside the scope of this document. In all cases,
destroying a workspace effectively applies the Delete function to each private
object it contains.
Notes:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
Typically workspaces are created, made known to the client, and destroyed by
means of application-specific APIs designed to be used in conjunction with the
present interface.
.IP 2.
Failure to delete private objects before closing the workspace could result in
consumption of resources by those objects with no mechanism available for
freeing those resources.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ap_snd (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR OM_workspace
is compatible with XOM.
.[
xom
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM.
.[
xom
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR OM_workspace
first appeared in XOM.
.[
xom
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was written for the OpenSS7 XOM Library.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4



