'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: XAP-ROSE.3.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-29 00:01:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:01:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: XAP-ROSE.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-29 00:01:53  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-25 08:38:27  brian
.\" - working up libraries modules and drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-16 17:34:22  brian
.\" - working up manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:12  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH XAP-ROSE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B XAP-ROSE
\- Remote Operations Service Element (XAP-ROSE) API
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xap_rose.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
XAP-ROSE.
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR librose (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
XAP-ROSE is used in conjunction with XAP to establish an association with a remote ROSE service user
and then pass ROSE primitives between two ROSE service users.
.[
x219
.]
An include file for the XAP-ROSE user containing structure definitions and
constants is defined in \fB<xap_rose.h>\fP.
.PP
The XAP-ROSE API defines an additional structure,
.BR ap_ro_cdata_t ,
that is pointed to by the
.I cdata
argument.  This structure is used to pass ROSE-specific protocol information between the service
user and the service provider.  The
.B ap_ro_cdata_t
structure is defined as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
	long udata_length;
	long rsn;
	long evt;
	long sync_p_sn;
	long sync_type;
	long resync_type;
	long src;
	long res;
	long res_src;
	long diag;
	unsigned long tokens;
	unsigned long token_assignment;
	ap_a_assoc_env_t *env;
	ap_octet_string_t act_id;
	ap_octet_string_t old_act_id;
	ap_old_conn_id_t *old_conn_id;
	
	long pci;
	long priority;
	long invoke_id_present;
	long invoke_id;
	long linked_id_present;
	long linked_id;
	long op_class;
	long type;
	union {
		unsigned long local;
		ap_objid_t global;
	} value;
} ap_ro_cdata_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
where,
.TP
.I pci
presentation context identifier for user data,
.TP
.I priority
priority of the request (informative to provider),
.TP
.I invoke_id_present
invoke identifier present flag,
.TP
.I invoke_id
operation invocation identifier,
.TP
.I linked_id_present
linked identifier present flag,
.TP
.I linked_id
invocation identifier of parent operation,
.TP
.I op_class
class of the operation,
.TP
.I type
value, result or operation,
.TP
.I value.local
local value (integer) of the operation code,
.TP
.I value.global
global value (object identifier) of the operation code.
.TP \w'\fBNote:\fR\(em'u
.B Note:
The ROSE specific
.B ap_ro_cdata_t
structure elements
.IR priority " and " op_class
support an RTSE-based implementation of ROSE which is currently not within the scope of this API.
They are defined by this specification for future use and are not currently used.
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
The ROSE specific environment attributes are as follows:
.TP
.B AP_RO_FAC_AVAIL
The AP_RO_FAC_AVAIL attribute is used to indicate the availability of facilities in the XAP-ROSE
provider.
The attribute type is \fBunsigned long\fP with bit values \fIAP_RO_BIND\fP.  The attribute is
readable always and writable never.
The attribute is bit significant, and the following bit values are defined:
.RS
.TP
.I AP_RO_BIND
The ROSE bind and unbind primitives, AP_RO_BIND and AP_RO_UNBIND, are supported.
.RE
.TP
.B AP_RO_PCI_LIST
The AP_RO_PCI_LIST attribute is used to define those abstract syntaxes that the ROSE service
provider should examine for the presence of ROSE PDUs.  The attribute consists of a list of
presentation context identifiers (PCIs) for abstract syntaxes.  These PCIs are used to reference the
abstract syntaxes defined in the XAP environment variables AP_DCS, AP_PCDL or AP_PCDRL (depending on
the current state of the XAP-ROSE instance).
.sp
The attribute type is \fBap_ro_pci_list_t\fP as defined in \fB<xap_rose.h>\fP with a default of an
empty list.  The attribute is readable always and writable always.
.sp
A value assigned to the AP_RO_PCI_LIST environment attribute is validated only when the
.BR ap_ro_init (3)
function is called.  At this point, if the content of the list represents valid abstract syntaxes
for the association, the list will be used by the ROSE service provider to send and receive ROSE
PDUs.  Subsequent change to the value of the AP_RO_PCI_LIST attribute will not take effect until the
.BR ap_ro_init (3)
function is called again.
.sp
The \fBap_ro_pci_list_t\fP, defined in \fB<xap_rose.h>\fP is used to specify a list of abstract
syntaxes that the ROPM is to examine to identify incoming ROSE PDUs.  It is defined as:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    int size_pcil;
    int *pci_list;
} ap_ro_pci_list_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.sp
where,
.TP
.I size_pcil
is the number of presentation contexts identifiers in the list, and
.TP
.I pci_list
is a pointer to an integer array of presentation context identifiers.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH FUNCTIONS
.PP
The XAP-ROSE API
.[
XAP-ROSE
.]
provides the following functions in addition to those defined by the XAP specifications:
.[
XAP c303
.]
.TP \w'\fBap_ro_release\fP(3)\(em'u
.BR ap_ro_init (3)
\- initialize an XAP-ROSE instance.
.sp
The
.BR ap_ro_init (3)
function enables the operation of the ROSE service provider, allowing the API user to send XAP-ROSE
request primitives and causing the service provider to filter incoming primitives to identify and
deliver XAP-ROSE indication primitives.
.TP
.BR ap_ro_release (3)
\- release an XAP-ROSE instance.
.sp
The
.BR ap_ro_release (3)
function releases an instance of the XAP-ROSE user environment from an established application
association.
.TP
.BR ro_bind (3)
\- bind a ROSE instance
.TP
.BR ro_unbind (3)
\- unbind a ROSE instance
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.SS Implementing ROSE Bind and Unbind Operations
.PP
The ROSE service definition
.[
x219
.]
defines a
.I bind
operation that creates an association over which subsequent operation requests
and replies are transferred.  The ROSE service definition
.[
x219
.]
also defines an
.I unbind
operation that destroys the association created by the
.I bind
operation.
.PP
Depending on the version of the ROSE specification implemented by the XAP-ROSE
provider, the
.IR bind " and " unbind
operations may either by defined as a macros using the A-ASSOCIATE and
A-RELEASE primitives, with the ROSE protocol encoded in the user information
portion of these primitives, or as the separate ROSE primitives
.BR BIND " and " UNBIND .
.PP
In the XAP-ROSE API, if the underlying ROSE implementation supports the
.BR BIND " and " UNBIND
primitives, the
.BR AP_RO_BIND_XXX " and " AP_RO_UNBIND_XXX
primitives can be used as described in
.BR AP_RO_BIND_REQ (7),
.BR AP_RO_BIND_IND (7),
.BR AP_RO_BIND_RSP (7),
.BR AP_RO_BIND_CNF (7),
.BR AP_RO_UNBIND_REQ (7),
.BR AP_RO_UNBIND_IND (7),
.BR AP_RO_UNBIND_RSP (7),
and
.BR AP_RO_UNBIND_CNF (7).
Their usage is similar to that of other ROSE primitives defines through
XAP-ROSE.
.PP
In the case where the A-ASSOCIATE and A-RELEASE primitives are to be used, the
XAP-ROSE AP user can implement the
.I bind/unbind
operation using the ACSE
.[
x217
.]
primitives defined by XAP.  The rules for encoding
the operation arguments for these primitives are those defined by XAP for the
relevant primitives, rather than the rules for these primitives in this
specification for encoding other operation and reply arguments.
.SS Bind and Unbind Encoding
.PP
When the
.B AP_RO_BIND
bit is set in the
.B AP_RO_FAC_AVAIL
XAP-ROSE environment attribute, the BIND/UNBIND primitives are available;
otherwise, the BIND/UNBIND primitives are unavailable and the user must us the
.BR A_ASSOC_REQ (7),
.BR A_ASSOC_IND (7),
.BR A_ASSOC_RSP (7),
.BR A_ASSOC_CNF (7),
.BR A_RELEASE_REQ (7),
.BR A_RELEASE_IND (7),
.BR A_RELEASE_RSP "(7) and
.BR A_RELEASE_CNF (7)
primitives directly.
.PP
The ROSE service specification, ISO 9072-1,
.[
iso 9072-1
.]
has macro definitions for the
.IR bind " and " unbind
operations.  These macros show the required tagging of the user information
portion of the ACSE A-ASSOCIATE and A-RELEASE primitives
.[
x217
.]
when embedded in the Association-information EXTERNAL encoding.  For each of
the
.IR bind " and " unbind
macros, an example encoding is shown below.  These encodings take precedence
over the encoding shown on the
.BR ap_snd (3)
manual page of the XAP specification.
.PP
These examples use the value syntax defined by the ASN.1 specification with
the addition (for the purposes of illustration only) of explicit tag
information included within square brackets (for example: [INTEGER] - a
universal tag, [0] - a context specific tag, and so on).
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
bind macro for the
.BR A_ASSOC_REQ
primitive:
.sp
 user-information [30] {
   [EXTERNAL] { -- Association-information
     direct-reference [OBJECT IDENTIFIER] { ... }
     single-ASN1-type [0] { Argument-value [16] ... }
   }
 }
.IP \(bu
bind-accept macro for the
.BR A_ASSOC_RSP (accept)
primitive:
.sp
 user-information [30] {
   [EXTERNAL] { -- Association-information
     indirect-reference [INTEGER] { ... }
     single-ASN1-type [0] { Result-value [17] ... }
   }
 }
.IP \(bu
bind-refuse macro for the
.BR A_ASSOC_RSP (refuse)
primitive:
.sp
 user-information [30] {
   [EXTERNAL] { -- Association-information
     direct-reference [OBJECT IDENTIFIER] { ... }
     single-ASN1-type [0] { Error-value [18] ... }
   }
 }
.IP \(bu
unbind macro for the
.BR A_RELEASE_REQ
primitive:
.sp
 user-information [30] {
   [EXTERNAL] { -- Association-information
     indirect-reference [INTEGER] { ... }
     single-ASN1-type [0] { Argument-value [19] ... }
   }
 }
.IP \(bu
unbind-accept macro for the
.BR A_RELEASE_RSP (accept)
primitive:
.sp
 user-information [30] {
   [EXTERNAL] { -- Association-information
     indirect-reference [INTEGER] { ... }
     single-ASN1-type [0] { Result-value [20] ... }
   }
 }
.IP \(bu
unbind-refuse macro for the
.BR A_RELEASE_RSP (refuse)
primitive:
.sp
 user-information [30] {
   [EXTERNAL] { -- Association-information
     indirect-reference [INTEGER] { ... }
     single-ASN1-type [0] { Error-value [21] ... }
   }
 }
.PP
The ASN.1 Basic Encoding Rules (BER)
.[
iso 8825-2
.]
must be used to encode the user-information with the exception of the contents
of the single-ASN1-type which must be encoded in the transfer syntax
identified by direct-reference or indirect-reference.  The presence of the
direct-reference or indirect-reference is normally mandated by Application
Profile.
.\"
.\"
.SH PRIMITIVES
.PP
The following list of Event make up the Valid set of XAP-ROSE events, which
driver the XAP-ROSE and the associated ROPM (Remote Operations Protocol
Machine).
.PP
.TS
center box tab(:);
cb|cb|cb
l|c|c.
XAP-ROSE Event:Send:Receive
_
\fBAP_RO_BIND_REQ\fP(7):Send:-
\fBAP_RO_BIND_IND\fP(7):-:Receive
\fBAP_RO_BIND_RSP\fP(7):Send:-
\fBAP_RO_BIND_CNF\fP(7):-:Receive
\fBAP_RO_INVOKE_REQ\fP(7):Send:-
\fBAP_RO_INVOKE_IND\fP(7):-:Receive
\fBAP_RO_RESULT_REQ\fP(7):Send:-
\fBAP_RO_RESULT_IND\fP(7):-:Receive
\fBAP_RO_ERROR_REQ\fP(7):Send:-
\fBAP_RO_ERROR_IND\fP(7):-:Receive
\fBAP_RO_REJECTU_REQ\fP(7):Send:-
\fBAP_RO_REJECTU_IND\fP(7):-:Receive
\fBAP_RO_REJECTP_IND\fP(7):-:Receive
\fBAP_RO_UNBIND_REQ\fP(7):Send:-
\fBAP_RO_UNBIND_IND\fP(7):-:Receive
\fBAP_RO_UNBIND_RSP\fP(7):Send:-
\fBAP_RO_UNBIND_CNF\fP(7):-:Receive
.TE
.SS Sending Primitives
.PP
An XAP-ROSE instance can be used to send
.I Request
and
.I Response
primitives defined both by this specification and by the XAP specification
(subject to limitations imposed by the underlying ACSE
.[
x217
.]
or Presentation Layer
.[
x216
.]
service provider).
.PP
The XAP function
.BR ap_snd (3)
is used to send all outbound primitives.  The
.I cdata
argument for the
.BR ap_snd (3)
call points to a
.IR "void *cdata"
instead of
.IR "ap_cdata_t *cdata" .
This allows the use of XAP as well as XAP-ROSE primitives to be combined in
one Library.  The
.I cdata
must point to an
.B ap_ro_cdata_t
structure if any ROSE-specific information is to be included with the
primitive being sent.  For specific
.B ap_ro_data_t
usage, refer to the primitive manual pages in Section 7 of the manual as
listed above.
.PP
When calling
.BR ap_snd (3)
to send a ROSE primitive, the service user must indicate the abstract syntax
that defines the data values contained in the PDU (both the ROSE protocol
control data and any element which is specific to the remote operation, such
as operation-argument).  To do this, the service user sets the
.I cdata.pci
element to identify one of the abstract syntaxes that was defined as a ROSE
abstract syntax using the
.B AP_RO_PCI_LIST
environment attribute.
.PP
The service provider performs the following steps to send a ROSE primitive:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
encode the ROSE-defined parts of the PDU (using the transfer syntax negotiated
for the indicated presentation context)
.IP \(bu
if required, append the data value that the user supplied in the
.I ubuf
parameter (this is specific to the remote operation, such as
.IR operation-argument )
.IP \(bu
embed the resulting data value into a presentation data value (PDV) labelled
with the relevant presentation context identifier
.IP \(bu
pass the resulting PDV to the P_DATA request primitive as the User Data
parameter.
.IP \fBNote:\fP \w'\fBNote:\fP\(em'u
A data value passed to the service provider in the
.I ubuf
parameter is passed in encoded form.  Unlink XAP primitives, no ACSE or
Presentation PDU tag information is encoded with the data value; the buffers
passed contain only the encoding of the data value itself.  The reason for the
deviation is that the ROSE service has to do the encoding of the full PDU.
.SS Receiving Primitives
.PP
The XAP-ROSE instance can be use to receive
.I Indication
and
.I Confirmation
primitives defined both by this specification and by the XAP specification
(subject to limitations imposed by the underlying ACSE or Presentation Layer
service provider).
.PP
The XAP function
.BR ap_rcv (3)
is used to receive all incoming primitives.  The
.I cdata
argument for the
.BR ap_rcv (3)
call points to a
.IR "void *cdata"
instead of
.IR "ap_cdata_t *cdata" .
This allows the use of XAP as well as XAP-ROSE primitives to be combined in on
Library.  The
.I cdata
must point to an
.B ap_ro_cdata_t
structure.  For specific
.B ap_ro_cdata_t
usage, refer to the primitive pages in Section 7 of the manual as listed
above.
.PP
When receiving primitives, the ROSE service provider filters incoming
primitives, using the list of abstract syntaxes defined by the environment
attribute
.BR AP_RO_PCI_LIST ,
to detect incoming primitives that contain ROSE PDUs.
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
a TD PPDU (Transfer Data Presentation PDU) that contains a single data value
from one of the abstract syntaxes defined by the
.BR AP_RO_PCI_LIST
environment attribute (where that data value is one of the defined ROSE PDU
data types) is processed by the ROSE service provider and delivered to the
service user as the appropriate ROSE primitive indication.
.IP \(bu
all other ACSE or Presentation PDUs are delivered to the service user as the
appropriate ACSE or Presentation Layer indication or confirmation primitive.
.PP
Where the incoming TD PPDU does contain a ROSE PDU, the ROSE service provider
performs the following steps to deliver the primitive to the service user:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
extract the presentation context identifier from the received presentation
data value (PDV) and use it to decode the ROSE-defined PDU parameters for
return in the
.I cdata
parameter
.IP \(bu
set the
.I cdata.pci
element to indicate the presentation context to be used by the service user to
decode any data value that is specific to the remote operation (such as
.IR operation-argument )
.IP \(bu
set the
.I ubuf
parameter to return any data value that is specific to the remote operation
(the encoded data value is returned)
.IP \(bu
return the relevant ROSE primitive indication.
.IP \fBNote:\fP \w'\fBNote:\fP\(em'u
A data value returned by the service provider in the
.I ubuf
parameter is passed in encoded form.  Unlike XAP primitives, no ACSE or
Presentation PDU tag information is encoded with the data value, the buffers
passed contain only the encoding of the data value itself.  The reason for the
deviation is that the ROSE service has to do the encoding of the full PDU.
.SS Encoding User Data for ROSE Primitives
.PP
The ROSE protocol specification, ISO 9072-2,
.[
iso 9072-2
.]
has ASN.1 definitions for the encodings of the ROSE operations.  It is the
responsibility of the XAP-ROSE user to encode/decode the following structure
members for the following primitives:
.PP
.TS
box tab(:);
lb|lb
lb|li.
primitive:member
_
AP_RO_INVOKE_REQ:operation-value, argument
AP_RO_RESULT_REQ:operation-value, result
AP_RO_ERROR_REQ:error-value, parameter
.TE
.PP
The XAP-ROSE provider is responsible for the encoding/decoding of the
remainder of all primitives.
.PP
In the case of the
.I operation-value
and
.I error-value
members, which are of the ASN.1 type OBJECT IDENTIFIER, when passed in the
global element of
.IR cdata->value ,
the contents should be encoded using ASN.1 BER.
.[
iso 8825-2
.]
.PP
During negotiation of Transfer Syntaxes, the XAP-ROSE provider only accepts
Transfer Syntaxes supported by the implementation.  However, from a practical
perspective, ASN.1 BER should be supported to allow interoperability between
the two systems.  For the
.IR Invoke ", " Result " and " Error
operations, the user must provide data encoded using the negotiated transfer
syntax selected for the given Presentation Context Identifier (PCI) when the
ROSE primitive associated with the operation is sent, and must decode the user
data portion when a ROSE primitive is received.
.PP
The following extract from ISO 9072-1
.[
iso 9072-1
.]
shows the operation ASN.1 structures and shows in bold print the portion for
which the XAP-ROSE user is responsible.
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B AP_RO_INVOKE_REQ
operation encoding
.sp
 [SEQUENCE] {
  invoke-ID [INTEGER] { ... }
  linked-ID [INTEGER] { ... }
  operation-value [OBJECT IDENTIFIER] { ... }
  -- operation-value global encoding choice
  \fBargument { ... } -- ANY DEFINED BY operation-value\fP
  -- argument is provided by the user
 }
.IP \(bu
.B AP_RO_RESULT_REQ
operation encoding
.sp
 [SEQUENCE] {
   invoke-ID [INTEGER] { ... }
   [SEQUENCE] {
     operation-value [OBJECT IDENTIFIER] { ... }
     -- operation-value global encoding choice
     \fBresult { ... } -- ANY DEFINED BY operation-value\fP
     -- result is provided by the user
   } -- OPTIONAL
 }
.IP \(bu
.B AP_RO_ERROR_REQ
operation encoding
.sp
 [SEQUENCE] {
   invoke-ID [INTEGER] { ... }
   error-value [OBJECT IDENTIFIER] { ... }
   -- error-value global encoding choice
   \fBparameter { ... } -- ANY DEFINED BY error-value\fP
   -- parameter is provided by the user
 }
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.SS Establishing and Releasing an XAP-ROSE Instance
.PP
An XAP instance is established using the XAP function,
.BR ap_open (3).
The
.I service provider
argument to
.BR ap_open (3)
may be used to identify a service provider that supports ROSE.  The XAP
environment attribute
.BR AP_MODE_AVAIL
for such an association has the
.BR AP_ROSE_MODE
flag set to indicate that this instance is capable of operating as an XAP-ROSE
instance.
.PP
To use the instance as an XAP-ROSE instance, it is necessary to set the
.B AP_ROSE_MODE
flag in the XAP environment variable
.BR AP_MODE_SEL ,
at which point the functions, environment attributes and primitives defined by
this specification become available to the application.  When the
.BR AP_ROSE_MODE
flag in
.B AP_MODE_SEL 
is set, the environment attributes defined by XAP-ROSE are initialized to
their default state.
.PP
Clearing the
.B AP_ROSE_MODE
flag in
.B AP_MODE_SEL
causes the XAP-ROSE function, environment attributes and primitives to become
unavailable.  Alternatively, the XAP-ROSE instance can be destroyed using the
XAP
.BR ap_close (3)
function.  Any state held by the ROSE service provider for an instance is lost
when the flag is cleared.  If the flag is set again for the instance at a
later time, the ROSE service provider is set to its initial state and
environment variables are reinitialized to their default values.
.PP
Currently, XAP-ROSE only supports service providers that implement the ROSE
service using the services of the presentation layer directly as an unconfirmed
transfer service.  A future version of this API may support Reliable Transfer
(RTSE)
.[
x218
.]
.[
x228
.]
service providers.
.SS Specifying ROSE Abstract Syntaxes
.PP
For the ROSE service provider to detect incoming ROSE PDUs and indicate them
to the service user, the ROPM must examine incoming
.BR P_DATA_IND (7)
primitives to determine if it contains a ROSE PDU.
.PP
As the abstract syntaxes that may contain ROSE PDUs are defined by the
application as part of the specification of remote operations, the service
user must inform the service provider which abstract syntaxes may contain ROSE
PDUs.
.PP
To support this feature, XAP-ROSE defines an additional environment attribute,
.BR AP_RO_PCI_LIST ,
that allows the service user to register the list of abstract syntaxes to be
examined.  The attribute consists of a list of object identifiers that are to
be examined by the ROSE service provider.  This attribute may be set by calling
the XAP function
.BR ap_set_env (3)
as follows:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
ap_set_env(fd, AP_RO_PCI_LIST, val, aperrno_p);
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
where
.I val
is a structure of type
.BR ap_val_t ,
and
.I val.v
contains a pointer to a structure of type
.BR ap_ro_pci_list_t .
.SS Controlling the ROSE Protocol Machine
.PP
Selecting
.B AP_ROSE_MODE
in the XAP environment attribute
.BR AP_MODE_SEL
for an XAP instance makes the XAP-ROSE functions, environment attributes and
primitives available to the service user.  However, to enable the ROSE
Protocol Machine (ROPM) and permit ROSE primitives to be sent and received,
the service user must call the
.BR ap_ro_init (3)
function.  The user may call the
.BR ap_ro_release (3)
function to disable the ROPM.
.PP
For XAP-ROSE instances used only for supporting the transfer of ROSE
Operations, the ROPM may be enabled when the XAP-ROSE instance is created, and
left so for the lifetime of the instance.
.PP
The ROPM is disabled automatically when the XAP-ROSE instance is destroyed by
calling
.BR ap_close (3),
so it is not necessary to call
.BR ap_ro_release (3)
for this mode of usage.
.PP
An XAP-ROSE instance may be used to support a sequence of associations.  It is
not necessary to enable and disable the ROPM for each association.  Once
enabled, it becomes active whenever an established association exists, and is
dormant at other times.
.PP
It is possible to use a single XAP instance and/or association to transfer
both ROSE PDUs and those of other application protocols.  Because examining
incoming primitives which uses an XAP instance in this manner may use
.BR ap_ro_init (3)
and
.BR ap_ro_release (3)
to enable the ROPM only when required.
.PP
A call to
.BR ap_ro_init (3)
causes the list of ROSE abstract syntaxes identified by the PCI entries in the
environment attribute
.B AP_RO_PCI_LIST
to be validated.
.PP
The service use should ensure that the set of PCIs available on the
association has been defined before this call (either in
.BR AP_DCS
if the association is already established, or in
.BR AP_PCDL / AP_PCDRL
in a state where the defined context set is not available).  If this is not
the case, the call to
.BR ap_ro_init (3)
returns the error
.RB [ AP_RO_CNTX_NOT_PRES ]
and the ROPM will not be enabled.
.PP
There are three different scenarios when
.BR ap_ro_init (3)
can be called, and each operates as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
For an initiator before connection establishment, the user sets
.B AP_PCDL
to contain the list of proposed presentation contexts, each PCI having an
abstract syntax and one or more transfer syntaxes.  The user sets
.B AP_RO_PCI_LIST
to contain the list of PCIs that identify presentation contexts using the ROSE
protocol.  The user then calls
.BR ap_ro_init (3)
and the following checks are performed:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Each PCI in the
.B AP_RO_PCI_LIST
is checked against the
.BR AP_PCDL .
If the PCI is in the
.BR AP_PCDL ,
then each transfer syntax is checked to see if it is supported.  If not, the
transfer syntax is removed from the
.BR AP_PCDL .
If no more transfer syntaxes remain in the presentation context, the PCI is
removed from the
.BR AP_PCDL .
If there are no more PCIs in the
.BR AP_PCDL ,
an
.RB [ AP_RO_CNTX_NOT_PRES ]
error is returned.
.sp
Upon successful completion, the ROPM is enabled.  If an error is returned, the
ROPM is not enabled and the user may examine/modify the resulting
.BR AP_PCDL
value before retrying.
.RE
.IP \(bu
For an initiator or responder after connection establishment, the user sets
.BR AP_PO_PCI_LIST
to contain the list of PCIs that identify presentation contexts using the ROSE
protocol.  The user then calls
.BR ap_ro_init (3)
and the following checks are performed:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Each PCI in the
.B AP_RO_PCI_LIST
is checked against the PCIs in the
.BR AP_DCS .
If the PCI is not in the
.BR AP_DCS
an
.RB [ AP_RO_BAD_PCI ]
error is returned.  If the PCI is in the
.BR AP_DCS ,
then the transfer syntax in the
.BR AP_DCS
entry for this PCI is checked to see if it is supported.  If it is not
supported, an
.RB [ AP_RO_T_SYTX_NSUP ]
error is returned.
.sp
Upon successful completion, the ROPM is enabled.  If an error is returned, the
ROPM is not enabled and the user may examine/modify the
.B AP_RO_PCI_LIST
value before retrying.
.RE
.IP \(bu
For a responder during inward connection establishment, the user sets
.BR AP_PCDRL
to accept or reject the proposed presentation contexts and transfer syntaxes.
The user then sets
.B AP_RO_PCI_LIST
to contain the list of PCIs that identify presentation contexts using the ROSE
protocol.  The user then calls
.BR ap_ro_init (3)
and the following checks are performed:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Each PCI in the
.B AP_RO_PCI_LIST
is checked against the
.BR AP_PCDL .
If the PCI is not in the
.BR AP_PCDL
an
.RB [ AP_RO_BAD_PCI ]
error is returned.  If the PCI is in the
.B AP_PCDL
and the transfer syntax is not supported by the ROSE provider, the context is
marked as rejected in the
.BR AP_PCDRL .
If no contexts with supported transfer syntaxes remain, an
.RB [ AP_RO_CNTX_NOT_PRES ]
error is returned.
.sp
Upon successful completion, the ROPM is enabled.  If an error is returned, the
ROPM is not enabled and the user may examine or modify the
.B AP_RO_PCI_LIST
value before retrying.
.RE
.PP
The
.BR ap_ro_init (3)
function may be called when ROPM is already enabled, to validate and install a
modified list of ROSE abstract syntaxes.
.PP
XAP does not support the P-ALTER-CONTEXT service.  If it is necessary to change
the value of
.B AP_RO_PCI_LIST
during the lifetime of an association, the list of abstract syntaxes
negotiated when the association was created must be sufficient to support the
new value of
.BR AP_RO_PCI_LIST .
.\"
.SS Obtain an XAP-ROSE Instance
.PP
An XAP-ROSE instance must be obtained/initialized by issuing an
.BR ap_open (3).
.SS Initialize the XAP-ROSE Environment
.PP
The environment of the created instance is initialized by using either
.BR ap_init_env (3)
or
.BR ap_restore (3)
XAP functions.  The set of abstract syntaxes to be examined for incoming ROSE
PDUs is defined by setting the
.BR AP_RO_PCI_LIST
environment attribute, using the XAP function
.BR ap_set_env (3).
.PP
The ROSE service provider is activated by calling the
.BR ap_ro_init (3)
function, at which point the service provider will begin examining received
.BR P_DATA_IND (7)
primitives to identify incoming ROSE PDUs.
.SS Bind the XAP-ROSE user to a local PSAP Address
.PP
The XAP-ROSE user must bind to a local PSAP address before attempting to issue
any ROSE or ACSE service primitives.
.SS Send or Receive AP_RO_BIND_XXX or A_ASSOC_XXX Event
.PP
After the XAP-ROSE user has initialized all relevant environment attributes,
it is ready to establish an application association.  This may be done by
either issuing an
.BR AP_RO_BIND_REQ (7)/ A_ASSOC_REQ (7),
or by receiving and processing an
.BR AP_RO_BIND_IND (7)/ A_ASSOC_IND (7).
.SS Transfering ROSE Primitives
.PP
Once the association has been established, the Application Entities may begin
transferring information, either via the XAP-ROSE primitives, or by using the
available XAP primitives, that is:
.BR P_DATA_REQ ", " P_SYNCMINOR_REQ ", etc ..."
.SS Releasing the Application Association
.PP
Upon confirmation of information transfer, the applications may release the
association via the
.BR AP_RO_UNBIND_REQ (7)/ AP_RELEASE_REQ (7)
or the
.BR AP_RO_UNBIND_IND (7)/ AP_RELEASE_IND (7)
Services.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP
.RB [ AP_RO_BAD_PCI ]
The PCI is not in the AP_PCDL or AP_DCS.
.TP
.RB [ AP_RO_EMPTY_LIST ]
The list has no elements.
.TP
.RB [ AP_RO_CNTX_NOT_PRES ]
One or more of the contexts identified is not in the relevant associations (presentation) defined
context set.
.TP
.RB [ AP_RO_ILLEGAL_SIZE ]
The list size is not a positive value or list is greater than the size of the AP_DCS attribute list.
.TP
.RB [ AP_RO_T_SYTX_NSUP ]
The transfer syntax in the AP_DCS entry for this PCI is not supported.
.TP
.RB [ AP_NOT_SUPPORTED ]
The identified instances is not an XAP-ROSE instance - that is, the service provider selected in the
call to
.BR ap_open (3)
does not support a ROSE service provider, or the AP_ROSE_MODE flag has not been set in the
AP_MODE_SEL environment attribute.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Note that, unlike other OSI-based application interfaces, the XAP-ROSE
.[
xap-rose
.]
does not require abstract data manipulation using the XOM
.[
xom osi
.]
model or interfaces.
It is, therefore, fairly easy to implement the A- and P- primitives directly
using a
.I STREAMS
based driver.  Note that a
.I STREAMS
pushable module that translates between an XTI-mOSI interface and an XAP-ROSE
interface is possible.  Because a Stream provides an XAP-ROSE compatible
service interface, does not mean that all classes of services or primitives
are supported.
For example, it is possible to use XAP-ROSE
.[
xap-rose
.]
as an interface for TCAP.
.[
q771
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
xns99
.]
.[
xap c303
.]
.[
xti/tli revision 1
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
