'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: XFTAM.3.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-29 00:01:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:01:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: XFTAM.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-29 00:01:53  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-26 11:11:54  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-25 08:38:27  brian
.\" - working up libraries modules and drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:12  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH XFTAM 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B XFTAM
\- FTAM High-Level API (XFTAM) Version 2
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
FTAM High-Level API, XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
.BR libftam (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.hy 0
.HP
.BI "FT_status ft_abandon(\c
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.BI "OM_sint " invoke_id ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.HP
.BI "FT_status ft_abort(\c
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.BI "OM_uint32 " association_id ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.HP
.BI "FT_status ft_close(\c
.BI "OM_private_object " session );
.HP
.BI "FT_status ft_connect(\c
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.BI "OM_Object " p_address ,
.BI "OM_Object " ftam_in ,
.BI "OM_Object " api_in ,
.BI "OM_uint32 *" association_id ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" ftam_out ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.HP
.BI "FT_status ft_disconnect(\c
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.BI "OM_uint32 " association_id ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" ftam_out ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.HP
.BI "FT_status ft_fcattributes(\c
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.BI "OM_object " p_address ,
.BI "OM_string *" filename ,
.BI "OM_object " new_attributes ,
.BI "OM_object " ftam_in ,
.BI "OM_object " api_in ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" return_attributes ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" ftam_out ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.HP
.BI "FT_status ft_fdelete(\c
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.BI "OM_object " p_address ,
.BI "OM_string *" filename ,
.BI "OM_object " ftam_in ,
.BI "OM_object " api_in ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" ftam_out ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.HP
.BI "FT_status ft_frattributes(\c
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.BI "OM_object " p_address ,
.BI "OM_string *" filename ,
.BI "OM_object " attribute_names ,
.BI "OM_object " ftam_in ,
.BI "OM_object " api_in ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" return_atttributes ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" ftam_out ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.HP
.BI "FT_status ft_frdir(\c
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.BI "OM_object " p_address ,
.BI "OM_string *" pathname ,
.BI "OM_object " attribute_names ,
.BI "OM_object " ftam_in ,
.BI "OM_object " api_in ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" directory_list ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" ftam_out ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.HP
.BI "FT_status ft_freceive(\c
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.BI "OM_object " p_address ,
.BI "OM_string *" src_filename ,
.BI "OM_enum " src_effect ,
.BI "OM_string *" dest_filename ,
.BI "OM_enum " dest_efect ,
.BI "OM_object " src_attributes ,
.BI "OM_object " ftam_in ,
.BI "OM_object " api_in ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" return_attribute ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" ftam_out ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.HP
.BI "FT_status ft_fsend(\c
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.BI "OM_string *" src_filename ,
.BI "OM_enum " src_effect ,
.BI "OM_object " p_address ,
.BI "OM_string *" dest_filename ,
.BI "OM_enum " dest_effect ,
.BI "OM_object " initial_attributes ,
.BI "OM_object " ftam_in ,
.BI "OM_object " api_in ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" return_attributes ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" ftam_out ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.HP
.BI "FT_status ft_gperror(\c
.BI "OM_private_object " api_out_in ,
.BI "OM_string **" return_string ,
.BI "OM_string **" vendor_string ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.HP
.BI "FT_status ft_open(\c
.BI "FT_package_t " package_list[] ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" session ,
.BI "OM_workspace *" workspace );
.HP
.BI "FT_status ft_rcvresult(\c
.BI "OM_private_object " session ,
.BI "OM_uint *" completion_flag ,
.BI "OM_uint32 *" op_invoke_id ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" op_api_out ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" op_ftam_out ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" op_result_object ,
.BI "OM_private_object *" api_out );
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH FUNCTIONS
.PP
.TP \w'\fBft_frattributes\fP(3)\ \-\(en'u
.BR ft_abandon "(3) \-
abandon an outstanding or interrupted operation
.PD 0
.TP
.BR ft_abort "(3) \-
abort an association and any outstanding operations using it
.TP
.BR ft_close "(3) \-
destroy an XFTAM instance and release associated resources
.TP
.BR ft_connect "(3) \-
establish an association with an FTAM file-store
.TP
.BR ft_disconnect "(3) \-
disconnect an XFTAM association
.TP
.BR ft_fcattributes "(3) \-
change the file attributes of an FTAM file
.TP
.BR ft_fdelete "(3) \-
delete an FTAM file
.TP
.BR ft_frattributes "(3) \-
read the file attributes of an FTAM file
.TP
.BR ft_frdir "(3) \-
read the contents of an FTAM file-store directory
.TP
.BR ft_freceive "(3) \-
receive a file from an FTAM filestore
.TP
.BR ft_freceive "(3) \-
delete the existing file and replace with the file received.  The transfer
.TP
.BR ft_freceive "(3) \-
the remote file is appended to the existing local file.  The transfer fails
.TP
.BR ft_freceive "(3) \-
the file transfer fails.
.TP
.BR ft_fsend "(3) \-
send a file to an FTAM filestore
.TP
.BR ft_gperror "(3) \-
translate an FTAM error to a printable string
.TP
.BR ft_open "(3) \-
initialize a session with XFTAM and allocate a workspace
.TP
.BR ft_rcvresult "(3) \-
receive result of an asynchronous operation
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B XFTAM
API provides a set of functions to support FTAM file transfer and management
operations.  That is, XFTAM allows an application to transfer complete files
to and from a remote Virtual Filestore (VFS) and to perform management
operations on those files (read attributes, change attributes, and delete
files).  A functoin is provided to list the contents of a directory on a
remote filestore (this function relies upon an optional feature of FTAM \- the
NBS-9 document type \- which may not be supported by the underlying initiator
or the responder that provides access to the remove filestore).
.PP
The XFTAM API provides the following functions and features:
.PP
.B API Support Functions
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.IR ft_open "() \-
create an XFTAM instance and allocate an XOM workspace for the associated
package(s).
.IP \(bu
.IR ft_close "() \-
destroy an XFTAM instance and free the associated workspace.
.IP \(bu
.IR ft_connect "() \-
create an association to a remote FTAM responder within an existing XFTAM
instance.
.IP \(bu
.IR ft_disconenct "() \-
destroy an association established by
.IR ft_connect ()
.IP \(bu
.IR ft_abort "() \-
abort an association and any outstanding asynchronous operations.
.IP \(bu
.IR ft_abandon "() \-
abandon an outstanding asyncrhonous operation.
.IP \(bu
.IR ft_rcvresult "() \-
receive the results of an oustanding asynchronous operation.
.IP \(bu
.IR ft_gperror "() \-
translate XFTAM return codes into a printable string.
.PP
.B File Transfer Functions
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.IR ft_fsend "() \-
send a file from the local filestore to a remote VFS.
.IP \(bu
.IR ft_freceive "() \-
receive a file from a remote VFS into the local filestore.
.PP
.B File Management Functions
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.IR ft_frattributes "() \-
read the attributes of a file in a remote VFS.
.IP \(bu
.IR ft_fcattributes "() \-
change the attributes of a file in a remote VFS.
.IP \(bu
.IR ft_fdelete "() \-
delete a file in a remote VFS.
.PP
.B Miscellaneous FUnctions
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.IR ft_frdir "() \-
return a list of entries from a directory in a remote VFS.
.PP
.B Document Types
.PP
XFTAM supports the following document types as the source or destination for
file transfers:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B FTAM-1
\- unstructured text.
.IP \(bu
.B FTAM-2
\- sequential text.
.IP \(bu
.B FTAM-3
\- unstructured binary.
.PP
Support for transfer of FTAM-2 document type is optional in the FTAM profile
\- a paticular XFTAM implementation, or the responders with which it
interacts, may not support it.  XFTAM does not support file access operations
on individual parts of an FTAM-2 document.  XFTAM optionally supports the
NBS-9 document type for listing contents of a directory on a remote filestore.
.PP
.B XFTRAM Base Package
To facilitate the passing of control information between the API user and
XFTAM, the services of the OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation API (XOM) are used.
An XOM package has been defined which contains object class definitions for
the information to be passed.
.PP
.B Supporting APIs
.PP
XFTAM relies upon an implementation of the X/Open XOM API, as specified in the
referenced XOM specification, to support the passing of control information
between the API user and XFTAM.
.PP
Also, optionally an implementation of the X/Open XDS API (reference XDS) may
be used to provide an interface to a directory service for the purposes of
obtaining addressing information needed to locate a remote FTAM responder.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Folloiwng are the return codes defined by XFTAM and listed by the XFTAM
functions.  Each entry includes a description of the meaning of the code.
.\"
.SS FTAM Error Codes
.PP
These codes indicate that the underlying FTAM implementation reported an
error. The application must examine any FTAM diagnostics objects returned in
order to obtain a detailed description for the failure.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_FTAM_CANCEL ]
This error is returned when XFTAM receives an F-CANCEL indication primitive
during data transfer, indicating that the remote responder cannot continue
with the data transfer.  The responder may provide diagnostic structures to
specify the reason for the abort. When XFTAM issues an F-CANCEL request to
abandon a data transfer regime, the cause of the error is indicated by an
alternative XFTAM return code.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_FTAM_PERMANENT ]
This type of error will occur every time the user attempts the requested
operation. This type of error would be reported when, for example, the create
password specified does not match the one held by the responder.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_PROVIDER_ABORT ]
This error is returned when XFTAM receives an F-P-ABORT indication primitive
from the service provider. The primitive may have been initiated by either the
initiating service provider (as a result of an state error or a communications
error) or the responding service provider (as a result of a state error - of
course communications errors detected by the responder cannot be reported to
the initiator). The only way to determine which entity caused the abort is to
examine the source parameters of any diagnostic structures associated with the
abort primitive.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_USER_ABORT ]
This error is returned when XFTAM receives an F-U-ABORT indication primitive
from the service provider, as a result of the responder issuing an equivalent
request.  The responder may provide diagnostic structures to specify the
reason for the abort.
.\"
.SS Operation Error Codes
.PP
These error codes indicate operation-related errors detected by the XFTAM API.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_ATTR_GRP_NOT_NEGOTIATED ]
Returned by a function when an optional FTAM attribute group, required by the
requested operation, has not been negotiated by XFTAM for the FTAM regime
(XFTAM always requests support of all attribute groups - this error occurs
when the responder refuses to support one or more groups).
.RS
.PP
For example, this error would be returned by
.BR ft_fcattributes (3)
when an attempt is made to modify an attribute from the storage attribute
group but the responder declines to support that group. Another example is
where the API user specifies an values for the FTAM access passwords parameter
(via the Access-Passwords XOM attribute of the FTAM-Input-Parameters object
class) but support of the security attribute group is refused by the remote
responder.
.RE
.TP
.RB [ FTE_FILE_EXISTS ]
This error is returned by
.BR ft_freceive (3)
when the destination file exists and the dest_effect function parameter is set
to fail.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_FQOS_NOT_NEGOTIATED ]
This error is returned when XFTAM is not able to negotiate the requested
Quality of Service (specified in the FQoS attribute of the
FTAM-Input-Parameters) for the the XFTAM operation. It indicates that the FTAM
regime was established with a lower FQoS value than that requested, and the
operation was terminated as a consequence. If the requested FQoS is not
supported by the underlying FTAM intiator because of an XFTAM implementation
restriction, [FTE_NOTSUP_FQOS] is returned instead.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_FUNCT_UNIT_NOT_NEGOTIATED ]
Returned by a function when a functional unit, required by the requested
operation, is not supported by the responder.
.RS
.PP
For example, this error would be returned by
.BR ft_fcattributes (3)
when the responder does not support the enhanced file management functional
unit.
.RE
.TP
.RB [ FTE_INV_ATTRIBUTE ]
Returned by 
.BR ft_fcattributes (3)
when an attempt is made to change an attribute that FTAM defines as
non-modifiable. Returned by
.BR ft_fsend (3)
when an attempt is made to specify initial FTAM attributes that are not
settable by the initiator.
.RS
.PP
For example, this error would be returned if the user specified a value for
the permitted actions FTAM attribute (only settable at file creation) in a
call to
.BR ft_fcattributes (3)
or a value for date and time of creation (only settable by the responder) in a
call to
.BR ft_fsend (3).
.RE
.TP
.RB [ FTE_INV_DOC_RCVD ]
This error is returned by
.BR ft_freceive (3)
when the content type of the file being received is not supported by the
initiator. It may be possible to transfer the file successfully by specifying
a valid simplification or relaxation of the actual file content type (via the
Content-Type XOM attribute of the Attributes object class).
.RS
.PP
For example, this error is returned where the responder indicates that the
file to be accessed is of type FTAM-2 and the local XFTAM implementation does
not support that document type. Another example is the case where the document
type is FTAM-1 (which must be supported) but the universal class document type
parameter is specified to be TeletextString, which may not be supported by the
local implementation.
.RE
.TP
.RB [ FTE_INV_DOC_SPEC ]
This error is returned by
.BR ft_freceive "(3) and " ft_fsend (3)
when the API user specifies a content type for the file to be transferred (via
the Content-Type XOM attribute of the Attributes object class) which is not
supported by the local XFTAM implementation. In the send case, the content
type refers to the type of file to be created in the reponders filestore. In
the receive case, it is the expected type of the file to be received. See
[FTE_INV_DOC_RCVD] for examples.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_INV_RETURN_CODE ]
Returned by
.BR ft_gperror (3)
when the Return-Code XOM attribute of the API-Output-Parameters object is not
a valid error code as defined by this specification.
.TP
.RB [FTE_INV_STRING_LENGTH]
The value of the maximum-string-length parameter for FTAM document types may
be restricted by an implementation of XFTAM. This error is returned if the
user attempts to send or receive a document which exceeds the maximum
supported value for this parameter. The error may be returned even if a value
is not specified for the parameter, as the default value is unbounded. The
minimum value for the maximum-string-length that an XFTAM implementation must
support is 134 characters for the FTAM-1 and FTAM-2 document types, and 512
octets for FTAM-3.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_INV_VENDOR_CODE ]
Returned by
.BR ft_gperror (3)
when the Vendor-Code XOM attribute of the API-Output-Parameters object is not
a valid error code as defined by the particular implementation.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_LOCAL_FILE_ERROR ]
Returned by
.BR ft_freceive "(3) or " ft_fsend (3)
when XFTAM is unable to perform the required action in the local filestore for
a reason other than one for which a specific error code is defined.  The
precise reason for the failure is indicated by the local operation system
error reporting mechanism.
.RS
.PP
For example, if this error is returned by a call to
.BR ft_freceive (3)
in a CAE-conformant system, the system error variable errno contains the
CAE-defined error code which is set as a result of the attempt to create or
overwrite the local destination file.
.RE
.TP
.RB [ FTE_LOCAL_PERMISSION ]
Returned by
.BR ft_freceive "(3) or " ft_fsend (3)
when XFTAM is unable to perform the required action in the local filestore for
reasons of access control. In the send case, this may occur when the user
specifies a src_effect of move-file (in which case XFTAM attempts to delete
the local file once the transfer is complete - the error indicates that the
local file deletion failed, though the transfer of the file has been completed
successfully). In the receive case, the error is returned when the dest_effect
parameter is set to delete-file (in which case XFTAM attempts to delete the
local file if it already exists).
.TP
.RB [ FTE_NO_SRC_FILE ]
This error is returned by
.BR ft_send (3)
when the local file does not exist.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_NO_SUCH_INVOKATION ]
This error is returned when an attempt is made to abandon an XFTAM operation
which is not outstanding, or to cancel a synchronous operation while no such
operation has been interrupted.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_SERV_CLS_NOT_NEGOTIATED ]
Returned by a function when a service class, required by the requested
operation, is not supported by the responder.
.RS
.PP
For example, this error would be returned by
.BR ft_fcattributes (3)
when the responder does not support the file management service class.
.RE
.\"
.SS API Error Codes
.PP
These error codes indicate errors detected by the XFTAM API, other than those
directly related to the operation being requested.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_CANCEL ]
This error code is returned by a synchronously-invoked function when
.BR ft_abandon (3)
has been called from within an interrupt handler function to terminate the
interrupted XFTAM operation.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_CONTEXT_MISMATCH ]
The error code is returned when there is a mismatch in the use of connection
related parameters, and includes the following conditions:
.RS
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
When neither neither p_address or Association-Id is provided to identify the
FTAM responder. p_address is used when context free operation is in use, and
Association-Id identifies the FTAM association when context-sensitive
operation is in use.
.IP \(em
When any connection related parameters are supplied in addition to
Association-Id.  When Association-Id is provided, the operation is
context-sensitive and these are not provided.
.RE
.TP
.RB [ FTE_INV_ASSOC ]
This error is returned when XFTAM is supplied with an Association-Id which
does not represent an existing association within the XFTAM instance indicated
by the session input parameter.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_INV_PADDRESS ]
The Presentation-Address object passed to a file transfer or management
function does not represent an valid address for the XFTAM operation. This
error indicates that the object passed does not have a valid set of XOM
attributes:
.RS
.RS
.PP
A valid instance of the Presentation-Address class must contain, as a minimum,
one N-Addresses attribute and one of the attributes P-Selector, S-Selector or
T-Selector.
.RE
.PP
Alternatively, it indicates that none of the list of N-Addresses attributes
contain a valid NSAP address. The NSAP address formats supported are a feature
of the individual XFTAM implementation and the environment in which it is
running.
.RE
.TP
.RB [ FTE_NO_RESOURCES ]
This error code is returned when a request to execute an XFTAM operation
cannot be completed due to a lack of some resource required to perform it. An
implementation may use the Vendor-Code attribute of the API-Output-Parameters
object to provide a more specific indication of the resource required to
execute the operation.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_NO_WORKSPACE ]
Returned by
.BR ft_open (3)
if an XFTAM instance cannot be created because storage cannot be allocated for
the associated XOM workspace.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_NOTSUP_ASYNC ]
This error code is returned in the case where an implementation does not
support asynchronous execution mode and the user attempts to invoke an XFTAM
operation with the Asynchronous XOM attribute in API-Input-Parameters set to
TRUE. If an implementation defines the value of the constant FT_MAX_ASYNC_OPS
to be zero, asynchronous operations are not supported. If the constant
FT_MAX_ASYNC_OPS is not defined to be zero, the support of asynchronous
operations is mandatory for
.BR ft_fsend "(3) and " ft_freceive (3)
but remains optional for all other functions.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_NOTSUP_FQOS ]
This error code indicates that the level of recovery requested using the FQoS
XOM attribute is not supported by this implementation of XFTAM. Support for
FQoS values other than No Recovery is optional.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_NOTSUP_FTAM2 ]
This error indicates that the optional document type FTAM-2 is not supported
by this implementation of XFTAM. It may be returned by
.BR ft_freceive (3)
if the specified source file in the remote filestore is of type FTAM-2, or by
.BR ft_fsend (3)
if the user requests that the file created in the remote filestore is to be of
type FTAM-2.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_PENDING_OP ]
The error is returned by XFTAM when an
.BR ft_disconnect (3)
function is attempted on an association which is currently carrying active
functions.
.BR ft_abandon (3)
should be used to terminate the action, or
.BR ft_abort (3)
used to abort the association.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_SESSION ]
The Session object passed to a function in the session parameter does not
identify a valid XFTAM instance. A Session object is returned when an XFTAM
instance is created by a call to
.BR ft_open (3),
and destroyed when the object is passed to
.BR ft_close (3).
.TP
.RB [ FTE_SYSTEM_ERROR ]
An error related to the OS has occurred. The user should examine the
Vendor-Code XOM attribute of the API-Output-Parameters return object to
determine the precise error.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_TOO_MANY_OPS ]
This error is returned if the API user attempts to invoke too many
simultaneous asynchronous operations. The constant FT_MAX_ASYNC_OPS indicates
how many such operations may be outstanding at any one time. It is the users
responsibility to keep track of asynchronous operations and check against this
number. If this error is returned, the user must wait until one of the current
operations to complete and use
.BR ft_rcvresult (3)
to return its results before further asynchronous operations may be invoked.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_VENDOR ]
An error related to the specific implementation of XFTAM has occurred. The
user should examine the Vendor-Code XOM attribute of the API-Output-Parameters
return object to determine the precise error.
.TP
.RB [ FTE_XDS_ERROR ]
An error related to the XDS has occurred. The user should examine the
Vendor-Code XOM attribute of the API-Output-Parameters return object to
determine the precise error.
.RS
.IP \fBNote:\fP \w'\fBNote:\fP\(em'u
This is for XFTAM implementations that use the XDS bind( ) function to get a
bound session.
.RE
.TP
.RB [ FTE_XOM_ERROR ]
An error related to the XOM has occurred. The user should examine the
Vendor-Code XOM attribute of the API-Output-Parameters return object to
determine the precise error.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
A public object is a descriptor list that contains all the XOM attribute
values of an XOM object, including the XOM class.  Public objects are used to
simplify application programs by enabling the use of static data structures
instead of a sequence of XOM function calls.
.PP
The application can generally supply either a public object or a private
object as an argument of the interface functions.  There are exceptions, such
as where an argument must be a private object \- in the interests of
efficiency for example.  The interface always retunrs private objects.  The
application can convert these into public objects by a call to
.BR om_get (3),
if required.
Note that public objects returned by
.BR om_get (3)
are read-only and must not be modified in any way.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR ft_abandon (3),
.BR ft_abort (3),
.BR ft_close (3),
.BR ft_connect (3),
.BR ft_disconnect (3),
.BR ft_fcattributes (3),
.BR ft_fdelete (3),
.BR ft_frattributes (3),
.BR ft_frdir (3),
.BR ft_freceive (3),
.BR ft_fsend (3),
.BR ft_gperror (3),
.BR ft_open (3),
.BR ft_rcvresult (3),
.BR om_get (3),
.RB XOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B XFTAM
is compatible with XFTAM
.[
xftam c415
.]
and implementations based on XFTAM, such as
.IR "Solaris Solstice OSI 9.0" \(rg,
.IR "HP-UX OTS/9000" \(rg,
.IR "AIX OSI/6000" \(rg,
.IR "SVR 4.2 ONP" \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.BR ft_abandon "(3) and " ft_rcvresult (3)
functions, and the
.IR Asynchronous " and " Invoke-Id
XOM attributes, are not supported by all implementations, and they are not
necessary for implementations not supporting asynchronous operation.
.IP \(em
Attribute
.IR Document-Type-FTAM-2
is only supported if the implementation supports the FTAM-2 document type. 
.IP \(em
Only source compatibility is attempted.  Binary compatibility will fail due to
the lack of publichsed and standard symbolic constants.  Any binary
compatibility experienced is a bug and is scheduled to be removed in the next
release.
.PP
See
.BR XOM (3)
and
.IR STREAMS (4)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XOM
.[
xom c607
.]
XFTAM
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B XFTAM
first appeared in XFTAM.
.[
xftam c415
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the OpenSS7 FTAM Library.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
xftam c415
.]
.[
xom c607
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
