'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ap_bind.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/09/29 14:08:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/09/29 14:08:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ap_bind.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/29 14:08:30  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH XMP 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B XMP
\- X/Open Management Protocol API (XMP)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FUNCTIONS
.PP
.TP
.BR mp_abandon (3)
abandon locally the result of a pending asynchronous operation.
.TP
.BR mp_abort_req (3)
abort a management association.
.TP
.BR mp_action_req (3)
request an action on managed objects to be performed.
.TP
.BR mp_action_rsp (3)
response to an Action request.
.TP
.BR mp_assoc_req (3)
build a management association.
.TP
.BR mp_assoc_rsp (3)
response to an association request.
.TP
.BR mp_bind (3)
open a managemen session with the Agent(s) or the Manager(s).
.TP
.BR mp_cancel_get_req (3)
cancel an outstanding asynchronous Get operation.
.TP
.BR mp_cancel_get_rsp (3)
response to a Cancel-Get request.
.TP
.BR mp_create_req (3)
request to create an object in the MIB.
.TP
.BR mp_create_rsp (3)
response to a Create request.
.TP
.BR mp_delete_req (3)
request to delete an object in the MIB.
.TP
.BR mp_delete_rsp (3)
response to a Delete request.
.TP
.BR mp_error_message (3)
return an error message describing a particular error.
.TP
.BR mp_event_report_req (3)
request to forward a managment notification.
.TP
.BR mp_event_report_rsp (3)
response to an Event Report request.
.TP
.BR mp_get_assoc_info (3)
return negotiated connection values.
.TP
.BR mp_get_last_error (3)
retrieve secondary error code.
.TP
.BR mp_get_next (3)
request to get the next SNMP management information.
.TP
.BR mp_get_req (3)
request to get management information.
.TP
.BR mp_get_rsp (3)
response to Get request.
.TP
.BR mp_initialize (3)
initialize the interface and create a workspace.
.TP
.BR mp_negotiate (3)
negotiate features of the interface and service.
.TP
.BR mp_receive (3)
retrieve the result of an asynchronously executed management operation or the content of a received
management notification/indication.
.TP
.BR mp_release_req (3)
release a management association.
.TP
.BR mp_release_rsp (3)
response to a Release request.
.TP
.BR mp_set_req (3)
request to modify (replace, add, remove) attribute value(s) of a managed object with the specified
attribute value(s).
.TP
.BR mp_set_rsp (3)
response to a Set request.
.TP
.BR mp_shutdown (3)
discard a workspace.
.TP
.BR mp_unbind (3)
close a management session.
.TP
.BR mp_validate_object (3)
analyze an OM object.
.TP
.BR mp_wait (3)
wait for the availability of management message(s) from one or more bound Sessions.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
.SS Negotiation Sequence
.PP
The interface has an initialize and shutdown sequence that permits the
negotiation of optional features.  This involves the functions
.BR mp_initialize (3), 
.BR mp_negotiate (3),
and
.BR mp_shutdown (3).
Every application program must first call
.BR mp_initialize (3),
which returns a workspace.  This workspace supports only the standard Common
Management Service Package.  The workspace can be extended to support either
the CMIS package or the SNMP package or both, packages, or any vendor
extensions.  Vendor extensions may include additional packages, and may also
include additional or modified functionality.  All such packages or other
extensions are identified by means of OSI Object Identifiers, and these Object
Identifiers are supplied to the
.BR mp_negotiate (3)
function to incorporate the extensions into the workspace.  Features defined
by the XMP
.[
XMP
.]
specification are described and assigned object identifiers by that package.
A feature represents any package or any additional or modified functionality
that is subject to negotiation.  The
.BR mp_negotiate (3)
function allows some particular features to be made available.
.PP
After a workspace with the required features has been negotiated in this way,
the applications can use the workspace as required.  It can create and
manipulate OM objects using the OM functions,
.[
XOM
.]
and can start one or more
managemend sessions using
.BR mp_bind (3).
All the sessions on a given workspace share the same features.
.PP
Eventually, when it has completed its tasks, terminating all its management
sessions using
.BR mp_unbind (3),
and released all its OM objects using
.BR OM_delete (3),
.[
XOM
.]
the application should ensure that resources associated with the interface are
freed by calling
.BR mp_shutdown (3).
.PP
A miscellaneous error arises if an attempt is made to use an unavailable
feature.  If an instance of a class that is not in an available package is
supplied as a function argument, the bad-class error arises.
.\"
.\"
.SS Names, Addresses and Titles
.PP
To address a wide variety of management and transport protocols, the interface
is capable of accepting various forms of object names, system addresses and
program or system titles.
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.B Name
is an \*(lqabstract class\*(rq that contains various subclass types used to
define managed object instances.  For example, the DS-DN subclass is typically
used for ISO mangaed obejct instance naming.
.IP \(nu
.B Address
is an \*(lqabstract class\*(rq that contains varioius subclass types used to
define the specific location to contact a particular agent or manager.  For
example, the Network-Address subclass is typically used to define the location
of an SNMP agent or manager.
.IP \(nu
.B Title
is an \*(lqabstract class\*(rq that contains various subclass types used to
define the specific program or system name responsible for a managed object
instance.
.PP
All three abstract clases participate in an implementation-specific name
resolution scheme.  It is assumed that if given a \fBName\fP, and
implementation can determine the \fBTitle\fP responsible for that \fBName\fP.
It is also assumed that given a \fBTitle\fP, an implementation can determine
the \fBAddress\fP of that \fBTitle\fP.
.PP
Note: The way in which these relationships are resolved is implementation
dependent, but use of the X/Open Directory Services, XDS,
.[
XDS
.]
should play a significant role.
.PP
The performer of an invoked operation or a reported notification may be
explicitly designated at the interface boundary using the following precedence
rules:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
A default Title and/or Address may be supplied as paramters to a bound
session.  If both are provided, the implementation will verify that the Title
resolves to the Address.
.IP 2.
If automated connection management is used, a performer Title and/or Address
may be supplied as parameters within the context of a specific operation or
notification request.  If both are provided, the implementation will verify
that the Title resolves to the Address.  The context Title and/or Address
takes precedence over the session's Title and/or Address for unconnected
session objects.
.IP 3.
In the case of SNMP, a responder Address may be supplied as a parameter within
the argument of a specific operation or notification request.  The argument
Address takes precedence over either the session Title and/or Address or the
context Title and/or Address.
.IP 4.
If the performer of an invoked operation or a reported notification is not
explicitly designated at the interface boundary, the implementation will
resolve the managed object Name to the appropriate Title and/or Address.
.\"
.\"
.SS Session
.PP
A session identifies to which agent or to which manager a particular
management operation or notification will be sent.  It contains some bind
arguments, such as the name of the requestor.  The session is passed as the
first argument to most interface functions.
.PP
A session is described by an OM object of OM class \fBSession\fP.  It is
created, and appropriate parameter values may be set, using the
OSI-Abstract-Data Manipulation
.[
XOM
.]
functions.  A management session is then started with
.BR mp_bind (3)
and later is terminated with
.BR mp_unbind (3).
A session with default parameters can be started by passing the constant
\fBOM_DEFAULT_SESSION\fP as the \fBSession\fP argument to
.BR mp_bind (3).
.PP
.BR mp_bind (3)
must be called before the \fBSession\fP can be used as an argument to any
other functions in this instance.  After
.BR mp_unbind (3)
has been called,
.BR mp_bind (3)
must be called again if another session is to be started.
.PP
The interface supports concurrent sessions, so that an application implemented
as a single process, such as a server in a client-server model, can interact
with the Management Information Services using several identities; and so that
a process can interact directly and concurrently with different parts of the
MIB.
.PP
A session can be used either acting as a manager, that is, invoker of
management operations and performer of management notifications, or acting as
an agent, that is, performer of management operations and invoker of
management notifications, or both.
.PP
A session can be restricted for use only with a designated program called the
responder.  When the responder is omitted and automated connection management
is used, the session can be used to exchange management information with all
processes.
.PP
The responder (title and address) parameters of an opened session, if present,
specifies the performer of the requested operation or reported notification.
The precedence reuls on address and title of the responder are described
above.
.PP
Other OM attributes (vendors' implementation extensions) may be included to
specify characteristics of the underlying protocol used.
.PP
There are three types of Session objects:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
.B ACM Enabled Session
.RS
.PP
The \fBSession\fP collects together all the information which describes a
particular management interaction.  The parameters which are to control such a
session are set up in an instance of this OM class, which is then passed as an
argument to
.BR mp_bind (3).
This sets the OM attributes which describe the actual characteristics of this
session, and starts the session.  Such a strated session can be passed as the
first argument ot management interface functions.
.PP
No attributes of a bound or connected session can be changed.  The result of
modifying a started session is unspecified.
.PP
Finally,
.BR mp_unbind (3)
is used to terminate the sesssion, after which the parameters can be modified
and a new session started using the same instance, if required.  Multiple
concurrent sessions can be run, by using multiple instances of this OM class.
.PP
A session allows a requesting program (the requestor) to exchange management
information with another program designated (the responder) or by default to
all programs.
.PP
An ACM enable session thus allows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
a manager to access either a part of the MIB (that is, that accessible via the
designated responding agent) or the whole MIB \(em in the later, the
performing agent resolution is performed by the Management Information Service
provider, according to the managed objects accessed;
.IP \(bu
an agent to report notifications either to a particular manager or
independently of the possible recipient managers \(em in the latter, the
destinations of the event fowarding are determined by the Management
Information Service provider.
.PP
This type of session object can not be used to receive or sent ACSE related
primitives or operations explicitly.  To use ACSE explicitly, see the next
section on ACM being disabled.
.RE
.IP 2. \w'0.\(em'u
.B ACM Disabled Session
.RS
.PP
A session object can have Automatic Connection Management disabled via
.BR mp_negotiate (3),
which allows the user to explicity send and receive ACSE operations to build
and tear down associations.  It gives explicit control over associations to
the user.  The Management System Service provider does no ACSE operations on
behalf of the user.
.PP
When the user creates and binds a session object, with ACM disabled, only the
following attribtues within the session object can be specified:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
requestor-Address
.IP \(bu
requestor-Title
.IP \(bu
role
.PP
This session object is then passed as an argumnet to
.BR mp_bind (3),
which binds the session.  This bound session can only be used to send ACSE
related operations and to receive ACSE related primitives.  The following can
be sent or received using this type of bound session:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
\fBmp_receive\fP(3)/\fBMP_ASSOC_IND\fP
.IP \(bu
\fBmp_receive\fP(3)/\fBMP_ASSOC_CNF\fP
.IP \(bu
\fBmp_assoc_req\fP(3)
.IP \(bu
\fBmp_assoc_rsp\fP(3)
.PP
The other attribtues that relate to ACSE are specified within an
Assoc-Argument object or Assoc-Result object which is pased to or returned
from
.BR mp_assoc_req (3),
.BR mp_assoc_rsp (3)
or
.BR mp_receive (3).
.RE
.IP 3. \w'0.\(em'u
.B Connected Session
.RS
.PP
Once a user has created a bound session that has ACM disabled, an association
can be created.  An association is represented by a connected session object.
A connected session is returned as the result of building a new association.
THe connected session is used, like a bound session, but sending and receiving
management operations.  The major difference is that a connected session
object can only be used to send and receive operations to or from a single
remote entity.  After a session is connected, the user can release the
association or abort the association, which implicitly unbinds the connected
session.
.PP
Only CMISE operations can be send/received with a connected session.
.PP
The precedence rules for common parameters within the session and the context
objects are different for connected session objects.   Once a session is in
the connected state, the responder address and responder title can not be
overridden by the context object.
.PP
To terminate this type of session, the user should either abort or release the
session, which implicitly unbinds the session.  If the user unbinds the
connected session prior to either releasing or aborting the session, the
service provider will first attempt to release the association and if that is
rejected, will abort the association.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SS Context
.PP
The context defines the characteristics of the management interaction that are
specific to a particular maangement operation or notification, but are often
used unchanged for many operations or notifications.  Since these parameters
are presumed to be relatively static for a gvien user during a particular
management interaction, these arguments are collected into an OM object, of OM
class \fBContext\fP, which is supplied as the second argument of each
management service request.  This serves to reduce the number of arguments
passed to each function.
.PP
The context includes various administrative details, such as the \fImode\fP
defined in the Abstract Service, which affect the processing of each
management operation.  These include a number of \fBService-Controls\fP and
\fBLocal-Controls\fP, which allow control over some aspects of the service.
The \fBService-Controls\fP include \fBaccess-Control\fP, \fBmode\fP,
\fBpriority\fP, \fBresponder-Address\fP, and \fBresponder-Title\fP.  The
\fBLocal-Controls\fP include \fBasynchronous\fP, \fBreply-Limite\fP, and
\fBtime-Limit\fP.  Each of these is mapped onto an OM attribute in the
context.
.PP
The effect is as if they were passed as a group of additional arguments on
every function call.  The value of each component of the context is determined
when the interface function is called, and remains fixed throughout the
operatoin.
.PP
The precedence rules on address and title fo the responder are described
above.
.PP
In the case of SNMP \fBGet\P and \fBSet\fP operations, if the parameter
access-Control is supplied within the argument of the requested operation,
this SNMP value takes precedence over the access-Control attribute of the
context.
.PP
Some of the OM attributes of the \fBContext\fP have default values, some of
which are locally administered.  The constant \fBMP_DEFAULT_CONTEXT\fP can be
passed as the value of the \fBContext\fP argument to the interface functions,
and has the same effect as a context OM object created with default values.
The context must be a private object, unless it is \fBDefault-Context\fP.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
General rules are as follows:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
Initialize the workspace using
.BR mp_initialize (3).
.IP 2.
Negotiate features of the interface using
.BR mp_negotiate (3).
.IP 3.
Open one or several sessions using
.BR mp_bind (3).
.IP 4.
Perform management interactions (operations or notifications) using the
offered interface functions.  An interaction is identified by its
\fBInvoke-Id\fP.
.IP 5.
Close the opened sessions using
.BR mp_unbind (3).
.IP 6.
Discard the workspace using
.BR mp_shutdown (3).
.PP
Nine states are defined in the interface to cover both interface service
operations and management interactions:
.PP
.TS
box center tab(:);
cb|cbw(4.5i)
li|l.
State:Description
_
UNINIT:T{
Workspace uninitialized.
T}
INIT:T{
Workspace initialized.
T}
UNBND:T{
Session closed.
T}
BND:T{
Session opened.
T}
IDLE:T{
No interaction initiated.
T}
OUTOP:T{
Outstanding operation requested in a management interaction.
T}
OPIND:T{
Operation indication received in a management interactoin.
T}
OUTNOT:T{
Outstanding notification requested in a management interaction.
T}
NOTIND:T{
Notificatoin indication received in a management interaction.
T}
.TE
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
XMP
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
