'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: xti_osi.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-25 08:38:27 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-25 08:38:27 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: xti_osi.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-25 08:38:27  brian
.\" - working up libraries modules and drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:16  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH XTI_OSI 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B xti_osi
\- X/Open Transport Interface \- Corrigendum for OSI Transport (OSI) Conformance
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_ip.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_tcp.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_osi.h>
.HP
.BI "int " osi_xtistr " = t_open(" \fR/dev/ork6\fP ", " flags );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int " osi_xtistr " = t_open(" \fR/dev/otpi\fP ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " osi_xtistr " = t_open(" \fR/dev/oclt\fP ", " flags );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This manual page describes the XTI interface for OSI Transport in accordance
with XNS 5.2.
.[
xns 5.2
.]
.PP
The X/Open Transport Interface
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
specifies addressing and options for OSI Transport Providers (OSI-TP).
.[
x.214
.]
.[
x.224
.]
.[
rfc1006
.]
.[
rfc2126
.]
Although this interface is always exposed by including the
.RB < xti.h >
header file, it is provided by the
.RB < xti_osi.h >
header file included by the former.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This manual section describes the protocol-specific information that is
relevant for ISO transport providers.  This section also describes the
protocol-specific information that is relevant when ISO transport services are
provided over a TCP network.
.PP
The mapping for ISO-over-TCP that is referred to in this manual section is
that defined by RFC 1006.
.[
rfc1006
.]
The relevant sections are 4.6.2 (Implementation of OSI Services over IPS) and
4.6.3 (Comments).
.PP
In general, this manual section describes the characteristics that the ISO and
ISO-over-TCP transport providers have in common, with notes indicating where
they differ.
.TP
.B Notes:
.RS
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
In an ISO environment, the protocol address is the transport address.
.IP 2.
Sending data of zero octets:
.RS
.PP
The transport service definition, both in connection-mode and in
connectionless mode, does not permit sending a TSDU of zero octets.  So, n
connectionless mode, if the
.I len
parameter is set to zero, the
.BR t_sndudata (3)
call will always return unsuccessfully with minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and
.BR t_errno (3)
set to
.RB [ TBADDATA ].
In connection-mode, if the
.I nbytes
parameter is set to zero, the
.BR t_snd (3)
call will return with minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and
.BR t_errno (3)
set to
.RB [ TBADDATA ]
if either the
.B T_MORE
flag is set, or the
.B T_MORE
flag is not set and the preceding
.BR t_snd (3)
call completed a TSDU or ETSDU (that is, the call has requested sending a zero
byte TSDU or ETSDU).
.RE
.IP 3.
An ISO-over-TCP transport provider does not provide the connectionless mode.
.RE
.PP
This manual section also defines the data structures and constants required
for ISO and ISO-over-TCP transport providers that are exposed through the
.RB < xti_osi.h >
header file.
Applications written to compilation environments earlier that those required by
XNS 5.2,
.[
xns 5.2
.]
and defining
.B _XOPEN_SOURCE
to be less than
.BR 500 ,
will have the data structure and constants exposed through the inclusion of
.RB < xti.h >.
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESSING
.PP
Addressing varies according to whether one is using the XTI/TLI above OSI
Transport,
.[
x214
.]
.[
x224
.]
.[
x234
.]
above RFC 1006,
.[
rfc1006
.]
or above CLNS.
.[
x233
.]
.\"
.\"
.SS Transport Layer Addressing
.PP
The TSAP, which identifies the transport provider, can be coded in hexadecimal
or as a character string.  A TSAP is formed from the TSEL followed by the NSAP.
The TSEL in the address is preceded by a 1 octet TSEL length, and the NSAP in
the address is preceded by a 1 octet NSAP length.
.\"
.\"
.SS RFC1006 Addressing
.PP
Addressing for RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
applications is formatted in the same way as that for transport layer
applications, described above.  When using the
.BR t_connect (3)
function, the NSAP is replaced by a 4 octet IP address.  When using the
.BR t_bind (3)
function, the NSAP takes the value \*(lq\fBrk6\fP\*(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SS CLNS Addressing
.PP
The NSAP, which identifies the network provider, can be coded in hexadecimal
or as a character string.  An NSAP is formed from the NSAP preceded by a 1
octet NSAP length.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Options are formatted according to the
.B t_opthdr
structure as described in
.BR xti (3).
An OSI transport provider compliant to this specification supports none, all
or any subset of the options defined here.  An implementation may restrict the
use of any of these options by offering them only in a privileged read-only
mode.  An ISO-over-TCP
.[
rfc1006
.]
provider supports a subset of the options defined here.
.PP
Options can be
.IR "absolute requirements"
and can also be of
.IR "end-to-end significance" ,
as follows:
.TP
.I Absolute Requirements
Options that are
.IR "absolute requirements" ,
mean that when the option is negotiated with the transport service provider it
is not permitted to negotiate the option to a value with differing quality of
service.  Either the proposed value is accepted or it is rejected.  Options
that are not
.IR "absolute requirements" ,
can be negotiated by the transport provider to a different quality of service
level and it is the responsibility of the transport service user to determine
whether the negotiated value is sufficient.
.TP
.I End-to-End Significance
Options that are of
.I end-to-end significance
are options that require negotiate with, or are communicated to, the peer
transport provider or user.  For example, options that are requested in a
connection request,
.BR T_CONN_REQ (7),
primitive will be indicated at the peer in a connection indication,
.BR T_CONN_IND (7),
primitive.  Options that are not of
.I end-to-end significance
are of local significance only and can be negotiated directly between the
local transport service user and the local transport service provider.
.PP
See, for example,
.RI \(lq OPTIONS ,\(rq
in
.BR t_connect (3),
for more information.
.PP
An OSI Transport provider supports two levels of options.  These two levels
are described below:
.\"
.\"
.SS "XTI_GENERIC"
.PP
Options with this level are specific to the X/Open Transport Interface (XTI/TLI)
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
and are common to all transport providers.  For more information see
.BR xti (3).
.PP
The options defined with the option level
.B XTI_GENERIC
are as follows:
.TP
.B XTI_DEBUG
Sets debugging flags for the stream.
This option is formatted as an array of
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Legal values are implementation defined.
For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.TP
.B XTI_LINGER
Sets whether, and the amount of time if, the stream will linger waiting for
unsent data to be delivered.
This option is formatted as a
.B t_linger
structure as follows:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct t_linger {
    t_scalar_t l_onoff;   /* option on/off */
    t_scalar_t l_linger;  /* linger time */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'l_linger\(em'u
.I l_onoff
Specifies whether to linger
.RB ( T_YES )
or not
.RB ( T_NO ).
Legal values are
.BR T_YES " and " T_NO .
.TP
.I l_linger
Specifies the amount of time (in seconds) to linger.
Legal values are
.BR T_INFINITE ", " T_UNSPEC
and all positive numbers including zero.
.PP
For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.RE
.TP
.B XTI_RCVBUF
Specifies the size, in bytes, of the receive buffer.
This option is formatted as a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Legal values are all positive, non-zero numbers.
For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.TP
.B XTI_RCVLOWAT
Specifies the low water mark above which received data will be indicated and
delivered to the user.
This option is formatted as a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Legal values are all positive, non-zero numbers.
For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.TP
.B XTI_SNDBUF
Specifies the size, in bytes, of the transmit buffer.
This option is formatted as a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Legal values are all positive, non-zero numbers.
For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.TP
.B XTI_SNDLOWAT
Specifies the low water mark above which queued data will be transmitted to
the peer.
This option is formatted as a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Legal values are all positive, non-zero numbers.
For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.\"
.\"
.SS T_ISO_TP
.PP
.B Connection-mode Service
.PP
The protocol level of all subsequent options is
.BR T_ISO_TP .
All options are association-related, that is, they are options with end-to-end
significance: see
.BR xti (3).
They may be negotiated in the XTI states
.BR T_IDLE " and " T_INCON ,
and are read-only in all other states except
.BR T_UNINIT .
.PP
.B Options for Quality of Service and Expedited Data.
These options are defined in the ISO 8072:1986
.[
x214
.]
transport service definition.  The definitions are not repeated here.
.TS
center box tab(:);
cb|cb|cb|cb
cb|cb|cb|cb
lb|l|l|l.
Option Name:Type of Option:Legal:Meaning
:Value:Option Value:
_
T_TCO_THROUGHPUT:struct thrpt:octets per second:throughput
T_TCO_TRANSDEL:struct transdel:time in milliseconds:transit delay
T_TCO_RESERRORRATE:struct rate:OPT_RATIO:residual error rate
T_TCO_TRANSFFAILPROB:struct rate:OPT_RATIO:transfer failure
:::probability
T_TCO_ESTFAILPROB:struct rate:OPT_RATIO:connection establ.
:::failure probability
T_TCO_RELFAILPROB:struct rate:OPT_RATIO:connection release
:::failure probability
T_TCO_ESTDELAY:struct rate:time in milliseconds:connection establ.
:::delay
T_TCO_RELDELAY:struct rate:time in milliseconds:connection release
:::delay
T_TCO_CONNRESIL:struct rate:OPT_RATIO:connection resilience
T_TCO_PROTECTION:t_uscalar_t:see text:protection
T_TCO_PRIORITY:t_uscalar_t:see text:priority
T_TCO_EXPD:t_uscalar_t:T_YES/T_NO:expedited data
.TE
.sp
.ce 1
.I Options for Quality of Service and Expedited Data
.PP
.B OPT_RATIO
is defined as
.IR "OPT_RATIO = -log\*<10\*>(ratio)" .
The
.I ratio
is dependent on the parameter, but is always composed of a number of failures
divided by a total number of samples.  This may be, for example, the number of
TSDUs transferred in error divided by the total number of TSDU transfers
.RB ( T_TSO_RESERRORRATE ).
.PP
.B Absolute Requirements
.PP
For these options, the transport user can indicate whether the request is an
absolute requirements or whether a degraded value is acceptable.  For the QOS
options based on
.B struct rate
an absolute requirement is specified via the field
.IR minacceptvalue ,
if that field is given a value different from
.BR T_UNSPEC .
The value specified for
.B T_TCO_PROTECTION
is an absolute requirement if the
.B T_ABSREQ
flag is set.  The values specified for
.B T_TCO_EXPD
and
.B T_TCO_PRIORITY
are never absolute requirements.
.PP
A detailed description of the options for Quality of Service can be found in
the ISO 8072:1996 specification.
.[
x214
.]
The field elements of the structures in use for the option values are
self-explanatory.  Only the following details remain to be explained:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If these options are returned with
.BR t_listen (3),
their values are related to the incoming connection and not to the transport
endpoint where
.BR t_listen (3)
was issued.  To give an example, the value of
.B T_TCO_PROTECTION
is the value sent by the calling transport user, and not the value currently
effective for the endpoint (that could be retrieved by
.BR t_optmgmt (3)
with the flag
.B T_CURRENT
set).  The option is not returned at all if the calling user did not specify
it.  An analogous procedure applies for the other options.  See also
.BR xti (3).
.IP \(bu
If, in a call to
.BR t_accept (3),
the called transport user tries to negotiate an option of higher quality than
proposed, the option is rejected and the connection establishment fails.
.IP \(bu
The values of the QOS options
.BR T_TCO_THROUGHPUT ,
.BR T_TCO_TRANSDEL ,
.BR T_TCO_RESERRORRATE ,
.BR T_TCO_TRANSFFAILPROB ,
.BR T_TCO_ESTFAILPROB ,
.BR T_TCO_RELFAILPROB ,
.BR T_TCO_ESTDELAY ,
.BR T_TCO_RELDELAY " and
.BR T_TCO_CONNRESIL
have a structure format.  A user requesting one of these options might leave a
field of the structure unspecified by setting it to
.BR T_UNSPEC .
The transport provider is then free to select an appropriate value for this
field.  The transport provider may return
.B T_UNSPEC
in a filed of the structure to the user to indicate that it has not yet
decided on a definite value for this field.
.IP ""
.B T_UNSPEC
is not a legal value for
.BR T_TCO_PROTECTION ,
.BR T_TCO_PRIORITY " and
.BR T_TCO_EXPD .
.IP \(bu
.BR T_TCO_TRHOUGHPUT " and " T_TCO_TRANSDEL
.br
If
.I avgthrpt
(average throughput) is not defined (both fields are set to
.BR T_UNSPEC ),
the transport provider considers that the average throughput has the same
values as the maximum throughput
.RI ( maxthrpt ).
An analogous procedure applies to
.BR T_TCO_TRANSDEL .
.IP \(bu
The ISO specification ISO 8072:1996
.[
x214
.]
does not differentiate between average and maximum transit delay.  Transport
providers that support this option adopt the values of the maximum delay as
input for the CR-TPDU.
.IP \(bu
.B T_TCO_PROTECTION
.br
This option defines the general level of protection.  The symbolic constants
in the following list are used to specify the required level of protection:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBT_PASSIVEPROTECT\fP\(em'u
.B T_NOPROTECT
No protection feature.
.PD 0
.TP
.B T_PASSIVEPROTECT
Protection against passive monitoring.
.TP
.B T_ACTIVEPROTECT
Protection against modification, replay, addition or deletion.
.PD
.PP
Both flags
.BR T_PASSIVEPROTECT " and " T_ACTIVEPROTECT
may be set simultaneously but are exclusive with
.BR T_NOPROTECT .
If the
.BR T_ACTIVEPROTECT " or " T_PASSIVEPROTECT
flags are set, the user may indicate that this is an absolute requirement by
also setting the
.BR T_ABSREQ
flag.
.RE
.IP \(bu
.B T_TCO_PRIORITY
.br
Five priority levels are defined by XTI:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBT_PASSIVEPROTECT\fP\(em'u
.B T_PRIDFLT
Lower level.
.PD 0
.TP
.B T_PRILOW
Low level.
.TP
.B T_PRIMID
Medium level.
.TP
.B T_PRIHIGH
High level.
.TP
.B T_PRITOP
Higher level.
.PD
.RE
.IP \(bu
It is recommended that transport users avoid expedited data with ISO-over-TCP
transport provider, since the RFC 1006
.[
rfc1006
.]
treatment of expedited data does not meet the data reordering requirements
specified in ISO 8072:1996,
.[
x214
.]
and may not be supported by the provider.
.PP
The number of priority levels is not defined by
ISO 8072:1996.
.[
x214
.]
The parameter only has meaning in the context of some management entity or
structure able to judge relative importance.
.PP
.B Management Options.
These options are parameters of an ISO transport protocol according to ISO
8073:1986.
.[
x224
.]
They are not included in the ISO transport service definition ISO 8072:1996,
.[
x214
.]
but are additionally offered by XTI.  Transport users wishing to be truly
ISO-compliant should thus not adhere to them.
.B T_TCO_LTPDU
is the only management option supported by an ISO-over-TCP transport provider.
.PP
Avoid specifying both QOS parameters and management options at the same time.
.TS
center box tab(:);
cb|cb|cb|cb
cb|cb|cb|cb
lb|l|l|l.
Option Name:Type of Option:Legal:Meaning
:Value:Option Value:
_
T_TCO_LTPDU:t_uscalar_t:length in octets:maximum length of TPDU
T_TCO_ACKTIME:t_uscalar_t:time in milliseconds:acknowledge time
T_TCO_REASTIME:t_uscalar_t:time in seconds:reassignment time
T_TCO_PREFCLASS:t_uscalar_t:see text:preferred class
T_TCO_ALTCLASS1:t_uscalar_t:see text:1st alternative class
T_TCO_ALTCLASS2:t_uscalar_t:see text:2nd alternative class
T_TCO_ALTCLASS3:t_uscalar_t:see text:3rd alternative class
T_TCO_ALTCLASS4:t_uscalar_t:see text:4th alternative class
T_TCO_EXTFORM:t_uscalar_t:T_YES/T_NO/T_UNSPEC:extended format
T_TCO_FLOWCTRL:t_uscalar_t:T_YES/T_NO/T_UNSPEC:flow ctrl
T_TCO_CHECKSUM:t_uscalar_t:T_YES/T_NO/T_UNSPEC:checksum
T_TCO_NETEXP:t_uscalar_t:T_YES/T_NO/T_UNSPEC:network expedited data
T_TCO_NETRECPTCF:t_uscalar_t:T_YES/T_NO/T_UNSPEC:user of network
:::receipt confirmation
.TE
.sp
.ce 1
.I Management Options
.PP
.B Absolute Requirements
.PP
A request for any of these options is considered an absolute requirement.
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If these options are returned with
.BR t_listen (3),
their value are related to the incoming connection and not to the transport
endpoint where
.BR t_listen (3)
was issued.  That means that
.BR t_optmgmt (3)
with the flag
.B T_CURRENT
set would usually yield a different result; see
.BR xti (3).
.IP \(bu
For management options that are subject to peer-to-peer negotiation, the
following holds: if, in a call to
.BR t_accept (3),
the called transport user tries to negotiate an option of higher quality than
proposed, the option is rejected and the connection establishment fails; see
.BR xti (3).
.IP \(bu
A connection-mode transport provider may allow the transport user to select
more than one alternative class.  The transport user may use the options
.BR T_ALTCLASS1 ", " T_ALTCLASS2 ", etc.
to denot alternatives.  A transport provider only supports an
implementation-dependent limit of alternatives and ignores the rest.
.IP \(bu
The value
.B T_UNSPEC
is legal for all management options.  It may be set by the user to indicate
that the transport provider is free to choose any appropriate value.  If
returned by the transport provider, it indicates that the transport provider
has not yet decided on a specific value.
.IP \(bu
Legal values for
.BR T_PREFCLASS ",
.BR T_ALTCLASS1 ",
.BR T_ALTCLASS2 ",
.BR T_ALTCLASS3 " and
.BR T_ALTCLASS4 ",
are
.BR T_CLASS0 ",
.BR T_CLASS1 ",
.BR T_CLASS2 ",
.BR T_CLASS3 ",
.BR T_CLASS4 ", and
.BR T_UNSPEC .
.IP \(bu
If a connection has been established,
.BR T_TCO_PREFCLASS
will be set to the selected value, and
.BR T_ALTCLASS1 " through " T_ALTCLASS4
will be set to
.BR T_UNSPEC ,
if these options are supported.
.IP \(bu
.I Warning on the use of
.BR T_TCO_LTPDU :
Sensible use of this option requires that the application programmer knows
about system internals.  Careless setting of either a lower or a higher value
than the implementation-dependent default may degrade performance.
.IP ""
Legal values for an ISO transport provider are
.B T_UNSPEC
and multiples of 128 up to 128*(2^32 - 1) or the largest multiple of 128 that
will fit in a
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Values other than powers of 2 between 2^7 and 2^13 are only supported by
transport providers that conform to the 1992 update to ISO 8073.
.[
x224
.]
.IP ""
Legal values for ISO-over-TCP provider are
.B T_UNSPEC
and any power of 2 between 2^7 and 2^11 (65531).
.IP ""
The action taken by a transport provider is implementation-dependent if a
value is specified that is not exactly as defined in ISO 8073:1986
.[
x224
.]
or its addenda.
.IP \(bu
The management options are not independent of one another, and not independent
of the options defined for QOS, above.  A transport user must take care not to
request conflicting values.  If conflicts are detected at negotiation time,
the negotiation fails according to the rules for absolute requirements; see
.BR xti (3).
Conflicts that cannot be detected at negotiation time will lead to
unpredictable results in the course of communication.  Usually, conflicts are
detected at the time the connection is established.
.PP
Some relations that must be obeyed are:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If
.B T_TCO_EXP
is set to
.BR T_YES " and " T_TCO_PREFCLASS
s set to
.BR T_CLASS2 ,
.B T_TCO_FLOWCTRL
must also be set to
.BR T_YES .
.IP \(bu
If
.B T_TCO_PREFCLASS
is set to
.BR T_CLASS0 ,
.B T_TCO_EXP
must be set to
.BR T_NO .
.IP \(bu
The value in
.B T_TCO_PREFCLASS
must not be lower than the value in 
.BR T_TCO_ALTCLASS1 ", " T_TCO_ALTCLASS2 ", and
so on.
.IP \(bu
Depending on the chosen QOS options, further value conflicts might occur.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Connectionless-mode Service
.PP
The protocol level of all subsequent options is
.BR T_ISO_TP .
All options are association-related, that is, they are options with end-to-end
significance; see
.BR xti (3).
They may be negotiated in all XTI states except
.BR T_UNINIT .
.PP
.I Options for Quality of Service.
These options are all defined in the ISO 8072/Add.1:1986 transport service
definition.
.[
x214
.]
The definitions are not repeated here.  None of these options are supported by
an ISO-over-TCP transport provider, since it does not support
connectionless-mode.
.TS
center box tab(:);
cb|cb|cb|cb
cb|cb|cb|cb
lb|l|l|l.
Option Name:Type of Option:Legal:Meaning
:Value:Option Value:
_
T_TCL_TRANSDEL:struct rate:time in milliseconds:transit delay
T_TCL_RESERRORRATE:struct rate:OPT_RATIO:residual error rate
T_TCL_PROTECTION:t_uscalar_t:see text:protection
T_TCL_PRIORITY:t_uscalar_t:see text:priority
.TE
.sp
.ce 1
.I Options for Quality of Service
.PP
.B Absolute Requirements
.PP
A request for any of these options is an absolute requirement.
.PP
A detailed description of the options for Quality of Service can be found in
ISO 8072/Add.1:1986.
.[
x234
.]
The field elements of the structures in use for the option values are
self-explanatory.  Only the following details remain to be explained:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
These options are negotiated only between the local user and the local
transport provider.
.IP \(bu
The meaning, type of option value, and the range of legal option values are
identical for
.BR T_TCO_RESERRORRATE " and " T_TCL_RESERRORRATE ",
.BR T_TCO_PRIORITY " and " T_TCL_PRIORITY ",
.BR T_TCO_PROTECTION " and " T_TCL_PROTECTION ";
see
.BR xti (3).
.IP \(bu
.BR T_TCL_TRANSDEL " and " T_TCO_TRANSDEL
are different.
.B T_TCL_TRANSDEL
specifies the maximum transit delay expected during a datagram transmission,.
Note that the type of option value is a
.B struct rate
contrary to the
.B struct transdel
of
.BR T_TCO_TRANSDEL .
The range of legal option values for each field of
.B struct rate
is the same as that of
.BR T_TCO_TRANSDEL .
.IP \(bu
If these options are returned with
.BR t_rcvudata (3)
their values are related to the received datagram and not the transport
endpoint where
.BR t_rcvudata (3)
was issued.  On the other hand,
.BR t_optmgmt (3)
with the flag
.BR T_CURRENT
set returns the values that are currently effective for outgoing datagrams.
.IP \(bu
The function
.BR t_rcvuderr (3)
returns the option value of the data unit previously sent that produced the
error.
.PP
.I Management Options.
This option is a parameter of an ISO transport protocol, according to ISO
8602.  It is not included in the ISO transport service definition ISO
8072/Add.1:1986, but is an additional offer by XTI.  Transport users wishing
to be truly ISO-compliant should thus not adhere to it.
.PP
Avoid specifying both QOS parameters and this management option at the same
time.
.TS
center box tab(:);
cb|cb|cb|cb
cb|cb|cb|cb
lb|l|l|l.
Option Name:Type of Option:Legal:Meaning
:Value:Option Value:
_
T_TCL_CHECKSUM:t_uscalar_t:T_YES/T_NO:checksum computation
.TE
.sp
.ce 1
.I Management Option
.sp
.PP
.B Absolute Requirements
.PP
A request for this option is an absolute requirement.
.TP
.B T_TCP_CHECKSUM
This option allows disabling/enabling of the checksum computation.  The legal
values are
.B T_YES
(checksum enabled) and
.B T_NO
(checksum disabled).
If this option is returned with
.BR t_rcvudata (3),
its value indicates whether or not a checksum was present in the received
datagram.  The advisability of turning off the checksum check is
controversial.
.\"
.\"
.SH FUNCTIONS
.\"
.SS t_accept\fR(3)
.PP
The parameter
.I call->udata.len
must be in the range from 0 to 32.  The user may send up to 32 octets of data
when accepting the connection.
.PP
If
.I fd
is not equal to
.IR resfd ,
.I resfd
should be in state
.BR T_UNBND
or be in state
.BR T_IDLE
and be bound to the same address as
.I fd
with the
.I qlen
parameter set to 0.
.PP
A process can listen for an incoming indication on a given
.I fd
and then accept the connection on another endpoint
.I resfd
that has been bound to the same or a different protocol address with the
.I qlen
parameter (of the
.BR t_bind (3)
function) set to 0.  The protocol address bound to the new accepting endpoint
.RI ( resfd )
should in general be the same as the listening endpoint
.RI ( fd ),
because at the present time, the ISO transport service definition (ISO
8072:1986) does not authorise different from the called address, except under
certain conditions (see ISO 8072:1986 paragraph 12.2.4, Responding Address),
but it also states that it may be changed in the future.
.\"
.SS t_bind\fR(3)
.PP
The
.I addr
field of the
.BR t_bind (3)
structure represents the local TSAP.
.\" Additional stuff:
.PP
.I req->addr
specifies the TSAP address.  The format of the TSAP address is described above
under
.RI \*(lq ADDRESSING .\*(rq
Note that when interfacing to RFC1006,
.[
rfc1006
.]
the value for the NSAP field is \*(lq\fBrk6\fP\*(rq.
.PP
OSI supports both connection-oriented and connectionless mode protocols.
As each uses a different NSAP, the TSAP address for connection and
connectionless networks are different.  Therefore, the transport class (TC 0,
1, 2, 3 and 4 over CONS, and TC 4 over CLNS) is selected after the endpoint
has been bound.
.\"
.SS t_close\fR(3)
.PP
The
.BR t_close (3)
call will cause a
.BR close (2s)
call to be made on the describtor of this XTI communications endpoint.  If
there are no other descriptors in this process, or any other process that
references this communications endpoint, the
.BR close (2s)
call will perform an abortive release on any connection associated wtih this
endpoint.
.\"
.SS t_connect\fR(3)
.PP
The
.I sndcall->addr
structure specifies the remote called TSAP.  In the present version, the
returned address set in
.I rcvcall->addr
will have the same value.
.PP
The setting of
.I sndcall->udata
is optional for ISO connections, but with no daa, the
.I len
field of
.I udata
must be set to zero (0).  The
.I maxlen
and
.I buf
fields of the
.B netbuf
structure, pointed to by
.IR rcvcall->addr " and " rcvcall->opt ,
must be set before the call.
.\" Additional stuff:
.PP
.I sndcall->addr
specifies the TSAP address of the destination transport user.  Note that if
you are interfacing to RFC1006,
.[
rfc1006
.]
the NSAP is replaced by a 4 octet IP address.  Refer to
.RI \*(lq ADDRESSING ,\*(rq
above.
.\"
.SS t_getinfo\fR(3)
.PP
The information returned by
.BR t_getinfo\fR(3)
reflects the characteristics of the transport connection or, if no connection
is established, the maximum characteristics a transport connection could take
on using the underlying transport provider.  In all possible states except
.BR T_DATAXFER ,
the function
.BR t_getinfo (3)
returns in the parameter
.I info
the same information as was returned by
.BR t_open (3).
In
.BR T_DATAXFER ,
however, the information returned may differ from that returned by
.BR t_open (3),
depending on:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
the transport class negotiated during connection establishment (ISO transport
provider only)
.IP \(em
the negotiation of expedited data transfer for this connection.
.PP
In
.B T_DATAXFER
the
.I etsdu
field in the
.B t_info
structure is set to
.BR T_INVALID "(-2)
if no expedited data transfer was negotiated, and to 16 otherwise.  The
remaining fields are set according to the characteristics of the transport
protocol class in use for this connection, as defined in the following table:
.TS
box tab(:);
cb|cb|cbsss
cb|cb|cbsss
cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb
cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb
li|c|c|c|c|c.
Parameters:Before Call:After Call
::_
::Connection:Connection:Connectionless:ISO-over-TCP
::Class 0:Class 1-4::
_
fd:x:/:/:/:/
info->addr::x:x:x:x
info->options:/:x(1):x(1):x(1):x(1)
info->tsdu:/:x(2):x(2):0->63488:x(2)
info->etsdu:/:T_INVALID:16/T_INVALID(3):T_INVALID:16/T_INVALID(3)
info->connect:/:T_INVALID:32:T_INVALID:32/T_INVALID
info->discon:/:T_INVALID:64:T_INVALID:64/T_INVALID
info->servtype:/:T_COTS:T_COTS:T_CLTS:T_COTS
info->flags:/:0:0:0:0
.TE
.IP (1)
\'x' equals T_INVALID(-2) or an integer number greater than zero.
.PD 0
.IP (2)
\'x' equals T_INFINITE(-1) or an integer number greater than zero.
.IP (3)
Depending on the negotiation of expedited data transfer.  For RFC 1006 (ISO
over TCP) support, the value of info->etsdu depends on the negotiation of
expdited data transfer.
.PD
.\"
.SS t_listen\fR(3)
.PP
The
.I call->addr
structure contains the remote calling TSAP.  Since, at most, 32 octets of data
will be returned with the connection indication,
.I call->udata.maxlen
should be set to 32 before the call to
.BR t_listen (3).
.PP
If the user has set
.I qlen
greater than 1 (on the call to
.BR t_bind (3)),
the user may queue up several connection indications before responding to any
of them.  The user should be forewarned that the ISO transport provider may
start a timer to be sure queues of obtaining a response to the connection
request in a finite time.  So, if the user queues the connection indications
for too long before responding to them, the transport provider initiating the
connection will disconnect it.
.\"
.SS t_open\fR(3)
.PP
The function
.BR t_open (3)
is called as the firts step in the initialization of a transport endpoint.
This function returns various default characteristics associated with the
different classes.  According to ISO 8073:1986, an OSI transport provider
supports one or several out of five different transport protocols, class 0
through class 4.  The default characteristics returned in the parameter
.I info
are those of the highest-numbered protocol class the transport provider is
able to support.  If, for example, a transport provider supports classes 2 and
0, the characteristics returned are those of class 2.  If the transport
provider is limited to class 0, the characteristics returned are those of
class 0.
.PP
The following table gives the characteristics associated with the different
classes:
.TS
box tab(:);
cb|cb|cbsss
cb|cb|cbsss
cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb
cb|cb|cb|cb|cb|cb
li|c|c|c|c|c.
Parameters:Before Call:After Call
::_
::Connection:Connection:Connectionless:ISO-over-TCP
::Class 0:Class 1-4::
_
name:x:/:/:/:/
oflag:x:/:/:/:/
info->addr:/:x:x:x:x
info->options:/:x(1):x(1):x(1):x(1)
info->tsdu:/:x(2):x(2):0->63488:x(2)
info->etsdu:/:T_INVALID:16:T_INVALID:16/T_INVALID
info->connect:/:T_INVALID:32:T_INVALID:32/T_INVALID
info->discon:/:T_INVALID:64:T_INVALID:64/T_INVALID
info->servtype:/:T_COTS:T_COTS:T_CLTS:T_COTS
info->flags:/:0:0:0:0
.TE
.IP (1)
\'x' equals T_INVALID(-2) or an integral number greater than zero.
.PD 0
.IP (2)
\'x' equals T_INFINITE(-1) or an integral number greater than zero.
.PD
.\" Additional stuff:
.PP
.I path
can be one of the following:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lblbss
lblss.
Pseudo-Device Driver:Transport Provider
_
/dev/otpi:T{
OSI connection-oriented mode transport layer protocol.
See
.BR otpi (4).
T}
/dev/oclt:T{
OSI connectionless mode transport layer protocol.
See
.BR oclt (4).
T}
/dev/otk6:T{
RFC1006.
See
.BR otk6 (4).
T}
/dev/clnp:T{
CLNS.
See
.BR clnp (4).
T}
.TE
.PP
Note that the
.BR clnp (4)
device,
.BR /dev/clnp ,
is really the CLNS device,
.BR /dev/clns
with an autopush specification for the
.BR clnstpi (4)
module, which converts between the native NPI interface of the OSI CLNS
.[
x213
.]
and the TPI interface.  This is for providing for XTI/TLI applications that
run directly over CLNP.
.[
x233
.]
.\"
.SS t_rcv\fR(3)
.PP
If expedited data arrives after part of a TSDU has been retrieved, receipt of
the remainder of the TSDU will be suspended until the ETSDU has been
processed.  Only after the full ETSDU has been retrieved
.RB ( T_MORE
not set), will the remainder of the TSDU be available to the user.
.\"
.SS t_rcvconnect\fR(3)
.PP
On return, the
.I call->addr
structure contains the remote calling TSAP.  Since, at most, 32 octets of data
will be returned to the user,
.I call->udata.maxlen
should be set to 32 before the call to
.BR t_rcvconnect (3).
.\"
.SS t_rcvdis\fR(3)
.PP
Since, at most, 64 octets of data will be returned to the user,
.I discon->udata.maxlen
should be set to 64 before the call to
.BR t_rcvdis (3).
.\"
.SS t_rcvudata\fR(3)
.PP
The
.I unitdata->addr
structure specifies the remote TSAP.  If the
.B T_MORE
flag is set, an additional
.BR t_rcvudata (3)
call is needed to retrieve the entire TSDU.  Only normal data isreturned via
the
.BR t_rcvudata (3)
call.  This function is not supported by an ISO-over-TCP transport provider.
.\"
.SS t_rcvuderr\fR(3)
.PP
The
.I uderr->addr
structure contains the remote TSAP.
.\"
.SS t_snd\fR(3)
.PP
Zero byte TSDUs are not supported.  The
.B T_EXPEDITED
flag is not a legal flag unless expedited data has been negotiated for this
connection.
.\"
.SS t_snddis\fR(3)
.PP
Since, at most 64 octets of data may be sent with the disconnect,
.I call->udata.len
will have a value less than or equal to 64.
.\"
.SS t_sndudata\fR(3)
.PP
The
.I unitdata->addr
structure specifies the remote TSAP.
The ISO connectionless-mode transport service does not support the sending of
expedited data.  This function is not supported by an ISO-over-TCP transport
provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR XTI-OSI
has no known bugs.
The
.BR OSI (4)
implementation of
.B XTI-OSI
has been conformance tested and validated using the
.BR test-osi_otk6 "(8),
.BR test-osi_otpi "(8) and
.BR test-osi_oclt "(9)
test case executables and the
.B @PACKAGE@ autotest
conformance and validation test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"In support of the
.\".BR sockets (3)
.\"library for
.\".BR tpi (7)
.\"transport providers, the options described here have been made compatible with
.\"the socket options described in
.\".BR osi (7).
.\"As a result, depending on the release of
.\".BR INET (4),
.\"the XTI/TLI options described might not be compatible with the options described
.\"here.
.\".PP
.\"The
.\".B Linux
.\"socket version of OSI described in
.\".BR osi (7),
.\"accessed using the TPI interface of the
.\".B @PACKAGE@
.\"package described in
.\".BR INET (4),
.\"supports all of the options described here.
.PP
Earlier versions of the
.BR otk6 (4)
driver did not support wildcard binds.  If an attempt was made to bind to a
wildcard address or port number, the bind would fail with
.RB [ TNOADDR ].
While this is correct behavior, it was not consistent with other
.B XTI-OSI
implementations.  Recent versions of the
.BR otk6 (4)
driver include the ability to bind to wildcards or to request that the
transport service provider asign a suitable address.
.PP
Including the
.RB < xti.h >
header file may include the
.RB < xti_inet.h "> and <" xti_osi.h >
header files.
Including the
.RB < xti_inet.h >
header file may include the
.RB < xti_ip.h >
and
.RB < xti_tcp.h >
header file.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR OSI (4),
.BR otk6 (4),
.BR osi (4),
.BR osi (7),
.BR INET (4),
.BR read (2),
.BR readv (2),
.BR tcp (4),
.BR tcp (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR t_accept (3),
.BR t_connect (3),
.BR T_CONN_REQ (7),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_getinfo (3),
.BR timod (4),
.BR tirdwr (4),
.BR t_listen (3),
.BR T_OPTDATA_IND (7),
.BR t_optmgmt (3),
.BR t_rcvconnect (3),
.BR t_snddis (3),
.BR write (2),
.BR writev (2),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_ip (3),
.BR xti_udp (3),
.BR xti_tcp (3),
.BR xti_osi (3),
.BR test-osi_otk6 (8),
.BR test-osi_otpi (8),
.BR test-osi_oclt (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
There are a number of OSI devices providing the Transport Provider Interface
that provide OSI conforming TPI devices as follows:
.TP
.IR /dev/tcp ", " /dev/inet/tcp
For more information on this TPI TCP device, see
.BR tcp (4).
.TP
.IR /dev/otk6 ", " /dev/streams/otk6 ", " /dev/streams/clone/otk6
These devices provide the RFC 1006 ISO-over-TCP implementation.
For more information on this OSI device, see
.BR otk6 (4).
.TP
.IR /dev/tp0 ", " /dev/streams/otpi/tp0
These devices provide ISO Transport protocol class 0 operation.
For more information on this OSI device, see
.BR otpi (4).
.TP
.IR /dev/tp1 ", " /dev/streams/otpi/tp1
These devices provide ISO Transport protocol class 0 operation.
For more information on this OSI device, see
.BR otpi (4).
.TP
.IR /dev/tp2 ", " /dev/streams/otpi/tp2
These devices provide ISO Transport protocol class 0 operation.
For more information on this OSI device, see
.BR otpi (4).
.TP
.IR /dev/tp3 ", " /dev/streams/otpi/tp3
These devices provide ISO Transport protocol class 0 operation.
For more information on this OSI device, see
.BR otpi (4).
.TP
.IR /dev/tp4 ", " /dev/streams/otpi/tp4
These devices provide ISO Transport protocol class 0 operation.
For more information on this OSI device, see
.BR otpi (4).
.TP
.IR /dev/tp4_cots ", " /dev/streams/otpi/tp4_cots
These devices provide ISO Transport protocol class 0 operation.
For more information on this OSI device, see
.BR otpi (4).
.TP
.IR /dev/oclt ", " /dev/streams/oclt ", " /dev/streams/clone/oclt
These devices provide the ISO Transport Connectionless service.
For more information on this OSI device, see
.BR oclt (4).
.PP
These devices are provided by the
.BR @PACKAGE_TITLE@ ( @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ )
package.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This interface is compatible with
.IR "XNS 5.2" ,
.[
xns99
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "XNS 5.2" ,
such as
.IR "Solaris\(rg SunLink" ,
.[
sunlink-tli
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Internet Protocol (IP) options were not standardized until XPG4.
.[
xpg
.]
.IP \(em
The format of options for the Transport Provider Interface (TPI) differ from
those for the AT&T Transport Layer Interface (TLI).  This interface follows
the TPI.
.IP \(em
The precise values of some options and formats of primitives may differ from
implementation to implementation.  Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
Any binary compatiblity currently achieved is a bug and is scheduled to be
removed in the next release.
.PP
See
.BR xti (3),
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The OpenGroup XNS Issue 5.2,
.[
xns99
.]
.I Solaris\(rg SunLink
documentation.
.[
sunlink-tli
.]
Conformance is validated using the
.BR test-osi_otk6 "(8)
.BR test-osi_otpi "(8) and
.BR test-osi_oclt "(9)
test case executables and the
.B @PACKAGE@ autotest
validation test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.I Transport Provider Interface (TPI)
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
was first created by AT&T as the
.I Transport Layer Interface (TLI)
and was subsequently standardized by
.B UNIX International
and later
by
.B The OpenGroup
in XPG4
.[
xpg
.]
and XNS 5.2.
.[
xns99
.]
.PP
The
.B OSI-TPI
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
stack.
This is an unofficial Corrigendum to XNS 5.2 Revision 2.
.[
xns99
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
