'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: xti_mosi.3.man,v 0.9.2.5 2008-04-29 00:01:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:01:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: xti_mosi.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2008-04-29 00:01:55  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-25 08:38:27  brian
.\" - working up libraries modules and drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/12/15 20:20:27  brian
.\" - updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/11/10 19:40:50  brian
.\" - documentation updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/11/06 11:43:16  brian
.\" - updated manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database striso.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so striso.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH XTI_MOSI 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Library Calls"
.SH NAME
.B XTI-mOSI, mOSI, xti_mosi
\- Minimum OSI Functionality (CAE Specification)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_mosi.h>
.HP
.BI "int " mosi_xtistr " = t_open(" \fR/dev/mosi\fP ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This manual page describes the XTI interface for \fBXTI-mOSI\fP in accordance with XNS.
.[
xns99
.]
.PP
The X/Open Transport Interface
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
specifies addressing and options for \fBXTI-mOSI\fP.
.[
iso 11188-3
.]
Although this interface may be exposed by including the
.RB < xti.h >
header file, it is provided by the
.BR < xti_mosi.h >
header file possibly included by the former.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This manual section describes the protocol-specific information that is relevant for
\fBXTI-mOSI\fP transport,
presentation, session and ACSE service providers.  This section also described the protocol-specific
information that is relevant when \fBXTI-mOSI\fP services are provided over an IP network using Lightweight
Presentation Protocol (LPP).
.[
rfc1085
.]
.PP
This section also defines the data structures and constants required for \fBXTI-mOSI\fP transport
providers that are exposed through the
.RB < xti_mosi.h >
header file.
.\"
.\"
.SH OBJECT IDENTIFIERS
.PP
.HP
.RB \(lq \ex28\exB4\ex57\ex3\ex1\ex1 \(rq
.br
.I {iso(1) standard(0) curl(11188) mosi(3) default-abstract-syntax(1) version(1)}
.[
iso 11188-3
.]
.HP
.RB \(lq \ex28\exB4\ex57\ex3\ex2\ex1 \(rq
.br
.I {iso(1) standard(0) curl(11188) mosi(3) default-transfer-syntax(2) version(1)}
.[
iso 11188-3
.]
.HP
.RB \(lq \ex28\exB4\ex57\ex3\ex3 \(rq
.br
.I {iso(1) standard(0) curl(11188) mosi(3) default-application-context(3)}
.[
iso 11188-3
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH ADDRESS FORMAT
.PP
The \fBaddr\fP structure (used in \fBt_bind\fP(3), \fBt_connect\fP(3), \fBt_accept\fP(3)) is a
combined naming and addressing data type, identifying one end or the other of the association.
The address part is a Presentation Address.  The calling and called addresses are required
parameters, while the use of a responding address is optional.
.PP
The name part (AP Title, AE Qualifier and the AP and AE invocation-identifiers) are always
optional.  ISO Directory facilities, when available, can relate the name parts (identifying
specific applications) to the addresses of the real locations where they can be accessed.
.PP
The general format of the \fBaddr\fP structure is described below, while its precise structure,
and, in particular, the contents of the Presentation Address, is implementation dependent.
.PP
The \fIbuf\fP part of the \fBaddr\fP structure is a \fBmodiaddr\fP structure defined as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct t_mosiaddr {
    t_uscalar_t flags;
    t_scalar_t osi_ap_inv_id;
    t_scalar_t osi_ae_inv_id;
    unsigned int osi_apt_len;
    unsigned int osi_aeq_len;
    unsigned int osi_paddr_len;
    unsigned char osi_addr[T_AP_MAX_ADDR];
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.sp
where:
.TP
.I flags
Indicates the validity of the contents of the invocation identifier fields within the structure.
One ore more of the following bits may be set:
.RS
.TP
.B T_OSI_AP_IID_BIT
When set, the contents of the \fIosi_ap_inv_id\fP field is valid.
.TP
.B T_OSI_AE_IID_BIT
When set, the contents of the \fIosi_ae_inv_id\fP field is valid.
.PP
Unused bits in the \fIflags\fP field must be set to zero by the user when creating a
\fBt_modiaddr\fP structure for sending, and should be ignored by the user on receipt.
.PP
In a \fBt_mosiaddr\fP structure, a bit set in \fIflags\fP indicates the present of the
corresponding invocation identifier in the PDU.  Similarly a bit not set indicates the absence of
the corresponding invocation identifier in the PDU.
.RE
.TP
.I osi_apt_len
The AP Title starts at \fIosi_addr[0]\fP and ends at \fIosi_addr[osi_apt_len-1]\fP.  The
application is responsible for encoding/decoding the contents of the AP Title (where the
contents does not include the enveloping tag and length).
.TP
.I osi_aeq_len
The AE Qualifier starts at \fIosi_addr[T_ALIGN(osi_apt_len)]\fP and ends at
\fIosi_addr[T_ALIGN(osi_apt_len)+osi_aeq_len-1]\fP.  The application is responsible for
encoding/decoding the contents of the AE Qualifier (where the contents does not include the
enveloping tag and length).
.TP
.I osi_paddr_len
The Presentation Address starts at \fIosi_addr[T_ALIGN(osi_apt_len)+T_ALIGN(os_aeq_len)]\fP and
ends at \fIosi_addr[T_ALIGN(osi_apt_len)+T_ALIGN(osi_aeq_len)+osi_paddr_len-1]\fP.  The
application is responsible for encoding/decoding the contents of the AP Title (where the contents
does not include the enveloping tag and length).
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Options are formatted according to the \fBt_opthdr\fP structure as described in
\fBt_optmgmt\fP(3).  An OSI provider compliant to this \fBXTI-mOSI\fP specification supports all, none
or a subset of the options defined in ACSE/Presentation Connection-mode Service.  An
implementation may restrict the use of any of the options by offering them in privileged or
read-only mode.
.PP
Options can be \fIabsolute\0requirments\fP and can also be of \fIend-to-end\0significance\fP as
follows:
.TP
.I Absolute\0Requirements
Options that are \fIabsolute\0requirements\fP, mean that when the option is negotiated with the
transport service provider, the transport service provider is not permitted to negotiate the
option to a value with differing quality of service.  Either the proposed value is accepted or it
is rejected.  Options that are not \fIabsolute\0requirements\fP, can be negotiated by the
transport provider to a different quality of service level and it is the responsibility of the
transport service user to determine whether the negotiated value is sufficient.
.TP
.I End-to-End\0Significance
Options that are of \fIend-to-end\0significance\fP are options that require negotiation with, or
are communicated to, the peer transport provider or user.  For example, options that are
requested in a connect request, \fBT_CONN_REQ\fP(7), primitive will be indicated at the peer in a
connection indication, \fBT_CONN_IND\fP(7), primitive.  Options that are not of
\fIend-to-end\0significance\fP are of local significance only and can be negotiated directly
between the local transport service user and the local transport service provider.
.PP
A \fBXTI-mOSI\fP transport provider supports at least six levels of options.  These six levels are
described below.
.\"
.SS XTI_GENERIC
.PP
Options with this level are specific to the X/Open Transport Interface (XTI/TLI)
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
and are common to all transport providers.  For information see
.BR xti (3).
.TP
.B XTI_DEBUG
Sets debugging flags for the Stream.  This option is formatted as an array of
.BR t_uscalar_t .
Legal values are implementation defined.  For more information, see
.BR xti (3).
.TP
.B XTI_RCVLOWAT
Sets whether, and the amount of time, if, the Stream will linger waiting for unsent data to be
delivered.  This option is formatted as a
.B t_linger
structure as follows:
.RS
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct t_linger {
    t_scalar_t l_onoff;
    t_scalar_t l_linger;
};\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\fIl_linger\fR\(em'u
.I l_onoff
Specifies whether to linger
.RB ( T_YES )
or not
.RB ( T_NO ).
Legal values are
.BR T_YES " and " T_NO .
.PD 0
.TP
.I l_linger
Specifies the amount of time (in seconds) to linger.  Legal values are \fBT_INFINITE\fP,
\fBT_UNSPEC\fP and all positive numbers including zero.
.PD
.PP
For more information, see \fBxti\fP(3).
.RE
.TP
.B XTI_RCVBUF
Specifies the size, in bytes, of the received buffer.  This option is formated as a
\fBt_uscalar_t\fP.  Legal values are all positive, non-zero numbers.  For more information, see
\fBxti\fP(3).
.TP
.B XTI_RCVLOWAT
Specifies the low water mark above which received data will be indicated and delivered to the
user.  This option is formatted as a \fBt_uscalar_t\fP.  Legal values are all positive numbers,
non-zero numbers.  For more information, see \fBxti\fP(3).
.TP
.B XIT_SNDBUF
Specifies the size, in bytes, of the transmit buffer.  This option is formatted as a
\fBt_uscalar_t\fP.  Legal values are all positive, non-zero numbers.  For more information, see
\fBxti\fP(3).
.TP
.B XTI_SNDLOWAT
Specifies the low water mark above which queued data will be transmitted to the peer.  This
option is formatted as a \fBt_uscalar_t\fP.  Legal values are all positive, non-zero numbers.
For more information, see \fBxti\fP(3).
.\"
.SS ACSE/Presentation Layer
.PP
For the default abstract syntax, transfer syntax and application context, \fBXTI-mOSI\fP uses
object identifiers which are specified in the profile (ISO/IEC ISP 11188-3).
.[
x638
.]
.TP
.B T_AP_CNTX_NAME
Application Context Name.
An application context name identifies a set of tasks to be performed by an application.  It is
exchanged during the association establishment with the purpose of conveying a common
understanding of the work to be done.  This parameter is exposed to offer some negotiation
capabilities to the application and increase the chances of interoperability.  When receiving a
non-suitable or unknown value from a peer application, the application may propose an alternate
value or decide to terminate prematurely the association.  A default value (in the form of an
Object Identifier) is provided, identifying a generic \fBXTI-mOSI\fP application.  Its value can be
found in XNS
.[
xns99
.]
Section H.5 on page 313, or in X.638 Annex F.
.[
x638
.]
.sp
The default Application Context for \fBXTI-mOSI\fP is the OBJECT IDENTIFIER:
.IR "{ iso(1) standard(0) curl(11188) mosi(3) default-application-context(3) }"
or
.BR "28 B4 57 03 03" ,
.[
x638
.]
which can be coded as \(lq\ex28\exB4\ex57\ex3\ex3\(rq, as it is in the symbolic constant
\fBT_AP_CNTX_NAME_DEFAULT\fP.  This application context supports
the execution of any application using the default abstract syntax for \fBXTI-mOSI\fP.
.TP
.B T_AP_PCL
Presentation Context Definition and Result List.
.RS
.PP
.B Presentation Contexts.
A presentation context is the association of an abstract syntax with a transfer syntax.  The
presentation context is used by the application to identify how the data is structured and by the
OSI Application Layer to identify how the data should be encoded/decoded.  A generic presentation
context is defined for a stream-oriented, unstructured, data transfer service with null encoding.
The value of the Object Identifiers for this generic presentation context can be found in XNS
.[
xns99
.]
Section H.5 on page 313, or in X.638 Annex F.
.[
x638
.]
.PP
.IR "Abstract Syntax" :
the single data type of this abstract syntax is a sequence of octets that are defined in the
application protocol specification as being consecutive octets on a stream-oriented transport
mechanism, without regard for any semantic or other boundaries.
.PP
The default Abstract Syntax for
\fBXTI-mOSI\fP is the OBJECT IDENTIFIER:
.IR "{ iso(1) standard(0) curl(11188) mosi(3) default-abstract-syntax(1) version(1) }"
or
.BR "28 B4 57 03 01 01" ,
.[
x638
.]
which can be coded as \(lq\ex28\exB4\ex57\ex3\ex1\ex1\(rq, as it is in the symbolic constant
\fBT_AP_ABST_SNTX_DEFAULT\fP.
This object identifier can be used as the abstract syntax when the application protocol (above
ACSE) can be treated as single presentation data values (PDVs).  Each PDV is a sequence of
consecutive octets without regard for semantic or other boundaries.  The object identifier may
also be used when, for pragmatic reasons, the actual abstract syntax of the application is not
identified in Presentation Layer neogiation.
.IP \fBNotes:\fP \w'\fBNotes:\fP\(em'u
.RS
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
Applications specified using ASN.1 should not use the default abstract syntax.
.IP 2.
As this object identifier is used by all applications using the default abstract syntax for
\fBXIT-mOSI\fP, it cannot be used to differentiate between applications.  One of the ACSE
parameters; for example, AE Title or Presentation address, may be use to differentiate between
applications.
.RE
.PP
.IR "Transfer Syntax" :
the data value shall be represented as an octet-aligned presentation data value.  If two or more
data values are concatenated together, they are considered to be a single (longer) data value.
(This is the null encoding rule.)
.PP
The default transfer syntax and the abstract syntax are
identical, the OBJECT IDENTIFIER for the default abstract syntax is used.  If they are not
identical, the OBJECT IDENTIFIER for the default transfer syntax is:
.IR "{ iso(1) standard(0) curl(11188) mosi(3) default-transfer-syntax(2) version(1) }"
or
.BR "28 B4 57 03 02 01" ,
.[
x638
.]
which can be coded as \(lq\ex28\exB4\ex57\ex3\ex2\ex1\(rq, as it is in the symbolic constant
\fBT_AP_TRAN_SNTX_DEFAULT\fP.
If the default transfer syntax and the abstract syntax are identical, the OBJECT IDENTIFIER for
the default abstract syntax is used.  If they are not identical, the OBJECT IDENTIFIER for the
default transfer syntax is used.
.IP \fBNote:\fP \w'\fBNote:\fP\(em'u
In the presentation data value of the PDV list of Presentation Protocol or in the encoding of
User Information of ACSE Protocol, only \fIoctet-aligned\fP or \fIarbitrary\fP can be used for
default transfer syntax for \fBXTI-mOSI\fP.  \fISingle-ASN1-type\fP cannot be used for default
transfer syntax for \fBXTI-mOSI\fP.
.PP
.PP
The value of the Object Identifiers for this generic presentation context are described.
.PP
Presentation Context Definition and Result List, Defined Context Set.
As negotiation occurs between the peer OSI Application layers, the presentation context(s)
proposed by the application may not be accepted.  The Presentation Context Definition and Result
List indicates, for each of the proposed presentation contexts, it if is accepted or, if not,
provides a reason code; the application may choose to terminate the association prematurely if it
does not suit its requirements.
.RE
.\"
.SS T_ISP_APCO
.TP
.B T_AP_CNTX_NAME
Application Context Name.
A default value (for a generic \fBXTI-mOSI\fP application) is provided.  The application may
choose to propose, through this option, a value different from the default one.  The application
may also use this option to check the value returned by the peer application and decide if the
association should be kept or terminated.
.sp
This option is of end-to-end significance.  It may be negotiated in the XTI states T_IDLE and
T_INCON, and are read-only in all other states except T_UNINT.
.TP
.B T_AP_PCL
.B Presentation Context Definition and Result List.
A default is provided: a list with one presentation context (the stream-oriented, unstructured, data
transfer service with null encoding).  The abstract syntax is the default abstract syntax and the
transfer syntax is the default transfer syntax.  The codes for the result of negotiation and reason
for rejection are defined.  The responding application, after reading this option, may choose to
continue or terminate the association.  Only a single abstract syntax and transfer syntax can be
used by \fBXTI-mOSI\fP.  On \fBt_accept\fP(3), this is assumed to be the first usable abstract
syntax and the first transfer syntax for that abstract syntax.
.sp
When initiating a connection, the application proposes one or more presentation contexts, each
comprising an abstract syntax and one or more transfer syntaxes in the Presentation Control
Definition and Result List option (or omits this option to select the CULR-3
.[
x638
.]
defaults), and issues a \fBt_connect\fP(3).  If the connection is accepted, the Presentation
Context Definition and Result List is updated to reflect the results of negotiation of each
element of the context list, and a single presentation context is selected.  Note: if the
responder accepts multiple presentation contexts, the \fBXTI-mOSI\fP provider aborts the
connection on receipt of the A-ASSOCIATE confirm.  When responding to a remote connect, the
application can specifically mark presentation contexts as rejected using the \fIres\fP field,
and can re-order the syntax array to select a single transfer syntax.  On calling
\fBt_accept\fP(3), the first presentation context marked as accepted is selected, and all other
contexts omitted or not marked rejected-user are marked by the provider as rejected
(T_PCL_PREJ_LMT_DCS_EXCEED).  In an accepted context, the provider will accept the first (r only
remaining) transfer syntax.  Note: on return to the application from \fBt_listen\fP(), all
supportable presentation context are marked as accepted in the \fBT_AP_PCL\fP option, and all
unsupportable contexts are marked as rejected-provider.  This permits the application to return
the same option value on \fBt_accept\fP(3) (or leave it unchanged) to select the first available
abstract syntax and transfer syntax.
.sp
This option is of end-to-end significance.
It may be negotiated in the XTI states T_IDLE and T_INCON, and are read-only in all other states
except T_UNINT.
.\"
.SS T_ISO_APCL
.PP
.TP
.B T_AP_CNTX_NAME
.B Application Context Name.
A default value (for a generic \fBXTI-mOSI\fP application) is provided.  The application may
choose to propose, through this option, a value different from the default one.  The application
may also use this option to check the value returned by the peer application and decide if the
datagram should be kept or discarded.
.sp
This option is of end-to-end significance.  It may be negotiated in all XTI states except
T_UNINIT.
.TP
.B T_AP_PCL
Presentation Context Definition and Result List, Defined Context Set As negotiation occurs
between the peer OSI Application layers, the presentation context(s) proposed by the application
may not be accepted.
.sp
The Presentation Context Definition and Result List indicates, for each of the proposed
presentation context, if it is accepted or, if not, provides a reason code; the application may
choose to terminate the association prematurely if it does not suit its requirements.
.sp
In the connection-less mode, the transfer syntaxes are not negotiated.  Their use is determined by
the sending application entity, and must be acceptable by the receiving application entity.  A
default value is provided by XTI: a list with one element, the generic presentation context (the
stream-oriented, unstructured, data transfer service with null encoding).  The corresponding
abstract and transfer syntaxes are specified.
.sp
Only a single abstract syntax and transfer syntax can be used by connectionless-mode
\fBXTI-mOSI\fP.  If more than one presentation context is present in the options list for
\fBt_sndudata\fP(3), the first is used.
.sp
This option is of end-to-end significance.
It may be negotiated in all XTI states except T_UNINIT.
.\"
.SS T_ISO_TP
.PP
Some of the options defined for the XTI ISO Transport Connection-mode Service or Transport
Connectionless-mode Service may be made available to \fBXTI-mOSI\fP users: e.g\&., the options
for Quality of service.  The quality of service parameters are passed directly by the OSI Upper
Layers to the Transport Layer.  These options can thus be used to specify OSI Upper Layers
quality of service parameters via XTI.  XTI ISO Transport Service options are registered at level
\fBT_ISO_TP\fP, see \fBxti_osi\fP(3).  This facility is implementation dependent and an attempt
to specify an unsupported option will return with the status field set to \fBT_NOTSUPPORT\fP.
None of these options are available with an ISO-over-TCP (RFC 1006)
.[
rfc1006
.]
.[
rfc2126
.]
transport provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH STRUCTURES
.PP
The Presentation Context Definition and Result List option is used to propose a presentation
context, giving its abstract and transfer syntax, and to hold the result of negotiation of a
presentation context.
.\"
.SS Presentation Context Structure
.PP
The presentation context definition and result list option is a variable size option consisting
of a \fBt_scalar_t\fP given the number of presentation contexts followed by an array of that
number of presentation context item offset elements.  Each element is defined as:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct t_ap_pco_el {
    t_scalar_t count;
    t_scalar_t offset;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Each presentation context items offset element gives: the \fIcount\fP of syntax entries in the
presentation context item (including the abstract syntax entry) and the \fIoffset\fP of the
presentation context item from the beginning of the Presentation Context Definition and Result
List option value.
.\"
.SS Presentation Context Item Header
.PP
Each presentation context item consists of a header followed by an array.  The header is defined
as:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct t_ap_pc_item {
    t_scalar_t pci;    /* Unique odd integer. */
    t_scalar_t res;    /* Result of negotiation. */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.sp
where \fIpci\fP is a unique odd integer (if this is zero in the \fIsndcall\fP argument of
\fBt_connect\fP(3), the provider will substitute an appropriate value), and \fIres\fP is the
result of negotiation.
.TP
.I res
The \fIres\fP member contains the results associated with a Presentation Context list item and
can assume on of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B T_PCL_ACCEPT
Presentation context accepted.
.PD 0
.TP
.B T_PCL_USER_REJ
Presentation context rejected by peer application.
.TP
.B T_PCL_PREJ_RSN_NSPEC
Provider reject: no reason specified.
.TP
.B T_PCL_PREJ_A_SYTX_NSUP
Provider reject: abstract syntax not supported.
.TP
.B T_PCL_PREJ_T_SYTX_NSUP
Provider reject: transfer syntax not supported.
.TP
.B T_PCL_PREJ_LMT_DCS_EXCEED
Provider reject: local limit on DCS exceeded.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.SS Presentation Context Item Element
.PP
The array of syntax offset elements immediately follows the header.  Each element is defined as:
.sp
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
struct t_ap_syn_off {
    t_scalar_t size;   /* Length of syntax object identifier contents. */
    t_scalar_t offset; /* Offset of object identifier for the syntax. */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.sp
where \fIsize\fP is the length of the syntax object identifier contents, and \fIoffset\fP is the
offset of the object identifier for the syntax from the beginning of the Presentation Context
Definition and Result List option value.
.PP
The first element in the array of syntax offset elements refers to the abstract syntax the second
to the first transfer syntax, and so on.
.\"
.\"
.SH FUNCTIONS
.PP
Functions \fIrcvreldata\fP() (see \fBt_rcvreldata\fP(3)) and \fIsndreldata\fP() (see
\fBt_sndreldata\fP(3)) were introduced as part of this \fBXTI-mOSI\fP functionality.  The
rationale for this is that for ISO ACSE providing an orderly release mechanism, user data is a
parameter of the release service, so when mapping XTI primitives to ACSE/Presentation
(\fBXTI-mOSI\fP), disconnection user data may be received from peer applications.  Although
abortive release primitives (\fBt_snddis\fP(3), \fBt_rcvdis\fP(3)) permit sending and receiving
user data, orderly release primitives (\fBt_sndrel\fP(3), \fBt_rcvrel\fP(3)) do not.  Therefore,
new functions having a user data parameter \fBt_rcvreldata\fP(3) and \fBt_sndreldata\fP(3) were
added to provide the necessary support to handle this user data.
.TP
.BR t_accept (3)
If \fIfd\fP is not equal to \fIresfd\fP, \fIresfd\fP should either be in state \fBT_UNBND\fP or
be in state \fBT_IDLE\fP with the \fIqlen\fP parameter set to zero (\fB0\fP).
.sp
The \fIaddr\fP parameter passed to/returned from \fBt_bind\fP(3) when \fIresfd\fP is bound may be
different from the \fIaddr\fP parameter corresponding to \fIfd\fP.
.sp
The \fIopt\fP parameter may be used to change the Application Context Name received.
.TP
.BR t_alloc (3)
No special considerations for \fBXTI-mOSI\fP providers.
.TP
.BR t_bind (3)
The \fIaddr\fP field of the \fBt_bind\fP structure represents the local presentation address and
optionally the local AP Title, AE Qualifier, AP and AE invocation-identifiers (see
\*(lq\fIOPTIONS\fP,\*(rq for more details).
.sp
This local \fIaddr\fP field is used, depending on the XTI primitive, as the calling, called or
responding address, the called address being different from the responding address only when two
different file descriptors (\fIfd\fP, \fIresfd\fP), bound to different addresses, are used.
.TP
.BR t_close (3)
Any connections that are still active at the endpoint are abnormally terminated.  The peer
applications will be informed of the disconnection by a
.RB [ T_DISCONNECT ]
event.  The value of the disconnection reason will be \fBT_AC_P_ABRT_NSPEC\fP.
.TP
.BR t_connect (3)
The \fIsndcall->addr\fP structure specifies the Called Presentation Address.  The
\fIrcvcall->addr\fP structure specifies the Responding Presentation Address.  The structure may
also be used to assign values for the Called AP Title, Called AE Qualifier, Called AP
invocation-identifier and Called AE invocation-identifier.
.sp
Before the call, the \fIsndcall->opt\fP structure may be used to request an Application Context
Name or Presentation Context different from the default value.
.TP
.BR t_error (3)
No special considerations for \fBXTI-mOSI\fP providers.
.TP
.BR t_free (3)
No special considerations for \fBXTI-mOSI\fP providers.
.TP
.BR t_getinfo (3)
The information supported by \fBt_getinfo\fP(3) reflects the characteristics of the transport
connection, or if no connection is established, the default characteristics of the underlying OSI
layers.  In all possible states except \fBT_DATAXFER\fP, the function \fBt_getinfo\fP(3) returns
in the parameter \fIinfo\fP the same information as was returned by \fBt_open\fP(3).  In state
\fBT_DATAXFER\fP, however, the information returned in \fIinfo->connect\fP and \fIinfo->discon\fP
may differ.
.sp
The parameter of the \fBt_getinfo\fP(3) function are summarized in the table below:
.sp
.TS
box center tab(:);
cb|cb|cbs
cb|cb|cbs
cb|cb|cb|cb
li|c|c|c.
Parameters:Before:After\0Call\0(mode)
:Call:_
::Connection:Connectionless
_
fd:x:/:/
info->addr:/:x:x
info->options:/:x:x
info->tsdu:/:T_INFINITE(-1):T_INFINITE(-1)
info->etsdu:/:T_INVALID(-2):T_INVALID(-2)
info->connect:/:x:T_INVALID(-2)
info->discon:/:x:T_INVALID(-2)
info->servtype:/:T_COTS_ORD:T_CLTS
info->flags:/:0:0
.TE
.sp
\fBx\fP equals an integral number greater than 0.
.sp
The values of the parameters in the \fBt_info\fP structure for the \fBt_getinfo\fP(3) function
reflect the \fBXTI-mOSI\fP provider particularities.
.sp
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.IR connect ", " discon
.sp
The values returned in \fIinfo->connect\fP and \fIinfo->discon\fP in state \fBT_DATAXFER\fP may
differ from the value returned by \fBt_open\fP(3): negotiation takes place during association
establishment and, as a result, these values may be reduced.  For \fIinfo->connect\fP, this change
of value may be indicated by the provider, but is of little use to the application.
.IP \(bu
.I flags
.sp
\fBXTI-mOSI\fP does not support the sending of TSDUs of zero length, so this value equals zero (0).
.RE
.TP
.BR t_getprotaddr (3)
The protocol addresses are naming and addressing parameters as defined in \*(lq\fIGeneral and Option
Data Types and Structures\fP\*(rq.
.TP
.BR t_getstate (3)
No special considerations for \fBXTI-mOSI\fP providers.
.TP
.BR t_listen (3)
The \fIcall->addr\fP structure contains the remote Calling Presentation Address and the remote
Calling AP Title, AE Qualifier, and AP and AE invocation identifiers if received.
.sp
Incoming user data encoded as multiple presentation data values will cause the \fBTBADDATA\fP error
to be returned.
.TP
.BR t_look (3)
Since expedited data is not supported for a \fBXTI-mOSI\fP provider, \fBT_EXDATA\fP and \fBT_GOEXDATA\fP
events cannot occur.
.TP
.BR t_open (3)
.BR t_open (3)
is called as the first step in the initialization of a transport endpoint.  This function returns
various default characteristics oft the underlying OSI layers.
.sp
The parameters of the \fBt_open\fP(3) function are summarized in the table below:
.sp
.TS
box center tab(:);
cb|cb|cbs
cb|cb|cbs
cb|cb|cb|cb
li|c|c|c.
Parameters:Before:After\0Call\0(mode)
:Call:_
::Connection:Connectionless
_
name:x:/:/
oflag::/:/
info->addr:/:x:x
info->options:/:x:x
info->tsdu:/:T_INFINITE(-1):T_INFINITE(-1)
info->etsdu:/:T_INVALID(-2):T_INVALID(-2)
info->connect:/:x:T_INVALID(-2)
info->discon:/:x:T_INVALID(-2)
info->servtype:/:T_COTS_ORD:T_CLTS
info->flags:/:0:0
.TE
.sp
\fBx\fP equals an integral number greater than zero (0).
.sp
The values of the parameters in the \fBt_info\fP structure reflect \fBXTI-mOSI\fP limitations as follows:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.IR connect ", " discon
.sp
These values are limited by the version of the session supported by the \fBXTI-mOSI\fP provider, and are
generally much larger than those supported by an ISO Transport or TCP provider.
.IP \(bu
.I flags
.sp
\fBXTI-mOSI\fP does not support sending TSDU of zero length, so this value equals 0.
.sp
.TP \w'\fBNote:\fP\(em'u
.B Note:
The \fIname\fP (device file) parameter passed to\fBt_open\fP(3) will differ when the application
accesses an \fBXTI-mOSI\fP provider or an ISO Transport provider.
.RE
.TP
.BR t_optmgmt (3)
The options available with \fBXTI-mOSI\fP providers are described in the section
\*(lq\fIOptions\fP.\*(rq
.TP
.BR t_rcv (3)
The \fIflags\fP parameter will never be set to [\fBT_EXPEDITED\fP], as expedited data transfer is
not supported.
.TP
.BR t_rcvconnect (3)
The \fIcall->addr\fP structure specifies the remote Responding Presentation Address, and the
remote responding AP Title, AE Qualifier, and AP and AE invocation identifiers if received.
.sp
The \fIcall->opt\fP structure may also contain an Application Context Name and/or Presentation
Context Definition Result List.
.TP
.BR t_rcvdis (3)
Possible values for disconnect reason codes are specified in \*(lq\fIOption Data Types and
Structures\fP.\*(rq
.TP
.BR t_rcvrel (3)
With this primitive, user data cannot be received on normal release: any user data in the
received flow is discarded (see \fBt_rcvreldata\fP(3)).
.TP
.BR t_rcvudata (3)
The \fIunitdata->addr\fP structure specifies the remote Presentation Address, and optionally the
remote AP Title, AE Qualifier, AP and AE invocation-identifiers.  If the \fBT_MORE\fP flag is
set, an additional \fBt_rcvudata\fP(3) call is needed to retrieve the entire A-UNIT-DATA service
unit.  Only normal data is returned via the \fBt_rcvudata\fP(3) call.
.TP
.BR t_rcvuderr (3)
This function is not supported by a \fBXTI-mOSI\fP provider since badly formed A-UNIT-DATA APDUs
are discarded.
.TP
.BR t_snd (3)
Zero-length TSDUs are not supported.
.sp
Since expedited data transfer is not supported for a \fBXTI-mOSI\fP provider, the parameter flags
shall not have [\fBT_EXPEDITED\fP] set.
.TP
.BR t_snddis (3)
No special considerations for \fBXTI-mOSI\fP providers.
.TP
.BR t_sndrel (3)
With this primitive, user data cannot be sent on normal release (see \fBt_sndreldata\fP(3)).
.TP
.BR t_strerror (3)
No special considerations for \fBXTI-mOSI\fP providers.
.TP
.BR t_sync (3)
No special considerations for \fBXTI-mOSI\fP providers.
.TP
.BR t_unbind (3)
No special considerations for \fBXTI-mOSI\fP providers.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.SS Layering for mOSI implementations
.PP
The services and protocols for the upper three layers of OSI are specified
separately.  However, considerable efficiency cna be gained if all thre
protocol machines are combined as one module and not as three separate modules
requiring the definition of formal interfaces between them.  This is
especially tru if operating system context switches occur when transferrring
between different modules.
.IP \fBNote:\fP \w'\fBNote:\fP\(em'u
Currently there are not formally defined interfaces for session and
presentation.
.PP
Combining layer protocol machines applies not only to mOSI implementations,
but also to all OSI upper layer implementations.
.PP
However, combining layers precludes testing them individually.  Individual
layer testing is not recommended.  The three upper layer protocols provide an
integerated set of services; these services are not useful individually.
.SS PDU generation for mOSI implementations
.PP
mOSI supports uncomplicated application protocols; i.e\&. byte stream or
simple record oriented data transfer (that probably consitutes 95 to 99% of
user application protocols).  Therefore, the encoding of embedded PDU headers
(PCI) for all three protocols is uniform.  Using pre-defined protocol headers
allows significant gains in protocol machine efficiency.  This is especially
true for data PDUs\(emthe PDUs that generally constitute the majority of PDUs
exchanged.
.PP
The Internet RFC 1698 on \(lqOctet Sequences for Upper-Layer OSI to support
Basic COmmunications Applications\(rq
.[
rfc1698
.]
is an example of explicit pre-defined PDU encodings for mOSI implementations.
The RFC contains a full description of this technieque including BER encodings
of PDUs.
.SS Parsing incoming protocol for mOSI
.PP
An upper layer protoocl machine that only supports the facilities defined in
mOSI need only recognize a very limited subset of all potential OSI-PDU
sequences.  In particular, they need not recognize any non-mOSI protocol
sequences and these may be treated as unrecognized PDUs.  The receipt of an
unrecognized PDU results in a protocol error and in the release of the
association.  This does not lessen the utility of the implementation but it
does reduce the amount of code needed for error handling.
.PP
Note: It is always legal for an OSI protocol to abort an association.
.SS Interfaces for mOSI implementations
.PP
Portability for an mOSI implementation can be significantly enhanced through
the use of X/Open's XTI interfaces.  XTI provides a generic interface for
connect/disconnec and send/receive.  The XTI inteface is explicitly for BCA.
The XTI for mOSI interface
.[
xti revision 1.0
.]
.[
xns 5.2
.]
provides a common interface for networked applications.  It simplifies
migration of networked applications from one open networking environment to
another.
.PP
The standard XTI can be used to provide transport services to an mOSI
implementation, thus making an mOSI implementation easily portable to any
network transport supporting XTI, e.g\&. Internet, NetBIOS, and a number of
proprietary networks.  Thus XTI can be used both to interface mOSI to a
network transport service and to provide mOSI services to networked
applications.

.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.SS Upper Layer FUs, Versions and Protocol Mechanisms
.PP
The implementation negotiates:
.TP
.I Session:
Kernel, Full Duplex, Version 2, or Version 1 if Version 2 not supported, no segmentation.
.sp
Other session protocol mechanisms are out of scope, except Basic Concatenation which is mandatory
and transparent to the application.
.TP
.I Presentation:
Kernel, Normal Mode.
.TP
.I ACSE:
Kernel.
.PP
If invalid (non-negotiable) options are requested by the peer and detected by the provider once
the association is already established (such as the ACSE presentation context missing in the
Defined Context Set), the association is rejected via a A-(P)-ABORT generated by the
implementation.
.\"
.SS Mandatory and Optional Parameters
.PP
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If the Local Presentation Address is not passed to \fBt_bind\fP(3) in \fIreq->addr\fP, then it is
returned in \fIret->addr\fP.
.IP \(bu
The remove (called) Presentation Address (in \fBt_connect\fP(3), \fIsndcall->addr\fP) parameter
must be explicitly set by the application.
.IP \(bu
The following parameters are mandatory for the protocol machine, but default values are provided.
If the application does not wish to set the corresponding parameter, the default value will be
used.  The default value may be changed through \fBt_optmgmt\fP(3) (see \*(lq\fIOptions\fP\*(rq):
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Application Context Name (\fIopt\fP parameter).
.IP \(bu
Presentation Context List (\fIopt\fP parameter).
.sp
The presentation context of ACSE is required and used.  The user should not request it as the
implementation will insert it automatically in the context list.
.sp
If the user does not specifically request an Application Context Name via the \fIopt\fP parameter
of \fBt_accept\fP(3) (that is, for the A-ASSOCIATE.response), the implementation uses the
Application Context Name that was received in the A-ASSOCIATE.indication.
.RE
.IP \(bu
The following parameters are optional for the protocol and default values of null are defined.
If the application does not set them otherwise, they are omitted from the outgoing protocol
stream.
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
local AP-title (in \fBt_bind\fP(3), \fIreq->addr\fP)
.IP \(bu
called AP-title (in \fBt_connect\fP(3), \fIsndcall->addr\fP)
.IP \(bu
responding AP-title (if \fBt_accept\fP(3) specifies a new accepting endpoint \fIresfd\fP, in the
protocol address bound to \fIresfd\fP)
.IP \(bu
local AE-qualifier (in \fBt_bind\fP(3),  \fIreq->addr\fP)
.IP \(bu
called AE-qualifier (in \fBt_connect\fP(3), \fIsndcall->addr\fP)
.IP \(bu
responding AE-qualifier (if \fBt_accept\fP(3) specifies a new accepting endpoint \fIresfd\fP, in
the protocol address bound to \fIresfd\fP)
.IP \(bu
local AP and AE invocation-identifiers (in \fBt_bind\fP(3), \fIreq->addr\fP)
.IP \(bu
called AP and AE invocation-identifiers (in \fBt_connect\fP(3), \fIsndcall->addr\fP)
.IP \(bu
responding AP and AE invocation-identifiers (if \fBt_accept\fP(3) specifies a new accepting
endpoint \fIresfd\fP, in the protocol address bound to \fIresfd\fP)
.RE
.IP \(bu
The following parameters are optional for the protocol machine and not supported through the XTI
interface.  Their handling is implementation-defined. Received values in the incoming protocol
stream, if any, are discarded:
.RS
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
ACSE Protocol Version (default is Version 1).
.IP \(bu
Presentation Protocol Version (default is Version 1).
.IP \(bu
ACSE Implementation Information.
.IP \(bu
Session connection identifiers.
.PP
During association establishment (that is, before the \fBXTI-mOSI\fP provider negotiates
acceptance of a single abstract syntax/transfer syntax pair), an \fBXTI-mOSI\fP application
initiating the association will only send a single presentation data value in the user
information parameter.  The \fBXTI-mOSI\fP provider will insure that the first abstract syntax
and transfer syntax pair being negotiated is the one required for its encoding.
.RE
.\"
.SS Mapping XTI Functions to ACSE/Presentation Services
.PP
In the following tables, the definition of which parameters are mandatory and which are optional
can be found in ISO/IEC ISP 11188 - Common Upper Layers Requirements, part 3 (see CULR).
.[
iso isp 11188-3
.]
.PP
.B Connection-mode Services
.PP
.B Association Establishment (successful, unsuccessful)
.PP
.TS
box center tab(:);
cb|cb
l|l.
XTI call/Parameter:Service/Parameter
_
t_connect:A-ASSOCIATE req
  sndcall->addr:  Called Presentation Address
  sndcall->addr(1):  Called AP Title
  sndcall->addr(1):  Called AE Qualifier
  sndcall->addr:  Called AP invocation-identifier
  sndcall->addr:  Called AE invocation-identifier
  sndcall->opt(2):  Application Context Name
  sndcall->opt(3):  P-context Definition and Result List
  sdncall->udata:  User Information
t_bind:
  req|ret->addr:  Calling Presentation Address
  req|ret->addr:  Calling AP Title
  req|ret->addr:  Calling AE Qualifier
_
t_listen:A-ASSOCIATE ind
  call->addr:  Calling Presentation Address
  call->addr(1):  Calling AP Title
  call->addr(1):  Calling AE Qualifier
  call->opt:  Application Context Name
  call->opt(4):  P-context Definition and Result List
  call->udata:  User Information
t_bind:
  req|ret->addr:  Called Presentation Address
  req|ret->addr(1):  Called AP Title
  req|ret->addr(1):  Called AE Qualifier
  req|ret->addr:  Calling AP invocation-identifier
  req|ret->addr:  Calling AE invocation-identifier
_
t_accept:A-ASSOCIATE rsp+
  call->addr:  Calling Presentation Address
  call->opt:  Application Context Name
  call->opt:  P-context Definition and Result List
  call->udata:  User Information
{internal}:
  \*(lqaccepted\*(rq:  Result
t_bind:
  req|ret->addr:  Responding Presentation Address
  req|ret->addr(1):  Responding AP Title
  req|ret->addr(1):  Responding AE Qualifier
  req|ret->addr:  Responding AP invocation-identifier
  req|ret->addr:  Responding AE invocation-identifier
_
not sent:A-ASSOCIATE rsp-
_
t_connect:A-ASSOCIATE cnf+
  call->addr:  Responding Presentation Address
  call->addr:  Responding AP Title
  call->addr:  Responding AE Qualifier
  call->addr:  Responding AP invocation-identifier
  call->addr:  Responding AE invocation-identifier
  call->opt:  Application Context Name
  call->opt:  P-context Definition and Result List
  call->udata:  User Information
{discarded}:
  \*(lqaccepted\*(rq:  Result
  \*(lqACSE service-user\*(rq:  Result Source-diagnostic
_
t_rcvdis:A-ASSOCIATE cnf-
  discon->udata:  User Information
  discon->reason(5):  Result
{internal}:
  ACSE serv-user|pres serv-prov:  Result Source-diagnostic
{discarded}:
:  Application Context Name
:  P-context Definition and Result List
.TE
.sp
.PP
Notes:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
If either the AP title or the AE qualifier is selected for sending, the other must be selected.
.IP 2.
.I sndcall->opt
or, if no option specified, default value
.IP 3.
.I sndcall->opt
or, if no option specified, default value, with ACSE added by provider
.IP 4.
.I call->opt
with ACSE context removed from the list passed to user
.IP 5.
Combines Result and Result Source-diagnostic.
.PP
.B Data Transfer
.PP
.TS
box center tab(:);
cb|cb
l|l.
XTI call/Parameter:Service/Parameter
_
t_snd:P-DATA req
  buf:  User Data
_
t_rcv:P-DATA ind
  buf:  User Data
.TE
.sp
.PP
.B Association Release (orderly, abortive)
.PP
This table makes the assumption that the \fBXTI-mOSI\fP provider supports the orderly release facility
with user data
.RB ( t_sndreldata "(3) and " t_rcvreldata (3)).
When this is not the case, User Information is not sent, Reason is supplied via an internal
mechanism with A-RELEASE request and response, User Information and Reason received in A-RELEASE
indication and confirmation are discarded.
.PP
.TS
box center tab(:);
cb|cb
l|l.
XTI call/Parameter:Service/Parameter
_
t_sndrel2:A-RELEASE req
  reldata->reason:  Reason
  reldata->udata:  User Information
_
t_rcvreldata:A-RELEASE ind
  reldata->reason:  Reason
  reldata->udata:  User Information
_
t_sndrel2:A-RELEASE rsp
  reldata->reason:  Reason
  reldata->udata:  User Information
_
t_rcvreldata:A-RELEASE cnf
  reldata->reason:  Reason
  reldata->udata:  User Information
_
t_snddis:A-ABORT req
  n/s:  Diagnostic
  call->udata:  User Information
_
t_rcvdis:A-ABORT ind
  discon->reason:  Diagnostic
  discon->udata:  User Information
_
t_rcvdis:A-P-ABORT ind
  discon->reason:  Diagnostic
.TE
.sp
.PP
.B Connectionless-mode Service
.PP
.TS
box center tab(:);
cb|cb
l|l.
XTI call/Parameter:Service/Parameter
_
t_sndudata:A-UNIT-DATA source
  unitdata->addr:  Called Presentation Address
  unitdata->addr:  Called AP Title
  unitdata->addr:  Called AE Qualifier
  unitdata->addr:  Called AP invocation-identifier
  unitdata->addr:  Called AE invocation-identifier
  unitdata->opt(1):  Application Context Name
  unitdata->opt(2):  P-context Definition and Result List
  unitdata->udata:  User Information
t_bind:
  req|ret->addr:  Calling Presentation Address
  req|ret->addr:  Calling AP Title
  req|ret->addr:  Calling AE Qualifier
  req|ret->addr:  Calling AP invocation-identifier
  req|ret->addr:  Calling AE invocation-identifier
_
t_rcvudata:A-UNIT-DATA sink
  uintdata->addr:  Calling Presentation Address
  uintdata->addr:  Calling AP Title
  uintdata->addr:  Calling AE Qualifier
  uintdata->addr:  Calling AP invocation-identifier
  uintdata->addr:  Calling AE invocation-identifier
  unitdata->opt:  Application Context Name
  unitdata->opt(3):  P-context Definition and Result List
  unitdata->udata:  User Information
t_bind:
  req|ret->addr:  Called Presentation Address
  req|ret->addr:  Called AP Title
  req|ret->addr:  Called AE Qualifier
  req|ret->addr:  Called AP invocation-identifier
  req|ret->addr:  Called AE invocation-identifier
.TE
.sp
.PP
Notes:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
.I unitdata->opt
or, if no option specified, default value
.IP 2.
.I unitdata->opt
or, if no option specified, default value, with ACSE added by provider
.IP 3.
.I unitdata->opt
with ACSE context removed from the list passed to user
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.SS Rationale for using XTI-mOSI
.PP
This specification uses the concept of a minimum set of OSI upper layer facilities that support
basic communication applications.  A Basic Communication Application simply requires the ability to
open and close comunications with a peer and to send and receive messages with a peer.
.PP
\fBXTI-mOSI\fP is designed specifically for Basic Comunication Applications that are in one of these
catiegories:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
applications that are to be migrated from the Internet world (TCP or UDP) or from a NetBIOS
enviroment to OSI;
.IP \(bu
applications accessing the OSI transport service that wish to migrate to an OSI seven-layer,
conformant environment; or,
.IP \(bu
applications that require a simple octet-stream connection between peer processes.  The benefit of
\fBXTI-mOSI\fP to these applications is that it extends the family of \fItransport services\fP that
are available via a single, protocol independent API.
.SS Migrant Applications
For the first kind of applications (those migrating to OSI or intended to work over a variety of
\fItransport\fP mechanisms), the migration effort will be greatly simplified if they were already
using \fBXTI\fP \(em \fBXTI-mOSI\fP offset several new options, but, as described lated in this section,
default values are generally provided.
.sp
In addition to application already using \fBXTI\fP, the X Window System (X) and Internel Protocol
Suite applications (in general) are examples of potential Migrant applications.
.SS OSI Functionality
\fBXTI-mOSI\fP is suited to applications that require only the Minimum Upper Layer facilties which
are described in the protocol ISO/EIC DISP 11188-3 \(em Common Upper Layer Requirements, part 3:
Minimal OSI uppser layer faciltiies, expected to reach International Standard Profile (ISP) status in
the first half of 1995.  These are:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
ACSE Kernel functional unit
.IP \(bu
Presentation Kernel functional unit
.IP \(bu
Session Kernel and Full Duplex functional units
.PP
The \fBXTI-mOSI\fP interface provides access to OSI ACSE and Presentation services.  With
\fBXTI-mOSI\fP, the optional parameters available to the application have been selected with the
intent of facilitating interoperability and diagnostic of problems.  They are described later in
this section.
.PP
Most applications only need the Kernel functionality.  This is even true for most of the OSI
standard applications: Remote Database Access (RDA), Directory (X.500), FTAM without recovery, OSI
Distributed Transaction Processing (TP) without 2-phase commitment, OSI Management.
.SS XTI-mOSI API versus XAP
.PP
X/Open has developed the XAP
.[
xap c303
.]
interface (ACSE/Presentation API), see \fBXAP\fP(3), to provide access to ACSE and Presentation
functionality.  It provides an interface that spans from implementations of minimal OSI through to
full ACSE/Presentation/Session with all functional units.  \fBXTI-mOSI\fP has been developed to
support migrant transport applications, and also applications that require a simple octet stream
connection between peers.  Application designers should consider which API is most apporpriate to
their needs.  Applications that are being ported from other transport providers, or require a simple
octet string connection, should use \fBXTI-mOSI\fP.  Applications that require session functional
units outside kernel, or which require multiple presentation contexts, or which may required
additional session/presentation by \fBXTI-mOSI\fP in the future, should us \fBXAP\fP(3).
.[
xap c303
.]
When only minimal OSI support is required, the user should consider the availability of
\fBXTI-mOSI\fP and \fBXAP\fP
.[
xap c303
.]
on target hardware platforms when selecting an interface.
.PP
\fBXTI-mOSI\fP is particularly well-suited to migration of OSI upper layers to non-OSI lower
layers supporting a minimal Presentation and Session layer such as LPP.
.[
rfc1085
.]
.[
rfc1278
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
There are a number of TCP devices providing the Transport Provider Interface that provides
\fBXTI-mOSI\fP conforming TPI devices as follows:
.PP
These devices are provided by the \fB@PACKAGE_TITLE@ (@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@)\fP package.  For more
information see the \fBXTI-mOSI\fP module, see \fBmosi\fP(4).
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
The \fB@PACKAGE_TITLE@\fP package provides a module that cooperates with a transport provider
conforming to the Transport Provider Interface (TPI).
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
The \fImosi\fP(4) module is pushed over such a TPI Stream and provides the \fBXTI-mOSI\fP
interface described here.  In general, the system may be configured so that particular device
names correspond to particular TPI drivers with the \fImosi\fP(4) module automatically pushed
over the Stream upon open, as in \fBautopush\fP(8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
\fBmOSI\fP has no known bugs.  The \fBMOSI\fP(4) implementation of \fBXI-MOSI\fP has been
conformance tested and validated using the \fBtest-mosi\fP(8) test case executable and the
\fB@PACKAGE@\0autotest\fP conformance and validation test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
In support of the \fBsockets\fP(3) library for \fBtpi\fP(7) transport providers, the options
described here have been made compatible with the socket options described in \fBx25\fP(7).  As a
result, depending on the release of \fBMOSI\fP(4), the XTI/TLI options described might not be
compatible with options described here.
.PP
The \fBLinux\fP socket version of X.25 described in \fBx25\fP(7), accessed using the TPI
interface of the \fBstrinet\fP package described in \fBstrinet\fP(5), supports all of the options
described here.
.PP
Earlier versions of the \fBMOSI\fP(4) driver did not support wild-card binds.  If an attempt was
made to bind to a wild-card address or port number, the bind would fail with [\fBTNOADDR\fP].
While this is correct behavior, it was not consistent with other \fBmOSI\fP implementations.
Recent version of the \fBMOSI\fP(4) driver include the ability to bind to wild-cards or to request
that the transport service provider assign a suitable address.
.PP
Including the <\fBxti.h\fP> head file may include the <\fBxti_mosi.h\fP> header file. Including
the <\fBxti_mosi.h\fP> header file may include the <\fBxti_osi.h\fP> header file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR MOSI (4),
.BR read (2s),
.BR readv (2s),
.BR x25 (4),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR t_accept (3),
.BR t_connect (3),
.BR T_CONN_REQ (7),
.BR t_errno (3),
.BR t_getinfo (3),
.BR timod (4),
.BR tirdwr (4),
.BR t_listen (3),
.BR T_OPTDATA_IND (7),
.BR t_optmgmt (3),
.BR t_rcvconnect (3),
.BR t_snddis (3),
.BR write (2s),
.BR writev (2s),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_osi (3),
.BR test-mosi (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
This interface is compatible with
.IR "XNS 5.2" ,
.[
xns99
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "XNS 5.2" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Internet Protocol (IP) options were not standardized until XPG4.
.[
xpg
.]
.IP \(em
The format of options for the Transport Provider Interface (TPI)
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
differ from those for the AT&T Transport Layer Interface (TLI).  This interface follows the TPI.
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IP \(em
The precise values of some options and format of primitives may differ from implementation to
implementation.  Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See \fBtpi\fP(7), \fBxti\fP(3) and \fISTREAMS\fP(4), for additional compatibility information.
See also, \fBapli\fP(7) and \fBxap\fP(3), for competing approaches.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The OpenGroup XNS Issue 5.2.
.[
xns99
.]
Conformance is validated using the \fBtest-mosi\fP8) test case executable and the
\fB@PACAKAGE@\0autotest\fP validation test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The \fITransport\0Provider\0Interface\0(TPI)\fP
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
was first created by AT&T as the \fITransport\0Layer\0Interface\0(TLI)\fP and was subsequently
standardized by \fBUNIX\0International\P and later by \fBThe\0OpenGroup\fP in XPG4
.[
xpg
.]
and XNS 5.2.
.[
xns99
.]
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
xns99
.]
.[
x638
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
