'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CD_ATTACH_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.3 2004/05/16 02:35:41 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/05/16 02:35:41 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CD_ATTACH_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/05/16 02:35:41 $" "$Name:  $" "Communications Device Interface (CDI)"
.SH NAME
.B CD_ATTACH_REQ
\- attach to a physical point of attachment
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_ppa;
} cd_attach_req_t;
.\"
.\"#define CD_STYLE1       0x00    /* PPA is implicitly bound */
.\"#define CD_STYLE2       0x01    /* PPA must be explicitly bound */
.\"#define CD_STYLE_1      CD_STYLE1
.\"#define CD_STYLE_2      CD_STYLE2
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This user originated primitive requests that
the requesting stream be attached to the physical device indicated by the
Physical Point of Attachment (PPA).
.PP
When a Style 2 CDI stream is first opened, it is opened in the
.BR CD_UNATTACHED
state and is not associated with a Physical Point of Appearance (PPA).  The
.B CD_ATTACH_REQ
primitive requests that the provider associated the stream with the specified
PPA and move the stream to the
.B CD_DISABLED
state.
.PP
Style 1 CDI streams open in the
.BR CD_DISABLED
state, and a
.B CD_ATTACH_REQ
primitive issued on a Style 1 stream will fail.
.PP
This primitive is only valid for devices that return
.B CD_STYLE2
in the
.I cd_ppa_style
field in a
.BR CD_INFO_ACK (7).
.SS Addressing
.PP
A Physical Point of Appearance corresponds to the hardware interface
associated with a specific communications device.  A PPA number is associated
with each hardware interface for a specific provider or device.
PPA numbers are are a
.BR cd_ulong ,
but which PPA number corresponds to which Physical Point of Appearance is a
provider-specific configuration matter.
Specific providers should document the mapping of PPA numbers to actual
Physical Points of Appearance as part of the provider-specific documentation.
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I cd_primitive
Specifies the primitives type.
.TP
.I cd_ppa
Specifies the Physical Point of Attachment (PPA).  The format of this field is
provider- and device-specific.
.SS State
This primitive is only valid in state
.BR CD_UNATTACHED .
The new state is
.BR CD_DISABLED .
.SH RESPONSE
This primitive requires the provider to return an acknowledgment indicating
the success or failure of the
.BR CD_ATTACH_REQ .
.PP
.B "Successful:"
When successful, the provider responds with a
.BR CD_OK_ACK (7)
primitive acknowledging successful processing of the
.BR CD_ATTACH_REQ .
The new state is
.BR CD_DISABLED .
.PP
.B "Unsuccessful (non-fatal errors):"
When unsuccessful, the provider responds with a
.BR CD_ERROR_ACK (7)
indicating the non-fatal error.
The state is unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.B "Non-Fatal Errors:"
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADADDRESS ]
.\"Address was invalid.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADADDRTYPE ]
.\"Invalid address type.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDIAL ]
.\"Dial information was invalid.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDIALTYPE ]
.\"Invalid dial information type.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADDISPOSAL ]
.\"Invalid disposal parameter.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_BADFRAME ]
.\"Defective SDU received.
.TP
.RB [ CD_BADPPA ]
Invalid PPA identifier.
.TP
.RB [ CD_BADPRIM ]
Unrecognized primitive.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_DISC ]
.\"Disconnected.
.TP
.RB [ CD_EVENT ]
Protocol-specific event occurred.
.TP
.RB [ CD_FATALERR ]
Device has become unusable.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_INITFAILED ]
.\"Line initialization failed.
.TP
.RB [ CD_NOTSUPP ]
Primitive not supported by this device.
.TP
.RB [ CD_OUTSTATE ]
Primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CD_PROTOSHORT ]
M_PROTO block too short.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_READTIMEOUT ]
.\"Read request timed out before data arrived.
.TP
.RB [ CD_SYSERR ]
UNIX system error.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ CD_WRITEFAIL ]
.\"Unitdata request failed.
.SH FILES
<sys/cdi.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CD_DETACH_REQ (7),
.BR CD_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR CD_INFO_ACK (7),
.BR CD_OK_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Communications Device Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to CDI with Gcom extensions.
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
