'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: CD_UNITDATA_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/04/07 09:33:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/07 09:33:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CD_UNITDATA_IND 7 "$Date: 2004/04/07 09:33:28 $" "$Name:  $" "Communications Device Interface (CDI)"
.SH NAME
.B CD_UNITDATA_IND
\- data receive indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
This primitive consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks.
The
.B M_PROTO
message block is optional.
The
.B M_PROTO
message block is structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
.\"/*
.\" * CD_UNITDATA_IND, optional M_PROTO type, with M_DATA block(s)
.\" */
typedef struct {
    cd_ulong cd_primitive;
    cd_ulong cd_state;
    cd_ulong cd_src_addr_length;
    cd_ulong cd_src_addr_offset;
    cd_ushort cd_addr_type;
    cd_ushort cd_priority;
    cd_ulong cd_dest_addr_length;
    cd_ulong cd_dest_addr_offset;
} cd_unitdata_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This provider originated primitives indicates that data has arrived for the
specified source and destination addresses with the specified priority.
.PP
The
.B M_PROTO
message block is only necessary when the parameters included in the primitive
are not implied by the communications device.
.SS Parameters
This primitive contains the following parameters:
.TP
.I cd_primitive
Indicates the primitives type.
.TP
.I cd_state
Indicates the state of the CD provider following the indication primitive.
.I cd_state
can be one fo the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B CD_UNATTACHED
No PPA attached.
.TP
.B CD_UNUSABLE
PPA cannot be used.
.TP
.B CD_DISABLED
PPA attached.
.TP
.B CD_ENABLE_PENDING
Waiting ack of enable req.
.TP
.B CD_ENABLED
Awaiting use.
.TP
.B CD_READ_ACTIVE
Input section enabled; disabled after data arrives.
.TP
.B CD_INPUT_ALLOWED
Input section permanently enabled.
.TP
.B CD_DISABLE_PENDING
Waiting ack of disable req.
.TP
.B CD_OUTPUT_ACTIVE
Output section active only.
.TP
.B CD_XRAY
Xray-ing another ppa.
.RE
.TP
.I cd_src_addr_length
Indicates the length of the source address associated with the recieved data.
When sending endpoint uses the CDI, this address is the same as the
.I cd_dest_addr_lenght
of the corresponding
.BR CD_UNITDATA_REQ (7)
primitive.
When no source address is provided, or the source address is implicit to the
data, this field is coded zero (0).
.TP
.I cd_src_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the source address from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.  When
.I cd_src_addr_length
is zero (0), this field is also zero (0).
.TP
.I cd_addr_type
.RS
.TP
.B CD_SPECIFIC
Indicates that an address is contained in the primitive.  When
.I cd_addr_type
is set to
.BR CD_SPECIFIC ,
a destination address is indicated in the
.I cd_dest_addr_length
and
.I cd_dest_addr_offset
fields.
.TP
.B CD_BROADCAST
Indicates that the data was sent to the implicit broadcast address and no
specific address follows.  When
.I cd_addr_type
is set to
.BR CD_BROADCAST ,
the fields
.I cd_dest_addr_length
and
.I cd_dest_addr_offset
are coded zero (0) and should be ignored by the CD user.
.TP
.B CD_IMPLICIT
Indicates that an implicit address was used, or that the address is
embedded in the data.  When
.I cd_addr_type
is set to
.BR CD_IMPLICIT ,
the fields
.I cd_dest_addr_length
and
.I cd_dest_addr_offset
are coded zero (0) and should be ignored by the CD user.
.RE
.TP
.I cd_priority
Indicates the priority of the received data.  The priority is provider- and
device-specific.
.TP
.I cd_dest_addr_length
Indicates the length of the destination addres.  When this field is coded zero
(0), it indicates that no destination address is included in the message.
.TP
.I cd_dest_addr_offset
Indicates the offset of the destination address from the start of the
.B M_PROTO
message block.  When
.I cd_dest_addr_length
is zero (0), this field is also coded zero (0) and should be ignored by the CD
user.
.SS State
This primitive is valid in any state where the device is allowed to received
ata (i.e.
.BR CD_READ_ACTIVE ,
and
.BR CD_INPUT_ALLOWED ).
The state remains unchanged.
.SH FILES
<sys/cdi.h>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CD_ALLOW_INPUT_REQ (7),
.BR CD_HALT_INPUT_REQ (7),
.BR CD_UNITDATA_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Communications Device Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to CDI with Gcom extensions.
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
