'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_DATA_ACK_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/04/05 23:29:02 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/05 23:29:02 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_DATA_ACK_IND 7 "$Date: 2004/04/05 23:29:02 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux STREAMS"
.SH NAME
.B DL_DATA_ACK_IND (dl_data_ack_ind_t)
\- conveys one DLSDU from the DLS Provider to the DLS User.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_DATA_ACK_IND
conveys one DLSDU from the DLS Provider to the DLS User.
This primitive indicates the arrival of a non-null, non-duplicate DLSDU
from a peer Data Link User entity.
.SH SYNOPSIS
Consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block containing the structure shown
below, followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
blocks containing one or more bytes of data.  The amount of user data that may
be transferred in a single DLSDU is limited.  This limit is conveyed by the
parameter
.I dl_max_sdu
in the
.BR DL_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_dest_addr_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_dest_addr_offset;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_src_addr_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_src_addr_offset;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_priority;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_service_class;
} dl_data_ack_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_DATA_ACK_IND .
.TP
.I dl_dest_addr_length
conveys the length of the DLSAP address of the destination DLS User.  If the
destination user is implemented using DLPI, this address is the full DLSAP
.TP
.I dl_dest_addr_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block where the destination DLSAP address begins.
.TP
.I dl_src_addr_length
conveys the length of the DLSAP address of the source DLS User.
.TP
.I dl_src_addr_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block where the source DLSAP address begins.  address returned on the
.BR DL_BIND_ACK (7).
.TP
.I dl_priority
priority provided for the data unit transmission.
.TP
.I dl_service_class
specifies whether or not an acknowledge capability in the medium access
control sublayer is to be used for the data unit transmission.
.RS
.TP
.B DL_RQST_RSP
use acknowledgement service in the medium access control sublayer.
.TP
.B DL_RQST_NORSP
no acknowledgement service to be used in the medium access control sublayer.
.RE
.SH STATE
This message is valid in state
.BR DL_IDLE .
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is unchanged.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
