'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_ERROR_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/04/05 23:29:02 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/05 23:29:02 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_ERROR_ACK 7 "$Date: 2004/04/05 23:29:02 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux STREAMS"
.SH NAME
.B DL_ERROR_ACK (dl_error_ack_t)
\- informs the DLS user that a previously issued request or response
was invalid.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DL_ERROR_ACK
informs the DLS user that a previously issued request or response was invalid.
It conveys the identity of the primitive in error, a DLPI error code, and if
appropriate, a Linux system error code.  Whenever this primitive is generated,
it indicates that the DLPI state is identical to what it was before the
erroneous request or response.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block, which contains the following structure.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_error_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_errno;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_unix_errno;
} dl_error_ack_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK .
.TP
.I dl_error_prim
identifies the primitive in error.
.TP
.I dl_errno
conveys the DLPI error code associated with the failure.  See the individual
request or response for the error codes that are applicable.  In addition to
those errors:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_BADPRIM
error is returned if an unrecognized primitive is issued by the DLS user.
.TP
.B DL_NOTSUPPORTED
error is returned if an unsupported primitive is issued by the DLS user.
.RE
.TP
.I dl_unix_errno
conveys the Linux system error code associated with the failure.  This value
should be non-zero only when
.I dl_errno
is set to
.BR DL_SYSERR .
It is used to report Linux system failures that prevent the processing of a
given request or response.
.SH STATE
The message is valid in every state where an acknowledgement or
confirmation of a previous request or response is pending.
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is that from which the acknowledged request or response
was generated.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
