'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_PROMISCON_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/04/05 23:29:02 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/05 23:29:02 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_PROMISCON_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/04/05 23:29:02 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux STREAMS"
.SH NAME
.B DL_PROMISCON_REQ (dl_promiscon_req_t)
\- this primitive requests the DLS Provider to enable promiscuous mode on
a per Stream basis, either at the physical level or at the SAP level.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive requests the DLS Provider to enable promiscuous mode on a
per Stream basis, either at the physical level or at the SAP level.
.PP
The DL Provider will route all received messages on the media to the DLS
User until either a
.BR DL_DETACH_REQ (7)
or a
.BR DL_PROMISCOFF_REQ (7)
is received or the
Stream is closed.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block, which contains the following structure.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_level;
} dl_promiscon_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_PROMISCON_REQ .
.TP
.I dl_level
indicates promiscuous mode at the physical or SAP level:
.RS
.TP
.B DL_PROMISC_PHYS
indicates promiscuous mode at the physical level
.TP
.B DL_PROMISC_SAP
indicates promiscuous mode at the SAP level
.TP
.B DL_PROMISC_MULTI
indicates promiscuous mode for all multicast addresses.
.RE
.SH STATE
The message is valid in any state when there is no pending
acknowledgement.
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is unchanged.
.SH RESPONSE
If enabling of promiscuous mode is successful, a
.BR DL_OK_ACK (7)
is returned.  Otherwise, a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B DL_NOTSUPPORTED
Primitive is known but not supported by the DLS Provider
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state
.TP
.B DL_SYSERR
A System error has occurred and the Linux System error is indicated in
the
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7).
.TP
.B DL_UNSUPPORTED
Requested service is not supplied by the provider.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
