'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_REPLY_STATUS_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/04/05 23:29:02 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/05 23:29:02 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_REPLY_STATUS_IND 7 "$Date: 2004/04/05 23:29:02 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux STREAMS"
.SH NAME
.B DL_REPLY_STATUS_IND (dl_reply_status_ind_t)
\- this indication primitive is passed from the DLS Provider to the
DLS User to indicate the success or failure of the previous
associated acknowledged connectionless mode data unit exchange request.
.SH SYNOPSIS
Consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block containing the structure shown below, followed by zero or more
.B M_DATA
blocks.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_correlation;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_status;
} dl_reply_status_ind_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_REPLY_STATUS_IND .
.TP
.I dl_correlation
conveys the unique identifier passed with the
.BR DL_REPLY_REQ (7)
primitive, to allow the DLS User correlate the status to the appropriate
.BR DL_REPLY_REQ (7).
.TP
.I dl_status
Indicates the success or failure of the previous associated acknowledged
connectionless-mode data unit exchange request.
.RS
.TP
.B DL_CMD_OK
command accepted.
.TP
.B DL_CMD_RS
unimplemented or inactivated service.
.TP
.B DL_CMD_UE
LLC User Interface error
.TP
.B DL_CMD_PE
protocol error
.TP
.B DL_CMD_IP
permanentimplementation dependent error
.TP
.B DL_CMD_UN
resources temporarily available.
.TP
.B DL_CMD_IT
temporary implementation dependent error.
.TP
.B DL_RSP_OK
response DLSDU present.
.TP
.B DL_RSP_RS
unimplemented or inactivated service.
.TP
.B DL_RSP_NE
response DLSDU never submitted.
.TP
.B DL_RSP_NR
response DLSDU not requested.
.TP
.B DL_RSP_UE
LLC User interface error.
.TP
.B DL_RSP_IP
permanent implementation dependent error.
.TP
.B DL_RSP_UN
resources temporarily unavailable.
.TP
.B DL_RSP_IT
temporary implementation dependent error.
.RE
.SH STATE
This primitive is valid in state
.BR DL_IDLE .
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is unchanged.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
