'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_REPLY_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/04/05 23:29:02 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/05 23:29:02 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_REPLY_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/04/05 23:29:02 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux STREAMS"
.SH NAME
.B DL_REPLY_REQ (dl_reply_req_t)
\- this request primitive is passed to the  DLS  Provider  by  the  DLS  User
to  request that a DLSDU be returned  from  a  peer  DLS  Provider  or that
DLSDUs be exchanged between  stations  using acknowledged connectionless mode
data unit exchange procedures.
.SH SYNOPSIS
Consists  of  one  M_PROTO  message  block containing the structure shown
below, followed by one or more M_DATA blocks with one or more bytes of data.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_correlation;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_dest_addr_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_dest_addr_offset;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_src_addr_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_src_addr_offset;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_priority;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_service_class;
} dl_reply_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys DL_REPLY_REQ
.TP
.I dl_correlation
conveys  a  unique  identifier  which  will  be returned in the
DL_REPLY_STATUS_IND   primitive   to  allow  the  DLS  User  to correlate the
status to the appropriate DL_REPLY_REQ primitive.
.TP
.I dl_dest_addr_length
conveys  the length of the DLSAP address of the destination DLS User.  If  the
destination user is implemented using DLPI, this address is the full DLSAP
address returned on the DL_BIND_ACK.
.TP
.I dl_dest_addr_offset
conveys  the  offset  from the beginning of the M_PROTO message block where
the destination DLSAP address begins.
.TP
.I dl_src_addr_length
conveys the length of the DLSAP address of the source DLS User.
.TP
.I dl_src_addr_offset
conveys  the  offset  from the beginning of the M_PROTO message block where
the source DLSAP address begins.
.TP
.I dl_priority
priority provided for the data unit transmission.
.TP
.I dl_service_class
specifies  whether  or  not  an  acknowledge  capability in the medium  access
control sublayer is to be used for the data unit transmission.
.SH STATE
This primitive is valid in state DL_IDLE.
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is unchanged.
.SH RESPONSE
If  the request is erroneous, message DL_ERROR_ACK is returned, and the
resulting  state  is  unchanged.  If  the  message is valid, a
DL_REPLY_STATUS_IND  is returned.  This will indicate the success or failure of
the previous associated acknowledged connectionless-mode data unit exchange.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B DL_BADADDR
The  destination  DLSAP  address  was in an incorrect format or contained
invalid information.
.TP
.B DL_BADDATA
The  amount  of  data  in  the  current  DLSDU exceeded the DLS provider's
DLSDU limit.
.TP
.B DL_NOTSUPPORTED
Primitive is valid, but not supported.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.B DL_UNSUPPORTED
Requested  service  not  supported  by  Provider  (Request with response at
the Medium Access Control sublayer).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
