'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: DL_UDQOS_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/04/07 09:33:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/07 09:33:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DL_UDQOS_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/04/07 09:33:28 $" "$Name:  $" "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)"
.SH NAME
.B DL_UDQOS_REQ (dl_udqos_req_t)
\- requests the DLS provider to apply the specified quality of service
parameter values to subsequent data unit transmissions.  These new values
will remain in effect until another
.B DL_UDQOS_REQ
is issued.
.SH SYNOPSIS
The message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block containing the structure shown below.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct {
    t_uscalar_t  dl_primitive;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_qos_length;
    t_uscalar_t  dl_qos_offset;
} dl_udqos_req_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dl_primitive
conveys
.BR DL_UDQOS_REQ .
.TP
.I dl_qos_length
conveys the length, in bytes, of the requested quality of service
parameter values.  The values are conveyed in the appropriate structure
defined in
.I \*(lqQOS Data Structures,\*(rq
.BR dlpi (7).
The available range of QOS values that may be selected is specified by the
.I dl_qos_range_length
and
.I dl_qos_range_offset
parameters in the
.BR DL_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive.  For any parameter whose value the DLS user does not wish to select,
the value
.B DL_QOS_DONT_CARE
may be set and the DLS provider will maintain the current value for that
parameter.  See [3]Quality of Data Link Service.  for a full description of the
quality of service parameters.
.TP
.I dl_qos_offset
conveys the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block where the quality of service parameters begin.
.SH STATE
The message is valid in state
.BR DL_IDLE .
.SH "NEW STATE"
The resulting state is
.BR DL_UDQOS_PENDING .
.SH RESPONSE
If the quality of service request is successful,
.BR DL_OK_ACK (7)
is sent to the DLS user and the resulting state is
.BR DL_IDLE .
If the request fails, message
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7(
is returned and the resulting state is unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B DL_BADQOSPARAM
The quality of service parameters contained values outside the range of those
supported by the DLS provider.
.TP
.B DL_BADQOSTYPE
The quality of service structure type was not supported by the DLS provider.
.TP
.B DL_OUTSTATE
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to DLPI Revision 2.
.[
dlpi
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
