'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_ADDR_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/04/05 23:29:02 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/05 23:29:02 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH T_ADDR_ACK 7 "$Date: 2004/04/05 23:29:02 $" "$Name:  $" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_ADDR_ACK
\- Protocol Address Acknowledgement
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s+1\
struct T_addr_ack {
    t_scalar_t   PRIM_type;      /* Always T_ADDR_ACK */
    t_scalar_t   LOCADDR_length;
    t_scalar_t   LOCADDR_offset;
    t_scalar_t   REMADDR_length;
    t_scalar_t   REMADDR_offset;
};
\fR\s-1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the transport user the local and remote protocol
addresses currently associated with the transport endpoint.
.SH PARAMETERS
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
the primitive type.
.TP
.I LOCADDR_length
the length of the local address associated with the transport endpoint.
.TP
.I LOCADDR_offset
the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PCPROTO
message block where the local address begins. 
.TP
.I REMADDR_length
the length of the remote address associated with the transport endpoint.
.TP
.I REMADDR_offset
the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PCPROTO
message block where the remote address begins. 
.PP
The proper alignment of the addresses in the
.B M_PCPROTO
message block is not guaranteed. 
.SH RULES
If the transport endpoint is not bound to a local address, the
LOCADDR_length field is set to 0.
.PP
If the transport endpoint is not associated with a remote address, the
REMADDR_length field is set to 0.
.SH MODES
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_ADDR_REQ (7),
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
