'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_BIND_ACK.7.man,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-28 18:38:33 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 18:38:33 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: T_BIND_ACK.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-04-28 18:38:33  brian
.\" - header updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:44:49  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH T_BIND_ACK 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_BIND_ACK
\- Bind Protocol Address Acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of one
.B M_PCPROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_bind_ack {
    t_scalar_t    PRIM_type;      /* Always T_BIND_ACK */
    t_scalar_t    ADDR_length;
    t_scalar_t    ADDR_offset;
    t_uscalar_t   CONIND_number;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive indicates to the transport user that the specified protocol
address has been bound to the stream, that the specified number of connect
indications are allowed to be queued by the transport provider for the
specified protocol address, and that the stream associated with the
specified protocol address has been activated.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
indicates the primitive type.
.TP
.I ADDR_length
is the length of the protocol address that was bound to the stream.
.TP
.I ADDR_offset
is the offset from the beginning of the
.B M_PCPROTO
block where the protocol
address begins. 
.TP
.I CONIND_number
is the accepted number of connect indications allowed to be outstanding
by the transport provider for the specified protocol address.  Note that
this field does not apply to connectionless transport providers.
.PP
The proper alignment of the address in the
.B M_PCPROTO
message block is not
guaranteed. 
.SH RULES
The following rules apply to the binding of the specified protocol address to
the stream:
.IP \- 3
If the
.I ADDR_length
field in the
.BR T_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive is 0, then the
transport provider is to assign a transport protocol address to the user.
.IP \-
The transport provider is to bind the transport protocol address as
specified in the
.BR T_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP \-
If the transport provider cannot bind the specified address the provider
will return
.BR "" [ TADDRBUSY ].
.PP
The following rules apply to negotiating the
.I CONIND_number
argument:
.IP \- 3
The returned value must be less than or equal to the corresponding requested
number as indicated in the
.BR T_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive. 
.IP \-
If the requested value is greater than zero, the returned value must also
be greater than zero.
.IP \-
Only one stream that is bound to the indicated protocol address may have a
negotiated accepted number of maximum connect requests greater than zero.
.IP \-
If a stream with
.I CONIND_number
greater than zero is used to accept a
connection, the stream will be found busy during the duration of that
connection and no other stream may be bound to that protocol address with a
.I CONIND_number
greater than zero.  This will prevent more than one stream bound
to the identical protocol address from accepting connect indications.
.IP \-
A stream requesting a
.I CONIND_number
of zero should always be valid.  This
indicates to the transport provider that the stream is to be used to request
connections only.
.IP \-
A stream with a negotiated
.I CONIND_number
greater than zero may generate
connect requests or accept connect indications.
.SH ERRORS
If the above rules result in an error condition, then the transport provider
must issue an
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive to the transport user specifying the
error as defined in the description of the
.BR T_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive. 
.SH MODES
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_BIND_REQ (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
