'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_CAPABILITY_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.5 2005/05/14 08:28:26 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/14 08:28:26 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH T_CAPABILITY_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_CAPABILITY_REQ
\- protocol capability acknowledgment
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of an
.B M_PROTO
or
.B M_PCPROTO
message containing a  struct
T_capability_req which contains (at least) the following members:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_capablity_req {
    t_scalar_t    PRIM_type;    /* always T_CAPABILITY_REQ  */
                                /* must be the first field! */
    t_unscalar_t  CAP_bits1;    /* capability bits #1       */
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive notifies the provider that the user requests certain provider
information and capabilities, and that it can make use of various
.B TPI
features
as encoded in the
.I CAP_bits1
field (see below).
.SH PARAMETERS
The fields of this message have the following meanings:
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
This    indicates    the   primitive   type   and   is   always
.BR T_CAPABILITY_REQ (7).
This  field must be strictly the first field to allow
receivers to determine the message type.
.TP
.I CAP_bits1
This  is a 32-bit field with zero or more of the following bits set, all other
bits must be zero:
.RS
.TP
.B TC1_INFO
If  set,  his  bit requests the provider information as if the
.B T_CAPABILITY_REQ
were a
.BR T_INFO_REQ .
.TP
.B TC1_ACCEPTOR_ID
If  set,  this  bit  requests  that the provider supply an acceptor identifier
for use in a
.BR T_CONN_RES .
.TP
.B Extensibility
In  addition the following bit is reserved for future use:
.BR TC1_CAP_BITS2 .
This bit may later be used to enable another 32 capability bits, but must not
currently be set.
.SH RULES
This primitive may be sent at any time.  It can be sent as either an
.B M_PROTO
or
.BR M_PCPROTO ,
and  must  be  responded  to with the same message type as
itself.
.SH MODES
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_CAPABILITY_ACK (7),
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
