'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_CONN_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-28 18:38:33 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 18:38:33 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: T_CONN_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-04-28 18:38:33  brian
.\" - header updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:44:49  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH T_CONN_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_CONN_REQ
\- Connect Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by zero or more
.B M_DATA
blocks if any user data is specified by the transport user.
The format of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_conn_req {
    t_scalar_t   PRIM_type;      /* Always T_CONN_REQ */
    t_scalar_t   DEST_length;
    t_scalar_t   DEST_offset;
    t_scalar_t   OPT_length;
    t_scalar_t   OPT_offset;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive requests that the transport provider connect to the specified
destination.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
.TP
.I DEST_length
is the length of the destination address
.TP
.I DEST_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block) where the
destination address begins. 
.TP
.I OPT_length
is the length of the requested options associated with the primitive.
.TP
.I OPT_offset
is the offset (from the beginning of the
.B M_PROTO
message block) of the
requested options associated with the primitive. 
.PP
The proper alignment of the destination address and options in the
.B M_PROTO
message block is not guaranteed.  The destination address and options in
the
.B M_PROTO
message block are however, aligned the same as they were received
from the transport user. 
.TP 8
.B Note:
The information located by the defined structures may not be in the proper
alignment in the message blocks, so the casting of structure definitions
over these fields may produce incorrect results.  It is advised that the
transport providers supply exact format specifications for the appropriate
information to the transport users.
.SH RULES
This primitive requires the transport provider to generate one of the
following acknowledgments on receipt of the primitive, and the transport user
must wait for the acknowledgment before issuing any other primitives:
.SS Successful
Correct acknowledgment of the primitive is indicated via the
.BR T_OK_ACK (7)
primitive described in reference TPI-SMD.
.SS Non-fatal errors
These errors will be indicated via the
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive described in
reference TPI-SMD.
.SH ERRORS
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ TACCES ]
This indicates that the user did not have proper permissions for the use of
the requested address or options.
.TP
.RB [ TADDRBUSY ]
The transport provider does not support multiple connections to the same
destination address.  This error indicates that a connection already exists
for the requested destination.
.TP
.RB [ TBADADDR ]
This indicates that the protocol address was in an incorrect format or the
address contained invalid information.  It is not intended to indicate
protocol connection errors, such as an unreachable destination.  Those
error types are indicated via the
.BR T_DISCON_IND (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ TBADDATA ]
The amount of user data specified was invalid.
.TP
.RB [ TBADOPT ]
This indicates that the options were in an incorrect format, or they contained
invalid information.
.TP
.RB [ TNOTSUPPORT ]
This primitive is not supported by the transport provider.
.TP
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The primitive would place the transport interface out of state.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error is indicated in
the primitive.
.SH MODES
Only connection-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_CONN_CON (7),
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
