'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_DATA_IND.7.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:09 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:09 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH T_DATA_IND 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_DATA_IND
\- Data Indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by zero or  more
.B M_DATA
message  blocks  where  each
.B M_DATA
message block contains  at  least
one  byte  of  data.  The format of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_data_ind {
    t_scalar_t   PRIM_type;      /* Always T_DATA_IND */
    t_scalar_t   MORE_flag;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This  primitive  indicates  to the transport user that this message contains
a  transport  interface  data unit.  One or more transport interface  data
units  form  a  transport  service data unit.  This primitive  has a mechanism
which indicates the beginning and end of a transport service data unit.
However, not all transport providers support the concept of a transport
service data unit.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
.TP
.I MORE_flag
when  greater  than  zero,  indicates  that the next
.B T_DATA_IND
primitive is
also part of this transport service data unit. 
.SH RULES
If  a
.B TSDU
spans multiple
.B T_DATA_IND
message blocks, then an
.B ETSDU
may  be
placed  in  between two
.B T_DATA_IND
message blocks.  Once an
.B ETSDU
is  started,
then  the
.B ETSDU
must be completed before any
.B T_DATA_IND
message blocks
defining a
.B TSDU
is resumed. 
.SH MODES
Only connection-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport provider.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7),
.\".BR T_DATA_IND (7),
.BR T_EXDATA_REQ (7),
.BR T_EXDATA_IND (7),
.BR T_OPTDATA_REQ (7),
.BR T_OPTDATA_IND (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
