'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_EXDATA_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-28 18:38:33 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 18:38:33 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: T_EXDATA_REQ.7.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-04-28 18:38:33  brian
.\" - header updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:44:49  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH T_EXDATA_REQ 7 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_EXDATA_REQ
\- Expedited Data Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This  message consists of one
.B M_PROTO
message block followed by one or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks containing at least one byte of data.  The format of the
.B M_PROTO
message block is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_exdata_req {
    t_scalar_t   PRIM_type;      /* Always T_EXDATA_REQ */
    t_scalar_t   MORE_flag;
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This  primitive  indicates  to  the  transport  provider  that this message
contains an expedited transport interface data unit.  One or more  expedited
transport  interface  data units form an expedited transport service data
unit.
.PP
Note  that  the  maximum size of a expedited transport service data unit  is
indicated  to  the  transport  user  via  the
.BR T_INFO_ACK (7)
primitive.
.PP
This  primitive  has  a mechanism which indicates the beginning and end  of
an expedited transport service data unit.  However, not all transport
providers  support the concept of an expedited transport service data unit.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
identifies the primitive type.
.TP
.I MORE_flag
when  greater  than  zero  indicates that the next
.B T_EXDATA_REQ
primitive is
also part of this expedited transport service data unit.
.SH RULES
This  primitive  does  not require any acknowledgments, although it may
generate a fatal error.  This is indicated via a
.B M_ERROR
message type  which
results in the failure of all operating system service routines on the stream.
.SH ERRORS
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.BR [EPROTO]
This indicates one of the following unrecoverable protocol conditions:
.RS
.IP - 3
The transport service interface was found to be in an incorrect state.  If the
interface is in the TS_IDLE state when the provider receives the
.B T_EXDATA_REQ
primitive, then the transport provider should just drop the message without
generating a fatal error.
.IP -
The amount of transport user data associated with the primitive defines an
expedited transport service data unit larger than that allowed by the
transport provider.
.SH MODES
Only connection-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_EXDATA_IND (7),
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7),
.BR T_DATA_IND (7),
.BR T_OPTDATA_REQ (7),
.BR T_OPTDATA_IND (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
