'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: T_UNBIND_REQ.7.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/04/05 23:29:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/05 23:29:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strxnet.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH T_UNBIND_REQ 7 "$Date: 2004/04/05 23:29:03 $" "$Name:  $" "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
.SH NAME
.B T_UNBIND_REQ
\- Unbind Protocol Address Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
This message consists of a
.B M_PROTO
message block formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct T_unbind_req {
    t_scalar_t   PRIM_type;      /* Always T_UNBIND_REQ */
};
\fR\s+1
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This primitive requests that the transport provider unbind the protocol
address associated with the stream and deactivate the stream.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 16
.I PRIM_type
indicates the primitive type.
.SH RULES
This primitive requires the transport provider to generate the following
acknowledgments on receipt of the primitive and that the transport user must
wait for the acknowledgment before issuing any other primitives:
.SS Successful
Correct acknowledgment of the primitive is indicated via the
.BR T_OK_ACK (7)
primitive described in reference TPI-SMD. 
.SS Non-fatal errors
These errors will be indicated via the
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive described in reference TPI-SMD.
.SH ERRORS
The allowable errors are as follows:
.TP 16
.RB [ TOUTSTATE ]
The primitive would place the transport interface out of state.
.TP
.RB [ TSYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux System error is indicated in the
primitive.
.SH MODES
Both connection-mode and connectionless-mode.
.SH ORIGINATOR
Transport user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR T_OK_ACK (7),
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR T_BIND_REQ (7),
.BR T_BIND_ACK (7).
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Transport Provider Interface first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
This interface conforms to TPI Version 2, Draft 2.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
advprog
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
