@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo nocin nosi tw=100
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: descrip.texi,v 0.9.2.7 2007/08/14 07:04:57 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/08/14 07:04:57 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} (@file{@value{PACKAGE}}) is an @cite{OpenSS7 Project} implementation of
various Open Systems Interconnect (OSI) International Standards Organization (ISO) networking
components for @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS}.

This release is the first separate release of the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  Some of the
components in this package were formerly present in the @file{strss7} package.  Various networking
drivers are provided as well as CDI, DLPI, NPI, TPI and XTI header files for ISO/OSI operation.  The
package contains the necessary manual pages and other documentation for ISO/OSI components in a
separate autoconf tarball.

The package uses the following standard @cite{Open Systems Interconnect (OSI)} conforming header
files from the @file{strxns} package:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<sys/cdi.h>} @cite{Communications Device Interface}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<sys/dlpi.h>} @cite{Data Link Provider Interface Revision 2.0.0}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<sys/npi.h>} @cite{Network Provider Interface Revision 2.0.0}
@end multitable

The package uses the following standard @cite{Open Systems Interconnect (OSI)} conforming header
files from the @file{strxnet} package:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} @file{<sys/tihdr.h>} @cite{Transport Provider Interface Revision 2.0.0}
@end multitable

The package currently includes the following @dfn{STREAMS} kernel modules and drivers:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .30 .65
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_x223.ko} @tab @file{/dev/cons}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_x233.ko} @tab @file{/dev/clns}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_x224.ko} @tab @file{/dev/tp0} @file{/dev/tp4}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_X234.ko} @tab @file{/dev/clts}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_isot.ko} @tab @file{module} @file{/dev/isot}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_lpp.ko} @tab @file{module} @file{/dev/lpp}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_cmot.ko} @tab @file{module} @file{/dev/cmot}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_itot.ko} @tab @file{module}
@item @tab @minus{} @file{streams_itos.ko} @tab @file{module}
@end multitable

@itemize @bullet
@item
@manref{x223(4)} driver provides @dfn{CONS} and @dfn{CLNS} services in accordance with the
@cite{ISO/OSI Network Protocol X.223};

@item
@manref{x224(4)} driver provides @dfn{OSI Transport Protocol} services in accordance with the
@cite{ISO/OSI Transport Protocol X.224};

@item
@manref{isot(4)} driver and module provides @dfn{ISO Transport over TCP/IP} as specified in
@cite{RFC 1006/STD 35};

@item
@manref{lpp(4)} driver and module provides @dfn{ISO Transport over TCP/IP} as specified in @cite{RFC
1085};

@item
@manref{cmot(4)} driver and modules provides @dfn{ISO Common Management Information Protocol
(CMIP) over TCP/IP} as specified in @cite{RFC 1095};

@item
@manref{itot(4)} module provides @dfn{ISO Transport over TCP} as specified in @cite{RFC 2126}; and,

@item
@manref{itos(4)} module provides @dfn{ISO Transport over SCTP}.
@end itemize

The @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package includes kernel modules, @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS}
drivers, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and development environment for the
development and execution of @cite{X/Open Network Services (ISO)} protocol stack components and
applications for the @cite{SVR 4.2} @dfn{STREAMS} environment.

This distribution is only currently applicable to @cite{Linux} 2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted
at @code{ix86}, @code{x86_64}, @code{ppc} and @code{ppc64} architectures, but should build and
install for other architectures as well.

