@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.5 2006/10/03 13:52:20 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/03 13:52:20 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @*
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::		Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1.rc3::		Release 1 Candidate 3
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1.rc2::		Release 1 Candidate 2
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1rc1::		Release 1 Candidate 1
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

Initial autoconf/RPM packaging of the @command{@value{PACKAGE}} release.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1.rc3
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1.rc3
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1.rc3

Third release candidate.

@itemize
@item
Now builds 32-bit compatibility libraries and tests them against 64-bit kernel modules and drivers.
The @samp{make installcheck} target will now automagically test both 64-bit native and 32-bit
compatibility versions, one after the other, on 64-bit platforms.

@item
Added versioning of all library symbols.

@item
Many documentation updates for all @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7} packages.  Automated
release file generation making for vastly improved and timely text documentation present in the
release directory.

@item
Dropped support for @cite{LiS}.

@item
Updated @command{init} scripts for proper addition and removal of modules.

@item
Start assigning majors at major device number 231 instead of major device number 230.  Assign major
device number 230 explicitly to the clone device.  Package will now support extended ranges of minor
devices on 2.6 kernels under @cite{Linux Fast-STREAMS} only.  @cite{@value{PACKAGE}} now supports
expanded addressable minor device numbers, permitting 2^16 addressable minor devices per major
device number on 2.6 kernels: @cite{LiS} cannot support this change.

@item
Better detection of SUSE distributions, release numbers and SLES distributions: support for
additional @cite{SuSE} distributions on @code{ix86} as well as @code{x86_64}.  Added distribution
support includes @cite{SLES 9}, @cite{SLES 9 SP2}, @cite{SLES 9 SP3}, @cite{SLES 10}, @cite{SuSE
10.1}.

@item
Improved compiler flag generation and optimizations for recent @command{gcc} compilers and some
idiosynchratic behaviour for some distributions (primarily SUSE).

@item
Optimized compilation is now available also for user level programs in addition to kernel programs.
Added new @option{--with-optimize} option to @command{configure} to accomplish this.

@item
Added @command{--disable-devel} @command{configure} option to suppress building and installing
development environment.  This feature is for embedded or pure runtime targets that do not need the
development enivironment (static libraries, manual pages, documentation).

@item
Added @command{send-pr} script for automatic problem report generation.

@item
The package will now build doxygen(1) html documentation with the 'doxy' make target.  See 'make
help' or README-make in the distribution for more information.
@end itemize

This was an internal alpha test release and was not released publicly.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1.rc2
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1.rc2
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1.rc2

Second release candidate.

@itemize
@item
Added @samp{--enable-devel} @command{configure} option for embedded targets.

@item
Added @command{send-pr} script for automatic problem report generation.
@end itemize

This was an internal alpha test release and was not released publicly.

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1rc1
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1rc1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.9.2.1rc1

First release candidate.

@itemize
@item
Initial package skeleton including @cite{Installation and Reference Manual}
and all necessary files and directories.
@end itemize

This was an internal alpha test release and was not released publicly.

