@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: todo.texi,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-29 00:01:58 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 00:01:58 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@subsubheading Current Plan

This package was initially started to provide managment interfaces to platforms using the OpenSS7
protocol stacks (CMIP and CMOT interfaces) using SS7 GDMO and other GDMO.  It was considered pulling
some of the old @file{isode} package into this package to provide some GDMO facilities.

Since then, it was discovered that these ISO protocols are still very important to a number of
industries on Linux and Linux Fast-STREAMS.  These industries are the Aviation and Financial
industries.  Closer to the heard of telecommunications is the applications of aircraft to ground
communications for the Aviation industry.

While the OpenSS7 Project's focus over the Summer of 2007 is going to be soft-switch enabling
protocols, that may change if the Aviation industry steps up to this package with some funding to
complete the work or by contributing changes, improvements or development to this package.
Otherwise, expect this package to receive only maintenance releases over the next 8 months or so.

@subsubheading Things to Do

@itemize @minus
@item
Important drivers and modules for the financial industry (POS, ATM, EFT) in support of POS to data
center communications and data center to branch communications is as follows:

@table @asis
@item X.25
@item @manpage{xot(4)}
@c @item @manpage{isot(4)}
@c @item @manpage{itot(4)}
@end table

@item
Important drivers and modules for the aviation industry (ATN) in support of air-ground ground
stations and Boundary Intermediate System and Intermediate System ground-ground stations are as
follows:

@table @asis
@item ISO 8208 SNDCF
@item ISO 8802 SNDCF
@item Mobile 8208 SNDCF
@item CIDIN SNDCF
@item @manpage{clnp(4)}
With security adaptations for the ATN network.
@item @manpage{esis(4)}
With subset for the ATN network.
@item @manpage{isis(4)}
With subset for the ATN network.
@item @manpage{idrp(4)}
With subset for the ATN network.
@end table

Additional drivers and modules in support of ground-to-ground Intermediate systems and End Systems:

@table @asis
@item @manpage{isot(4)}
RFC 1006, ISO Transport over TCP.
@item @manpage{itot(4)}
RFC 2126, ISO Transport over TCP.
@item @manpage{xot(4)}
RFC 1613, Cisco X.25 over TCP.
@end table

Additional drivers and modules in support of ground end systems:

@table @asis
@item @manpage{tp(4)}
@end table

@item
Testing.  This package is completely untested.

@table @emph
@item *todo*
@end table

@item
Create @manpage{isot(4)}, @manpage{itot(4)}, @manpage{lpp(4)} and
@manpage{cmot(4)} @dfn{STREAMS} modules and drivers.

@table @emph
@item *todo*
@end table

@item
Move already written code from the @file{stacks} or @file{strss7} directories
into the @file{src} directory.

@table @emph
@item *done*
@end table

@item
Create a skeleton directory and manual and place @command{@value{PACKAGE}} as
a subpackage in the @cite{OpenSS7 Master Package}.

@table @emph
@item *done*
You are reading it.
@end table

@end itemize

The purpose of the package was to move @dfn{STREAMS} ISO networking capabilities outside of the
@file{strss7} release package.
The @command{@value{PACKAGE}} package is currently incomplete.
If you are interested in the completion of this add-on package, contact @email{info@@openss7.com}.

