@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: tree.texi,v 0.9.2.3 2007/01/05 06:26:20 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007/01/05 06:26:20 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c $Log: tree.texi,v $
@c Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/01/05 06:26:20  brian
@c - doc updates for release
@c
@c =========================================================================

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} places the following kernel module files in the kernel modules
directory, @file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-}:@footnote{The kernel version
@samp{@value{_kversion}} is just an example.}

@table @file

@item modules.@value{PACKAGE}

@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} installs the following kernel modules in the kernel modules directory,
@file{/@-lib/@-modules/@-@value{_kversion}/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:@footnote{The kernel version
@samp{@value{_kversion}} is just an example.}

@table @file

@item streams_cmot.ko
This kernel module contains the @dfn{STREAMS} @manref{cmot(4)} module.

@item streams_isot.ko
This kernel module contains the @dfn{STREAMS} @manref{isot(4)} module.

@item streams_itot.ko
This kernel module contains the @dfn{STREAMS} @manref{itot(4)} module.

@item streams_lpp.ko
This kernel module contains the @dfn{STREAMS} @manref{lpp(4)} module.

@item streams_tcpns.ko
This kernel module contains the @dfn{STREAMS} @manref{tcpns(4)} module.

@item streams_xot.ko
This kernel module contains the @dfn{STREAMS} @manref{xot(4)} module.

@item streams_clns.ko
This kernel module contains the @dfn{STREAMS} @manref{clns(4)} driver.

@item streams_x25-lapb.ko
This kernel module contains the @dfn{STREAMS} @manref{lapb(4)} driver.

@item streams_x25-plp.ko
This kernel module contains the @dfn{STREAMS} @manref{plp(4)} driver.

@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} installs the following header files in the system include directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-include/@-@value{PACKAGE}/@-}:

@table @header

@item xti.h

@item xti_osi.h
@itemx sys/xti_osi.h

@item xti_mosi.h
@itemx sys/xti_mosi.h

@item sys/@value{PACKAGE}/config.h

@item sys/@value{PACKAGE}/version.h
This file contains kernel and system tailoring information for the @samp{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
kernel modules.

@item @value{_kversion}/i686/sys/@value{PACKAGE}/modversions.h
This file contains module and symbol version information for the @samp{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} kernel
modules.  This file is only applicable to @cite{Linux} kernels in the 2.4 series.
@footnote{The kernel version @value{_kversion} is just for example.}

@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} installs the following configuration files in the system configuration
directory, @file{/@-etc/@-}:

@table @file

@item @value{PACKAGE}.conf
This file provided configuration information for any system controls affected by the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.

@item sysconfig/@-@value{PACKAGE}
THis file provides system configuration information used by init scripts for the
@samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.  Some options of init script execution can be controlled by
this file.

@item rc.d/@-init.d/@-@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides the System V init script for the @samp{@value{PACKAGE_NAME}} package.
@footnote{This file is really only applicable to RedHat-style init scripts.  An equivalent file,
@file{@value{PACKAGE}.sh} is provided for Debian-style init scripts.}

@item modutils/@-@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides module definitions and demand loading aliases for the @file{@value{PACKAGE}}
package.  This file is really only applicable to older 2.4 kernels.

@item netconfig.d/@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides the @manpage{netconfig(5)} definitions for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
drivers.
@manpage{netconfig(5)} definitions are used the the @file{strnsl} package and the @file{libxnsl}
library.

@item sock2path.d/@value{PACKAGE}
This file provides the @manpage{sock2path(5)} definitions for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}}
drivers.
@manpage{sock2path(5)} definitions are used the the @file{strsock} package and the @file{libsocket}
library.

@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} installs the following utility programs in the system binary directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-sbin/@-}:

@table @file

@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod
This utility can be used by init scripts or administrative users to create or remove device nodes in
the @file{/dev} directory for @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers.

@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} places the following test programs in the system libexec directory
@file{/@-usr/@-lib@-exec/@-}:

@table @file

@item testsuite
@itemx atlocal
The @command{testsuite} stand-alone shell script invokes test cases in the test programs above as
compiled into a comprehensive regression, troubleshooting and validation test suite for the
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} drivers.  The @file{atlocal} file provides localized definitions used
by the @command{testsuite} program.
For more information on test suites, @xref{Test Suites}, and, in particular, @xref{Running Test
Suites}.

@item send-pr
@itemx send-pr.config
The @command{send-pr} stand-alone shell script can be used for the automatic generate of problem
reports for the @cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package.  The @file{send-pr.config} file provides
localized definitions used by the @command{send-pr} program.
For more information on problem reports, @xref{Problem Reports}, and, in particular, @xref{Stand
Alone Problem Reports}.

@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} places the following info files in the system info directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-info/@-}:

@table @file

@item @value{PACKAGE}.info
@itemx @value{PACKAGE}.info-1
@itemx @value{PACKAGE}.info-2
These files contains this manual in @dfn{GNU info} format.

@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} places the following manpage macro and reference database files in the
system man directory, @file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-}:

@table @file

@item @value{PACKAGE}.macros
This file contains manual page macro definitions included by the manual pages included in the
package.

@item @value{PACKAGE}.refs
This file contains a reference database referenced by the manual pages included in the package.

@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} places the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man3/@-}:

@table @file


@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} places the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man4/@-}:

@table @file

@item clns.4
@item cmot.4
@item iso-ip.4
@item isos.4
@item isot.4
@item iso-lan.4
@item iso-udp.4
@item itos.4
@item itot.4
@item lapb.4
@item lpp.4
@item ns-tcp.4
@item plp.4
@item tcpns.4
@item tp0.4
@item tp1.4
@item tp2.4
@item tp3.4
@item tp4.4
@item tp.4
@item x25-lapb.4
@item x25-plp.4
@item x25_lapb.4
@item x25_plp.4
@item xol.4
@item xot.4

@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} places the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man5/@-}:

@table @file

@item @value{PACKAGE}.5

@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} places the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man7/@-}:

@table @file

@item npi_osi.7

@end table

@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} places the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man8/@-}:

@table @file

@item @value{PACKAGE}_mknod.8.gz
Documentation for the @manpage{@value{PACKAGE}_mknod(8)} utility program.

@end table

@ignore
@cite{@value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} places the following manual pages in the system man directory,
@file{/@-usr/@-share/@-man/@-man9/@-}:

@table @file


@end table

@end ignore
@ignore
/usr
/usr/include
/usr/include/striso
/usr/include/striso/sys
/usr/include/striso/sys/striso
/usr/include/striso/sys/striso/config.h
/usr/include/striso/sys/striso/version.h
/usr/include/striso/sys/xti_osi.h
/usr/include/striso/sys/xti_mosi.h
/usr/include/striso/xti.h
/usr/include/striso/xti_osi.h
/usr/include/striso/xti_mosi.h
/usr/libexec
/usr/libexec/striso
/usr/libexec/striso/send-pr
/usr/libexec/striso/send-pr.config
/usr/libexec/striso/testsuite
/usr/libexec/striso/atlocal
/usr/lib
/usr/sbin
/usr/sbin/striso_mknod
/usr/share
/usr/share/man
/usr/share/man/striso.macros
/usr/share/man/striso.refs
/usr/share/man/man4
/usr/share/man/man4/clns.4
/usr/share/man/man4/cmot.4
/usr/share/man/man4/iso-ip.4
/usr/share/man/man4/isos.4
/usr/share/man/man4/isot.4
/usr/share/man/man4/iso-lan.4
/usr/share/man/man4/iso-udp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/itos.4
/usr/share/man/man4/itot.4
/usr/share/man/man4/lapb.4
/usr/share/man/man4/lpp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/ns-tcp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/plp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tcpns.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tp0.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tp1.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tp2.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tp3.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tp4.4
/usr/share/man/man4/tp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/x25-lapb.4
/usr/share/man/man4/x25-plp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/x25_lapb.4
/usr/share/man/man4/x25_plp.4
/usr/share/man/man4/xol.4
/usr/share/man/man4/xot.4
/usr/share/man/man5
/usr/share/man/man5/striso.5
/usr/share/man/man7
/usr/share/man/man7/npi_osi.7
/usr/share/man/man8
/usr/share/man/man8/striso_mknod.8
/usr/share/info
/usr/share/info/striso.info
/usr/share/info/striso.info-1
/usr/share/info/striso.info-2
/etc
/etc/striso.conf
/etc/default
/etc/default/striso
/etc/init.d
/etc/init.d/striso.sh
/etc/modutils
/etc/netconfig.d
/etc/netconfig.d/striso
/etc/sock2path.d
/etc/sock2path.d/striso
/lib
/lib/modules
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/striso
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/striso/streams_cmot.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/striso/streams_isot.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/striso/streams_itot.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/striso/streams_lpp.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/striso/streams_tcpns.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/striso/streams_xot.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/striso/streams_clns.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/striso/streams_x25-lapb.ko
/lib/modules/2.6.15-27-server/striso/streams_x25-plp.ko
@end ignore
