'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: INET.4.man,v 0.9.2.7 2006/10/10 10:42:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/10 10:42:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: INET.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/10/10 10:42:53  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/05/24 10:50:37  brian
.\" - optimizations
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:44:26  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strinet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strinet.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH INET 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B INET
\- OpenSS7 INET Devices
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int " inet_stream " = open(" inet_device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.PP
The
.B INET
related collection of drivers and modules provide INET capabilities in a
number of related forms, including TCP, UDP and IP variants.
.\"
.SS "Drivers"
.PP
.B INET
provides the following
.I STREAMS
pseudo-device drivers:
.\".TP
.\".BR socksys (4)
.\".TP
.\".BR sscop (4)
.TP
.BR sctp (4)
is a STREAMS SCTP driver providing a TPI
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
interface that uses the XOS (XTI over Sockets) approach.
This device is only provided if the system is equipped with the OpenSS7
Linux Native Sockets version of SCTP.  The OpenSS7 STREAMS SCTP is a direct
STREAMS implementation that is available in the
.B strsctp
package.
.TP
.BR tcp (4)
is a STREAMS TCP driver providing a TPI
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
interface that uses the XOS (XTI over Sockets) approach.
.TP
.BR udp (4)
is a STREAMS UDP driver providing a TPI
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
interface that uses the XOS (XTI over Sockets) approach.
.TP
.BR rawip (4)
is a STREAMS RAWIP driver providing a TPI
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
interface that uses the XOS (XTI over Sockets) approach.
.TP
.BR ticlts (4)
is a STREAMS connectionless-mode UNIX domain driver providing a TPI
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
interface that uses the XOS (XTI over Sockets) approach.
.TP
.BR ticots (4)
is a STREAMS connection-oriented UNIX domain driver providing a TPI
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
interface that uses the XOS (XTI over Sockets) approach.
.TP
.BR ticots_ord (4)
is a STREAMS connection-oriented orderly release UNIX domain driver providing a TPI
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
interface that uses the XOS (XTI over Sockets) approach.
.\".TP
.\".BR udp2 (4)
.\"is a STREAMS UDP driver providing a TPI
.\".[
.\"TPI Revision 2.0.0
.\".]
.\"interface that is directly implemented in STREAMS.
.\".TP
.\".BR rawip2 (4)
.\"is a STREAMS RAWIP driver providing a TPI
.\".[
.\"TPI Revision 2.0.0
.\".]
.\"interface that is directly implemented in STREAMS.
.\".TP
.\".BR tcp2 (4)
.\"is a STREAMS TCP driver providing a TPI
.\".[
.\"TPI Revision 2.0.0
.\".]
.\"interface that is directly implemented in STREAMS.
.\"(Right...  This driver is incomplete.)
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.\".TP
.\".B /dev/socksys
.\".TP
.\".B /dev/sscop
.TP
.B /dev/tcp
The Transmission Control Protocol device,
.BR tcp (4).
.TP
.B /dev/udp
The User Datagram Protocol device,
.BR udp (4).
.TP
.B /dev/rawip
The Raw Internet Protocol device,
.BR rawip (4).
.TP
.B /dev/sctp
The Stream Control Transmission Protocol device,
.BR sctp (4).
.\".TP
.\".B /dev/tcp2
.\".TP
.\".B /dev/udp2
.\".TP
.\".B /dev/rawip2
.PD
.PP
Additional devices that are provided are symbolic links to one of the
foregoing devices.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sctp (4),
.BR tcp (4),
.BR udp (4),
.BR rawip (4),
.BR ticlts (4),
.BR ticots (4),
.BR ticots_ord (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Most of the devices and modules listed here did not appear until
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
