'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: udp.4.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:44:26 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:26 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: udp.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:44:26  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strinet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strinet.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH UDP 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B udp, udp2
\- User Datagram Protocol Stream
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netinet/udp.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/tpi_udp.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/xti_udp.h>
.HP
.BI "int " udp_stream " = open(" udp_device ", " flags );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int " udp_xtistr " = t_open(" udp_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " udp_socket " = socket(" \fRPF_INET\fI ", " \fRSOCK_DGRAM\fI ", " \fRIPPROTO_UDP\fI );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B UDP
is an implementation of the User Datagram Protocol
.RB ( UDP )
defined in RFC 768.
.[
RFC 768
.]
It implements a connectionless, unreliable datagram packet service.  Packets
may be reordered or duplicated before they arrive.
.B UDP
generates and checks checksums to catch transmission errors.
.PP
.B UDP
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
pseudo-device driver using the
.BR INET (4)
.B @PACKAGE@
package for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS\c
.
.[
LfS
.]
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package translates Linux native
.BR udp (7)
sockets into TPI
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
transport provider Streams suitable for use with XTI,
.[
XTI
.]
.[
XNS
.]
(see
.BR xti (3)).
.PP
.B UDP2
(the second generation UDP driver) differs from
.B UDP
largely in internal implementation.
.B UDP2
accesses the IP layer of
.B Linux
directly, rather than opening a socket internal to the kernel.
.PP
.B UDP
provides one connectionless TPI Stream type.  To select the Stream,
.I udp_device
can be one of the following:
.TP
.IR /dev/udp ", " /dev/inet/udp ", " /dev/streams/inet/udp .
This device provides the
.B UDP
protocol services using the T-primitives of the Transport Provider Interface,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
used for User Datagram Protocol, as described in
.BR tpi_udp (7).
The
.BR tpi (7)
interface provided on a Stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR xnet (3)
or
.BR xti (3)
library and provides
.B UDP
interface using XTI
.[
XTI
.]
.[
XNS
.]
as described in
.BR xti_udp (3).
.PP
.B UDP2
provides one connectionless or pseudo-connection-oriented TPI Stream type.  To
select the Stream,
.I udp_device
can be one of the following:
.TP
.IR /dev/udp2 ", " /dev/streams/udp .
The same as above, but accesses the second generation
.B UDP2
driver instead of the
.B UDP
driver.
.PP
.B UDP
provides one socket type for use by the
.BR sockets (3)
library
.BR socket (7)
calls.
.B UDP
provides sockets in the protocol families
.BR PF_INET " and " PF_INET6
using the protocol number
.BR IPPROTO_UDP .
The
.I socket_type
can be one of the following:
.TP
.B SOCK_DGRAM
A standard
.I SOCK_DGRAM
socket that preserves message boundaries, does not Nagle, and provides only
unordered and unreliable delivery in a connectionless association.  This
socket uses the underlying Linux socket implementation,
.BR udp (7),
directly.  See
.BR udp (7)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The following entries in
.B /etc/protosw
provides the information for
.BR socksys (4)
to use the devices:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lllllll.
PF_INET:SOCK_DGRAM:IPPROTO_UDP:/dev/udp:tpi:clts
PF_INET6:SOCK_DGRAM:IPPROTO_UDP:/dev/udp:tpi:clts
.TE
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR socksys "(4) and " protosw (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.BR streamio (7)
.I I_STR
system calls on the
.IR udp_stream ", " udp_xtistr " or " udp_socket .
These management controls are described in
.BR timod "(4), " sockmod "(4) and " socksys (4).
See also
.BR udp (7)
for sockets.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B UDP
has several implementations.  This manpage is for the
.BR INET (4)
implementation that provides
.BR tpi (7)
access to the Linux NET4 version of
.BR UDP .
For more information on the Linux NET4 version, see
.BR udp (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
There are now two
.I STREAMS
implementations for
.BR udp :
.B UDP
and
.BR UDP2 .
These implementations differ as follows:
.TP
.B UDP
This implementation is part of the
.B streams-inet
driver in the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package.
The
.B streams-inet
driver implements
.I udp
by opening a
.B Linux
.I udp
socket internal to kernel and providing a TPI
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
interface to that socket.  This approach has been termed
.B xtios
(XTI over Sockets).
The approach is rather inefficient in that two layers of interface code are
executed.  Also, sockets does not have the same capabilities that
.I STREAMS
does in many regards, particularly internal to the kernel.  The approach is
not only inefficient, but is less usable by other
.I STREAMS
modules and multiplexing drivers.
.TP
.B UDP2
This implementation if part of the
.B streams-udp
driver in the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package.  This implementation uses the direct approach of hooking into the
.B Linux
kernel at the
.BR ip (7)
level, using direct function calls, and does not open a socket.  This approach
is more efficient in that only
.I STREAMS
interface code is invoked in the data path.
.PP
The
.B UDP
implementation is the traditional one for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package.
.B UDP2
was an afterthought.
One of the reasons for implementing a separate
.B UDP2
driver was to be able to do performance comparisons between the two
approaches.  Also, using the
.B UDP2
driver, it is possible to make fair performance (throughput, latency, CPU
occupancy) comparisons between the NET4 Linux sockets implementation of
.I udp
and the
.I STREAMS
implementation.
It was intended that the
.BR netperf (1)
package be used to provide performance histogram comparisons between the two
implementations.
.PP
It may seem like a lot of trouble to go to, however, lkml (Linux Kernel
Mailing List) has made some very strong (and unsupported in the author's
opinion) statements regarding the performance of
.I STREAMS
and that of sockets for Internet protocols.  Performance tests of this nature
could dis-spell those rumours.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.PP
.BR <sys/socket.h> ,
.BR <netinet/udp.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_udp.h> ,
.BR <sys/xti.h> ,
.BR <sys/xti_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/xti_udp.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.PP
.IR /dev/udp ,
.IR /dev/inet/udp ,
.IR /dev/streams/inet/udp ,
.IR /dev/udp2 ,
.IR /dev/streams/udp .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.PP
.BR INET (4),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR ip (7),
.BR STREAMS (9),
.BR protosw (5),
.BR socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR sockmod (4),
.BR socksys (4),
.BR STREAMS (4),
.BR udp (7),
.BR udp_ioctl (4),
.BR timod (4),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR tpi_ip (7),
.BR tpi_udp (7),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_ip (3),
.BR xti_udp (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR UDP " and " UDP2
have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of
.B UDP
for
.I STREAMS
is largely compatible with
.IR STREAMS -based
implementations such as Lachman or Mentat TCP/IP stacks and
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.[
soldoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
XNS 5.2.
.[
XNS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B strinet 0.8.2
was released in 2002 and was since part of the Linux STREAMS (LiS)
.[
LiS
.]
package, and is now part of
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
The second generation driver was completed in 2006.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
