'\" tr
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: acb56.4,v 0.9 2004/01/17 07:59:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH ACB56 4 "$Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:22 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 SS7 Devices"
.SH NAME
.B acb56
\- SeaLevel ACB56 Device Driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/lmi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdli.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdti.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int " acb56_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/acb56\fI ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" acb56_stream ", " \fRI_PUSH\fI ", " \fR\*(lqsl\*(rq\fI );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ACB56
is a
Signalling Data Terminal Interface,
.BR sdti (7),
device driver for the SeaLevel Systems, Inc., ACB56 card.
.PP
.B ACB56
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
device driver that provides the
Signalling Data Terminal Interface,
.BR sdti (7).
.PP
.B ACB56
provides the following devices that are directly compatible with the stream
types provided by pushing the
.BR sdt (4)
module:
.TP
.I /dev/acb56
This device provides an
.B SDT
protocol service interface using the SDT-primitives of the Signalling Data
Terminal Interface described in
.BR sdti (7).
This interface is suitable for use with the
.BR sl (4)
module for use with the
.BR mtp (4)
or
.BR m2ua (4)
multiplexors.
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of Local Management Interface IO controls,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
using the
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.I I_STR
command to the
.BR streamio (2)
system call on the
.I acb56_stream
file descriptor.
See
.BR sdt_ioctl (4)
for a complete description of SDT management controls, and
below for a description of SDT management controls particular to the
.B ACB56
driver.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.B ACB56
supports all of the management IO controls described in
.BR sdt_ioctl (4),
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em 4
.B ACB56
does not support the flags,
.IR f ,
field of the
.B sdt_config
structure.  The number of flags between frames is under the control of the SCC
chip on the card.
.IP \(em
.B ACB56
does not support the transmit block size,
.IR b ,
field of the
.B sdt_config
structure.
.IP \(em
.B ACB56
does not support the following fields
of the
.B sdt_config
structure:
.IR t8 ,
.IR Te ,
.IR De " and "
.IR Ue ,
as it does not support high speed links.
.IP \(em
.B ACB56
does not support the protocol options
.BR SS7_POPT_HSL ,
.BR SS7_POPT_XSN  " and "
.BR SS7_POPT_ALL ,
values in the
.I popt
field of the
.B sdt_opt_conf
structure, as it does not support high speed links.
.IP \(em
.B ACB56
does not support the
.IR eim_state ,
.IR Ce ,
.IR su_received " or "
.IR interval_error ,
fields of the
.B sdt_statem
structure, as it does not support high speed links.
.IP \(em
.B ACB56
does not support the
.I carrier_lost
field of the
.B sdt_stats
structure, as it does not support common carrier modes.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR sdti (7),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4)
.BR sdt_ioctl (4),
.BR sl (4).
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sdti.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h> .
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
.PP
This manpage was updated $Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:22 $ for
.BR strss7
release $Name:  $($Revision: 0.9 $).
.PP
The
.B ACB56
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
stack.
.PP
The
.B ACB56
driver first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.7.2 .
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q701
.]
.[
q702
.]
.[
q703
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TA
