'\" tr
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: bicc.4,v 0.9 2004/01/17 07:59:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH BICC 4 "$Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:22 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 SS7 Devices"
.SH NAME
.B bicc
\- Bearer Independent Call Control (BICC) Device Driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/cci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bicci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bicci_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " bicc_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B BICC
is an implementation of Signalling System No. 7
.RB ( SS7 (4))
Bearer Independent Call Control (BICC) defined in ITU-T Recommendation Q.BICC
and ANSI T1.BICC.
.B BICC
provides call control of telephone calls over the ISDN where the bearer
is non-traditional.
.B BICC
can use the services of the Message Transfer Part
.RB "(see " mtp (4))
to transfer packets using, for example, Annex C/T1.BICC.4-2000 operation.
.B BICC
can also use the services of SSCOP or SSCOPMCE
.RB "(see sccop (4))
to transfer packets using, for example, Annex D/T1.BICC.4-2000 operation.
.PP
.B BICC
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR mtp "(4), " m3ua "(4), " tali "(4) or " sscop (4)
streams are linked under the
.B BICC
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (2),
to provide network services to
.BR BICC .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR bicc_ioctl (4)
IO controls.  This function is normally performed by the SS7 configuration
daemon,
.BR ss7confd (8).
See also,
.BR bicc (8).
.PP
.B BICC
provides the following stream types.  To select one of the stream types, the
.I device
argument to the
.BR open (2)
call can be one of the following:
.TP
.I /dev/bicc
This device provides the
.B BICC
protocol services using the CC-primitives of the Call Control Interface (CCI)
described in
.BR cci (7),
as integrated for use with
.B BICC
as described in
.BR cci_bicc (7).
This interface is suitable both for use with other SS7 modules and drivers,
as well as with the
.BR cframe (3)
library using the
.B OpenSwitch
call framework.
.PP
Unlike other SS7 protocol modules and drivers tat the transport level,
.B BICC
does not provide a
.BR sockets (3)
interface.  THis is because the special needs of call control are divorced
from the sockets paradigm.
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of Local Management Interface IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.I I_STR
.BR streamio (2)
system calls on the
.I bicc_stream
file descriptor.  The common Local Management Interface IO commands are
described in
.BR lmi_ioctl (4).
The management structure and constant definitions for
.BR BICC
are described in
.BR bicc_ioctl (4).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR bicc (8),
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR cci (7),
.BR cci_bicc (7),
.BR cframe (3),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
.BR bicc_ioctl (4).
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bicci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bicci_ioctl.h> .
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/bicc .
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B BICC
interface is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
.BR SS7 (4)
stack.  This is Version 2 of the interface.
.PP
CCI interfaces are consistent with CCI Revsion 0.8.2.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q1902
.]
.[
T1.BICC
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.\"
.TA
