'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: bssap_ioctl.4.man,v 0.9.2.7 2006/12/27 16:35:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/12/27 16:35:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: bssap_ioctl.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/12/27 16:35:53  brian
.\" - added slpmod module and fixups for make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:43:02  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH BSSAP-IOCTL 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B bssap_ioctl
\- Base Station System Application Part (BSSAP) \- IO Controls
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/cci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bssapi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bssap_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " bssap_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/bssap\fI ", " flag );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B BSSAP-IOCTL
is a definition of the managed object model for the
.BR bssap (4)
driver using the IO controls defined in
.BR lmi_ioctl (4).
The
.BR bssap (4)
driver is an implementation of the GSM Base Station System (BSS) Application
Part (BSSAP) Layer 3 protocol as defined in ETSI GSM 04.08.
.B BSSAP-IOCTL
provides the definitions of the management objects for the
.BR bssap (4)
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
This manpage defines the
.B BSSAP
managed object-type-specific structures and constants for use
with the IO control interface described in
.BR lmi_ioctl (4).
.SS "Object Classes"
.PP
.TP
.B BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_CC
Call Control User.
.TP
.B BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_CR
Call Reference.
.TP
.B BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_CT
Circuit.
.TP
.B BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_CG
Circuit Group.
.TP
.B BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_SC
Signalling Connection.
.TP
.B BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_DT
DTAP.
.TP
.B BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_MS
Mobile Station.
.TP
.B BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_BSS
Base Station System.
.TP
.B BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_MSC
Mobile Switching Center.
.TP
.B BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_DF
Default object.
.SS BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_CC
.PP
.PP
.B Configuration
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_conf_cc {
} bssap_conf_cc_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
The configuration commands
.BR LMI_ADD ", " LMI_CHA " and " LMI_DEL
do not apply to call control users.  Configuration is read-only and only the
.B LMI_GET
configuration command is used.
.PP
.B Options
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_opt_conf_cc {
} bssap_opt_conf_cc_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B State
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_timers_cc {
} bssap_timers_cc_t;

typedef struct bssap_statem_cc {
} bssap_statem_cc_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Statistics
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_stats_cc {
} bssap_stats_cc_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Events
.PP
.B Controls
.SS BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_CR
.PP
Call Reference.  A call reference is a reference to a call independent of the
GSM-A circuit to which the call corresponds.  This is in support of network
suspend/resume where the call is detached from the circuit and then associated
with a new circuit when it is resumed.  Calls belong to a Mobile Station, a
Base Station System and a Mobile Switching Center.  A call has a list of
circuits that are being used for the call.
.PP
.B Configuration
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_conf_cr {
        ulong ifid;     /* GSM-A interface id */
        ulong ccid;     /* call control identifier */
        ulong cmid;     /* call management identifier */
} bssap_conf_cr_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Options
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_opt_conf_cr {
} bssap_opt_conf_cr_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B State
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_timers_cr {
} bssap_timers_cr_t;

typedef struct bssap_statem_cr {
} bssap_statem_cr_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Statistics
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_stats_cr {
} bssap_stats_cr_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Events
.PP
.B Controls
.SS BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_CT
.PP
.PP
.B Configuration
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_conf_ct {
} bssap_conf_ct_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Options
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_opt_conf_ct {
} bssap_opt_conf_ct_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B State
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_timers_ct {
} bssap_timers_ct_t;

typedef struct bssap_statem_ct {
} bssap_statem_ct_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Statistics
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_stats_ct {
} bssap_stats_ct_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Events
.PP
.B Controls
.SS BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_CG
.PP
.PP
.B Configuration
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_conf_cg {
} bssap_conf_cg_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Options
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_opt_conf_cg {
} bssap_opt_conf_cg_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B State
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_timers_cg {
} bssap_timers_cg_t;

typedef struct bssap_statem_cg {
} bssap_statem_cg_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Statistics
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_stats_cg {
} bssap_stats_cg_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Events
.PP
.B Controls
.SS BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_SC
.PP
.PP
.B Configuration
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_conf_sc {
} bssap_conf_sc_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Options
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_opt_conf_sc {
} bssap_opt_conf_sc_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B State
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_timers_sc {
} bssap_timers_sc_t;

typedef struct bssap_statem_sc {
} bssap_statem_sc_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Statistics
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_stats_sc {
} bssap_stats_sc_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Events
.PP
.B Controls
.SS BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_DT
.PP
.PP
.B Configuration
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_conf_dt {
} bssap_conf_dt_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Options
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_opt_conf_dt {
} bssap_opt_conf_dt_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B State
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_timers_dt {
} bssap_timers_dt_t;

typedef struct bssap_statem_dt {
} bssap_statem_dt_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Statistics
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_stats_dt {
} bssap_stats_dt_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Events
.PP
.B Controls
.SS BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_MS
.PP
.PP
.B Configuration
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_conf_ms {
} bssap_conf_ms_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Options
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_opt_conf_ms {
} bssap_opt_conf_ms_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B State
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_timers_ms {
} bssap_timers_ms_t;

typedef struct bssap_statem_ms {
} bssap_statem_ms_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Statistics
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_stats_ms {
} bssap_stats_ms_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Events
.PP
.B Controls
.SS BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_BSS
.PP
.PP
.B Configuration
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_conf_bss {
} bssap_conf_bss_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Options
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_opt_conf_bss {
} bssap_opt_conf_bss_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B State
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_timers_bss {
} bssap_timers_bss_t;

typedef struct bssap_statem_bss {
} bssap_statem_bss_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Statistics
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_stats_bss {
} bssap_stats_bss_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Events
.PP
.B Controls
.SS BSSAP_OBJ_TYPE_MSC
.PP
.PP
.B Configuration
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_conf_msc {
} bssap_conf_msc_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Options
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_opt_conf_msc {
} bssap_opt_conf_msc_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B State
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_timers_msc {
} bssap_timers_msc_t;

typedef struct bssap_statem_msc {
} bssap_statem_msc_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Statistics
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct bssap_stats_msc {
} bssap_stats_msc_t;
\fR\s+1
.fi
.PP
.B Events
.PP
.B Controls
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B THIS MANPAGE IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND NEEDS TO BE COMPLETED.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B THIS MANPAGE IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND NEEDS TO BE COMPLETED.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bssapi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bssapi_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/bssap .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR bssap (4),
.BR cci (7),
.BR cci_bssap (7),
.BR ss7confd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B BSSAP
IO Controls are specific to the
.I OpenSS7
.BR SS7 (4)
stack.
.BR bssap (4)
is will not appear unitl
.B strss7
release 0.8.4.
CCI interfaces are consistent with CCI Revision 0.8.2.
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
