'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: bua.4.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:57:42 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:42 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH BUA 4 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:42 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 SIGTRAN Devices"
.SH NAME
.B bua
\- SS7 BICC User Adaptation Layer (BUA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/cci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bicci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bicci_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bua_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " bicc_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B BUA
is an implementation of the SS7 BICC User Adaptation Layer (BUA) defined in
.BR draft-bidulock-sigrran-bua-00.txt .
.B BUA
provides a back haul of the services of
.BR bicc (4)
over an IP network using Stream Control Transmission Protocol,
.BR sctp (4),
as defined in
.BR RFC 2960\c
.
.[
RFC 2960
.]
In addition it provide a building block of redundant and distributed SS7
systems.  (See
.IR "\*(lqNOTICES\*(rq" ,
below).
.PP
.B BUA
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver for
.BR LiS (9)\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
.BR bicc (4)
or
.BR sctp (4)
streams are linked under the
.B BUA
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide transport or direct
.B BICC
services to
.BR BUA .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR bua_ioctl (4).
This procedure is normally performed by the SS7 Configuration Daemon,
.BR ss7confd (8).
.PP
.B BUA
provides the following sttream types that are directly compatible with stream
types provided by
.BR bicc (4).
To select one of these stream types,
.I device
can be selected from the following:
.TP
.I /dev/bua
This device provides
.B BICC
protocol service interface using the Call Control Interface (CCI)
.[
cci
.]
described in
.BR cci (7),
as integrated for use with
.BR bicc (4),
as described in
.BR cci_bicc (7).
This interface is suitable both for use with other SS7 modules and drivers, as
well as with the
.BR cframe (3)
library using the
.B OpenSwitch
call framework.
.PP
Unlike other SS7 protocol modules and drivers at the transport level,
.B BUA
does not provide a
.BR sockets (3)
interface.  This is because the special needs of call control are divorced
from the sockets paradigm.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B BUA
can be configured on a system as a drop in transparent replacement for
.BR bicc (4).
IN such a configuration, users opening streams or sockets defined in
.BR bicc (4)
will be opening
.B bua
streams and sockets, but will be unaware of the difference.  In
.BR OpenSS7 ,
.B bua
is used as the primary mechanism of redundancy and distribution are the
.B BICC
level, and, when properly configured
.RB "(see " ss7confd (8)),
.B bua
functions transparently to the BICC-User.
.PP
Also, opening and binding a
.B bua
stream or socket may result in the opening and binding of a
.BR bicc (4)
stream on the local or remote host in direct support of the local BICC-User.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of Local Management Interface IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.I I_STR
.BR streamio (7)
system calls on the
.B bua_stream
file descriptor.  The common Local Management Interface IO commands are
described in
.BR lmi_ioctl (4).
The management structure and constant definitions for
.B BUA
are described in
.BR bua_ioctl (4).
.B BUA
also supports the
.B BICC
IO commands, management structures and contants defined in
.BR bicc_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/lmi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/cci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bicci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bicci_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bua_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR lmi (7),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
.BR bua_ioctl (4),
.BR bicc_ioctl (4),
.BR cci (7),
.BR cci_bicc (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B BUA
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
.BR SIGTRAN (4)
stack.
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
bua
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
