'\" tr
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: bua_ioctl.4,v 0.9 2004/01/17 07:59:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH BUA-IOCTL 4 "$Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:22 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 SIGTRAN Device IO Controls"
.SH NAME
.B bua_ioctl
\- SS7 BICC User Adataptation Layer (BUA) \- IO Controls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bicci_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/ua_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/bua_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "struct strioctl *" arg ;
.HP
.BI "int " bua_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/bua\fI ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" bua_stream ", " \fRI_STR\fI ", " arg );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B BUA-IOCTL
supports IO controls based on the Local Management Interface IO controls,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4).
.B BUA-IOCTL
supports the UA managed object model,
.BR ua_ioctl (4).
.B BUA-IOCTL
supports the BICC IO controls,
.BR bicc_ioctl (4).
.PP
.B BUA-IOCTL
defines the additional structures and constants necessary to use these IO
controls with the
.BR bua (4)
driver.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B THIS MANPAGE IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND NEEDS TO BE COMPLETED.
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/bicci_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/ua_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/bua_ioctl.h> .
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/bua .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
bua
.]
.[
q1902
.]
.[
t1bicc
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TA
