'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: cd_daed.4.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/03/07 00:55:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/03/07 00:55:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: cd_daed.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/03/07 00:55:53  brian
.\" - package passes full documentation check
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CD-DAED 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B cd_daed
\- Delimination Alignment and Error Detection
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/cdi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/cdi_daed.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/daed_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BR "int " ch_stream " = open(" ch_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" ch_device ", " \fRI_PUSH\fI ", " \fR\*(lqcd-daed\*(rq\fI );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B CD-DAED
is an implementation of the Delimination Aligment and Error Detection (DAED) Procedures as specified
in
.B ITU-T Q.703
.[
q703
.]
and
.BR "ANSI T1.111.3" .
.[
t1.111
.]
.B CD-DAED
is intended to be used with the
.BR xxx (4)
multiplexing driver.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B CD-DAED
is implementated as a pushable
.IR STREAMS (4)
module.  The
.B CD-DAED
module can be pushed over a stream conforming to the Channel Interface (CHI) as described in
.BR chi (7).
The
.B CD-DAED
module provides DAED acces to the bit stream from the channel provided by the
.BR chi (7)
Stream below it, by performing HDLC and DAED functions on the raw bit stream.  The upper interface
provided by the
.B CD-DAED
module is the Communications Device Interface (CDI) as described in
.BR cdi (7).
.PP
.B CD-DAED
Streams can be linked under
.BR cd (4)
drivers
.BR xxx (4),
using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide a complete Communications Device that can then be linked under a
.BR dl (4)
driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide data link services to the Layer 3 protocol.  This is normally performed, as required, by
the SS7 Configuration Daemon,
.BR ss7confd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B CD-DAED
has been implemented as a pushable module to ease the development of SS7 Communications Device
and Data Link drivers for various hardware cards.  All that is required is for the card to provide a
Channel Interface (CHI),
.BR chi (7),
and push the
.BR cd-daed
.BR hdlc (4)
and
.BR dl (4)
modules to provide a complete and compliant SS7 Signalling Link.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B CD-DAED
is implemented internally as a soft-HDLC using host-based table lookups.  While this is fairly
efficient, devices that are capable of performing this function in hardware should provide the
Communications Device Interface (CDI),
.BR cdi (7),
directly.
An example of a device that does not include HDLC is the
.BR x400p (4)
driver.  An examle of one that does, is the
.BR acb56 (4)
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B CD-DAED
modules are not normally pushed or accessed directly by user-level programs.
The
.B CD-DAED
module is used directly by some test and monitoring programs.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B CD-DAED
module responsds to Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
IO controls as interpreted for
.B CD-DAED
operations as described in
.BR daed_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cdi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/cdi_daed.h> ,
.BR <ss7/daed_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.RI streams- cd_daed .o
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cdi (7),
.BR dl (4),
.BR daed_ioctl (4),
.BR ss7confd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B CD-DAED
module conforms to the CDI Specifications, Revision 1.0.
.[
cdi
.]
.PP
The
.B CD-DAED
module does not appear until
.B strss7
release 0.8.4.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
