'\" tr
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: gr303ua.4,v 0.9 2004/01/17 07:59:23 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:23 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH GR303UA 4 "$Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:23 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 ISDN Devices"
.SH NAME
.B gr303ua, dl-gr303ua
\- GR-303 User Adaptation Layer (GR303UA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dlpi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dlpi_iua.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/iua_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " gua_stream " = open(" gua_device ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B GR303UA
is an implementation of the
.I Digital Loop Carrier (IDLC)
defined in
.BR GR-303-CORE .
.B GR303UA
provides a backhaul of the services of
.BR gr303 (4)
over an IP network using
Stream Control Transmission Protoocol,
.BR sctp (4),
as defined in
.BR "RFC 2960" .
.PP
.B GR303UA
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR gr303 "(4) or " sctp (4)
streams are linked under the
.B GR303UA
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (2),
to provide transport to remote ASP or SG,
or direct GR303 services to
.BR GR303UA .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR gr303ua_ioctl (4)
IO controls.  This is normally performed by the ISDN Configuration Daemon,
.BR isdnconfd (8).
.PP
.B GR303UA
streams can be linked under a
.BR idlc (4)
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (2),
to provide data link services to the IDLC Layer 3 protocol.  This is normally
performed by the ISDN Configuration Daemon,
.BR isdnconfd (8).
.PP
.B GR303UA
provides the following
.BR gr303 (4)
devices.  The
.I gua_device
argument to the
.BR open (2)
call can be one of the following:
.TP
.I /dev/gr303ua
This device provides the
.BR gr303 (4)
protocol services using the DL-primitives of the
.I Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)
described in
.BR dlpi (7),
with the corrigendum described in
.BR dlpi_gr303ua (7).
Streams that result from opening this device are directly compatible with
.BR gr303 (4)
streams.  This interface is suitable for use with other
.BR ISDN (4)
modules and drivers or directly by user-level programs using the
.BR dlpi (7)
interface.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
Unlike other
.B OpenSS7
protocol modules and drivers providing transport services,
.B GR303UA
does not provide a
.BR sockets (3)
interface.
.PP
When acting as a Signalling Gateway (SG), streams on this device are not
necessarily opened and the SG runs as kernel daemon only.
.PP
.B GR303UA
can be configured on a system as a drop in transparent replacement for
.BR gr303 (4).
In such a configuration, users opening streams as defined in
.BR gr303 (4)
will be opening
.BR gr303ua ()
streams, but will be unaware of the difference.  In
.BR OpenSS7 ,
.BR gr303ua ()
is used as the primary mechanism of redunancy and distribution of the data
link layer, and, when properly configured (see
.BR isdnconfd (8)),
.BR gr303ua ()
functions transparently to the IDLC Layer 3.
.PP
Also, opening and binding a
.BR gr303ua ()
stream may result in the opening and binding of a
.BR gr303 (4)
stream on the local or remote host in direct support of the local IDLC user.
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and the
.I I_STR
command to the
.BR streamio (2)
system calls on the
.I gua_stream
file descriptor.  These management controls are documented in
.BR gr303ua_ioctl (4).
.PP
In addition,
.BR gr303ua ()
supports
.BR dl (4)
IO controls (see
.BR dl_ioctl (4)).
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <sys/dlpi.h> ,
.BR <sys/dlpi_gr303.h> ,
.BR <sys/dlpi_gr303ua.h> ,
.BR <ss7/dl_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/gr303_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/gr303ua_ioctl.h> .
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/dl-gr303ua .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR dl (4),
.BR gr303 (4),
.BR idlc (4),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_gr303 (7),
.BR dlpi_gr303ua (7),
.BR dl_ioctl (4),
.BR gr303_ioctl (4),
.BR gr303ua_ioctl (4).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B GR303UA
driver conforms to the DLPI Specification, Revision 2.0.0.
.PP
The
.B GR303UA
driver will first appear in
.B strss7
release 0.8.4.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
gr303ua00
.]
.[
gr-303-core
.]
.[
dlpi
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TA
