'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ISDN.4.man,v 0.9.2.6 2005/05/13 09:33:08 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/13 09:33:08 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH ISDN 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ISDN
\- OpenSS7 ISDN Devices
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int " isdn_stream " = open(" isdn_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" isdn_stream ", " \fRI_PUSH\fI ", " isdn_module);
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B ISDN
related collection of drivers and modules provide ISDN
.[
q920
.]
.[
q930
.]
capabilities in a number of related forms, including H.323, V5.2, GR-303 and
GSM variants.
.\"
.\"
.SS DRIVERS
.PP
.B ISDN
provides the following
.I STREAMS
pseudo-device drivers:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR isdn (4)
.I Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) Q.931/932 Network Layer
protocol layer
.[
q931
.]
.[
q932
.]
that provides a Call Control Interface,
.BR cci (7),
for ISDN operation,
.BR cci_isdn (7),
and a Local Management Interface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for ISDN management,
.BR isdn_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR capi (4)
.I Common ISDN Application Programming Interface (CAPI)
.[
capi20
.]
protocol layer that provides the Call Control Interace,
.BR cci (7),
for ISDN operation,
.BR cci_isdn (7),
for CAPI devices installed and registered on the local system,
and a Local Management Interface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for CAPI management,
.BR capi_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.\".TP
.\".BR h225 (4)
.\".I ITU-T Recommendation H.225.0
.\"protocol layer tha provides the Call Control Interface,
.\".BR cci (7),
.\"for H225 operation,
.\".BR cci_h225 (7),
.\"and a Local Management Interface,
.\".BR lmi_ioctl (4),
.\"for H.255.0 management,
.\".BR h225_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.\".TP
.\".BR bssap (4)
.\".I Base Station System (BSS) Application Part GSM 04.08
.\"protocol layer that provides the Call Control Interface,
.\".BR cci (7),
.\"for BSSAP operation,
.\".BR cci_bssap (7),
.\"and a Local Management Interface,
.\".BR lmi_ioctl (4),
.\"for BSSAP management,
.\".BR bssap_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR v5 (4)
.I V5.2
protocol layer that provides the Call Control Interface,
.BR cci (7),
for V5.2 operation,
.BR v5_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR gr303 (4)
.I GR-303-CORE
protocol layer that provides the Call Control Interface,
.BR cci (7),
for GR-303-CORE operation,
.BR cci_gr303 (7),
and a Local Management Interface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for GR-303-CORE management,
.BR gr303_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR dl (4)
.I Q.921 (LAPD), Q.922 (LAPF), X.25 (LAPB)
\fR\
.[
q921
.]
.[
q922
.]
.[
x25
.]
Data Link Provider Interface,
.BR dlpi (7),
for LAPD, LAPF and LAPB,
.BR dlpi_lapd (7),
.BR dlpi_lapf (7),
.BR dlpi_lapb (7),
and a Local Management Interface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for DL management,
.BR dl_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SS MODULES
.PP
.B ISDN
provides the following pushable
.I STREAMS
modules:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR hdlc (4)
.I ISO 3309/4335 High-Level Data Link Control (HDLC)
Communications Device Interface,
.BR cdi (7),
module, that can be pushed over a stream that conforms to the Channel
Interface (CHI),
.BR chi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS DEVICES
.PP
.B ISDN
provides the following
.I STREAMS
device drivers:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR x400p (4)
.I T400P-SS7 and E400P-SS7 4-span T1/E1
card driver that provides a Channel Interface,
.BR chi (7),
and Multiplex Interface,
.BR mxi (7).
The
.BR hdlc (4),
module cam be pushed over the
.BR chi (7)
device and linked under the
.BR dl (4)
driver to form a complete ISDN Q.921 data link.  The
.BR mxi (7)
device can be used to switch bearer channels, see
.BR mx (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR x100p (4)
.I T100P-SS7 and E100P-SS7 1-span T1/E1
card driver that provides a Channel Interface,
.BR chi (7),
and Multiplex Interface,
.BR mxi (7).
The
.BR hdlc (4),
module cam be pushed over the
.BR chi (7)
device and linked under the
.BR dl (4)
driver to form a complete ISDN Q.921 data link.  The
.BR mxi (7)
device can be used to switch bearer channels, see
.BR mx (4).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR isdnconfd (8),
.BR SIGTRAN (4),
.BR iua (4),
.BR v5ua (4),
.BR gr303ua (4),
.BR MG (4).
.BR SS7 (4),
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was updated @PACKAGE_DATE@ for
.B @PACKAGE@
release
.BR "@VERSION@" .
.\"
.\"
.PP
Most of the devices and modules listed here do no appear until
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q920
.]
.[
q930
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
