'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: isua.4.man,v 0.9.2.7 2006/04/27 09:34:40 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/27 09:34:40 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: isua.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/27 09:34:40  brian
.\" - updated references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:43:03  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH ISUA 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ISUA
\- SS7 ISUP User Adaptation Layer (ISUA)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/cci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/isupi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/isupi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/isua_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " isua_stream " = open(" device ", " flag );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ISUA
is an implementation of the SS7 ISUP User Adaptation Layer (ISUA) defined in
draft-bidulock-sigtran-isua-01.txt.
.B ISUA
provides a back haul of the serivces of
.BR isup (4)
over an IP network using Stream Control Transmission Protocol,
.BR sctp (4),
as defined in RFC 2960.
.[
rfc2960
.]
In addition it provides a building block of redundant
and distributed SS7 systems.  (See
.IR \*(lqNOTICES\*(rq ,
below.)
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B ISUA
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver for
.BR LiS (9)\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
.BR isup "(4), " bicc "(4) or " sctp (4)
streams are linked under the
.B ISUA
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide transport or direct
.B ISUP
services to
.BR ISUA .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR isua_ioctl (4).
This procedure is normally performed by the SS7 Configuration Daemon,
.BR ss7confd (8).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B ISUA
provides the following stream types that are directly compatible with the
stream types provided by
.BR isup (4).
To select one of these stream types,
.I device
can be selected from the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/isua
This device provides
.B ISUP
protocol service interfce using the Call Control Interface (CCI)
.[
cci
.]
described in
.BR cci (7).
This interface is suitable for use with other SS7 modules and drivers, as well
as with user-level programs such as the
.BR cframe (3)
library using the
.B OpenSwitch
call framework.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Unlike other SS7 protocol modules and drivers providing transport services,
.B ISUA
does not provide a
.BR sockets (3)
interface.  This is because the special needs of call control are divorced
from the sockets paradigm.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B ISUA
can be configured on a system as a drop in transparent replacement for
.BR isup (4).
In such a configuration, users opening streams or sockets as defined in
.BR isup (4)
will be opening
.B isua
streams and sockets, but will be unaware of the difference.  In
.BR OpenSS7 ,
.B isua
is used as the primary mechanism of redundancy and distribution at the
.B ISUP
level, and, when properly configured (see
.BR ss7confd (8)),
.B isua
functions transparently to the ISUP-User.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Also, opening and binding a
.B isua
stream or socket may result in the opening and binding of an
.B isup (4)
stream on the local or remote host in direct support of the local ISUP-User.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
system call on the
.I isua_stream
file descriptor or socket.  These management controls are documented in
.BR isua_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.PP
In addition,
.B isua
supports
.BR isup (4)
IO controls.
See
.BR isup_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/isupi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/isupi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/isua_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_ss7.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_mtp.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_isup.h> ,
.BR <xti.h> ,
.BR <xti_isup.h> ,
.BR <sys/socket.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/isua .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR cci (7),
.BR isupi (7),
.BR isup_tpi (7),
.BR isup_xti (7),
.BR isup_socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR isua_ioctl (4),
.BR isup_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B ISUA
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
stack.
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
isua
.]
.[
q761
.]
.[
q762
.]
.[
q763
.]
.[
q764
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
