'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: isup.4.man,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-29 07:10:18 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:18 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: isup.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-04-29 07:10:18  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:43:03  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH ISUP 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B isup
\- SS7 Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) User Part (ISUP)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/cci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/isupi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/isupi_ioctl.h>
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " isup_stream " = open(" isup_device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ISUP
is an implementation of the Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) Integrated Services
Digital Network (ISDN) User Part (ISUP) defined in ITU-T Recommendation Q.761,
.[
q761
.]
.[
q762
.]
.[
q763
.]
.[
q764
.]
.[
q766
.]
.[
q767
.]
ETSI ISUP Version 4,
.[
isupv4
.]
and ANSI T1.113.
.[
t1.113
.]
.B ISUP
provides call control of telephone calls over the ISDN.
.B ISUP
uses the services of the Message Transfer Part,
.BR mtp (4),
MTP3 User Adaptation Layer,
.BR m3ua (4),
or Tekelec's Transport Adaptation Layer Interface,
.BR tali (4),
to transfer packets.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B ISUP
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR mtp "(4), " m3ua "(4), " tali (4)
or other stream conforming to the Message Transfer Part Interface,
.BR mtpi (3),
are linked under
.B ISUP
using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide Message Transfer Part (MTP) services
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
to
.BR ISUP .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR isup_ioctl (4)
IO controls.
This function is normally performed by the SS7 configuration daemon,
.BR ss7confd (8).
See also,
.BR isup (8).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B ISUP
provides the following stream types.  To select one of the stream type,
the
.I isup_device
argument to the
.BR open (2)
call can be one of the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/isup
This device provides the
.B ISUP
protocol services interface using the
.I CC-primitives
of the Call Control Interface (CCI)
.[
cci
.]
described in
.BR cci (7),
as interpreted for use with
.B ISUP
as described in
.BR cci_isup (7).
This interface is suitable both for use with other SS7 modules and drivers, as
well as with the the
.BR cframe (3)
library using the
.BR OpenSwitch (n)
call framework.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Unlike other SS7 protocol modules and drivers,
.B ISUP
does not provide a
.BR sockets (3)
interface.  This is because the special needs of call control are divorced
from the sockets paradigm.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
system calls on the
.I isup_stream 
file descriptor.
These management controls are documented in
.BR isup_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FEATURES
.PP
The
.B OpenSS7
.B ISUP
implementation has the following features:
.IP \(bu 4
.B ISUP
implements all protocol variants and protocol options in a single state
machine executive and loadable kernel module.  All protocol variants and all
protocol options are simultaneously available to all ISUP users.
.IP \(bu
.B ISUP
is implemented using a call-half call control model.  This means that ISUP is
only in control of one end of a call leg.  Circuit switching, circuit release,
billing, operational measurements, digit translations, trunk group selection,
and other switching functions, such as continuity test tone generation and
detection, are performed by the Call Control User.
.RS 4
.PP
This separation of call control for media control permits
.B ISUP
to be used in soft-switch environments with a decomposed call framework (where
Media Gateway control is separated from call control).
(Because of the power of this approach, only minor modifications were
necessary to cause the ISUP implementation to function as a BICC
implementation.)
.RE
.IP \(bu
.B ISUP
only performs minimal message and parmeter compatibility functions.  Instead,
.B ISUP
passes optional messages and parameters transparently to the Call Control
User.  This empowers the Call Control User to perform message and parameter
compatibility, backwards compatibility, interworking, and other higher level
functions.
.IP \(bu
.B ISUP
performs automatic procedures applicable to the call leg (such as echo control
and call history functions), but does not become involved in end-to-end
procedures (such as Access Transport).  End-to-end procedures are accomplished
by the Call Control User through the transparent passing of optional
parameters.
.IP \(bu
.B ISUP
permits multiple signalling point definitions in multiple signalling newtorks
and can behave in multiple switching roles on a trunk group basis.  This
permits the
.B OpenSS7
call framework,
.BR cframe (3),
to act as a single gateway switch or multiple swiches in multiple networks
simultaneously.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/isup .
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/isupi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/isupi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/cframe_isup.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR OpenSS7 (4),
.BR STREAMS (4),
.BR cci (7),
.BR cci_isup (7),
.BR cframe (3),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR isup (8),
.BR isup_ioctl (4),
.BR isupi (7),
.BR m3ua (4),
.BR mtp (4),
.BR mtpi (3),
.BR open (2),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR tali (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B ISUP
interface is specific to the
.BR OpenSS7 (4)
SS7 stack.  This is Version 2 of the interface.
.PP
CCI interfaces are consistent with CCI Revision 0.8.2.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
