'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: iua.4.man,v 0.9.2.6 2006/04/05 09:43:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: iua.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:43:03  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH IUA 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B iua, dl-iua
\- ISDN Q.921 User Adaptation Layer (IUA)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dlpi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dlpi_iua.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/iua_ioctl.h>
.\"
.\"
.\".HP
.\".BI "int " tpi_stream " = open(" tpi_device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.\".HP
.\".BI "int " lap_stream " = open(" lap_device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " iua_stream " = open(" iua_device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.\".HP
.\".BI "int " muxid " = ioctl(" iua_stream ", " \fRI_LINK\fI ", " tpi_stream );
.\"
.\"
.\".HP
.\".BI "int " muxid " = ioctl(" iua_stream ", " \fRI_LINK\fI ", " lap_stream );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B IUA
is an implementation of the
.I ISDN Q.921 User Adaptation Layer (IUA)
defined in
.BR "RFC 3057" .
.[
rfc3057
.]
.[
rfc3057bis
.]
.B IUA
provides a backhaul of the services of the
.BR lapd (4)
over an IP network using Stream Control Transmission Protocol,
.BR sctp (4),
as defined in
.BR "RFC 2960" .
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B IUA
is implementated as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR lapd (4)
or
.BR sctp (4)
streams are linked under the
.B IUA
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide transport to remote ASP or SG,
or direct LAPD services to
.BR IUA .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR iua_ioctl (4)
IO controls.  This is normally performed by the
ISDN Configuration Daemon,
.BR isdnconfd (8).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B IUA
streams can be linked under an
.BR isdn (4)
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide data link services to the ISDN Layer 3 protoocl.  This is normally
performed by the ISDN Configuration Daemon,
.BR isdnconfd (8).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B IUA
provides the following
.BR lapd (4)
devices.  The
.I iua_device
argument to the
.BR open (2)
call can be one of the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/iua
This device provides the
.BR lapd (4)
protocol service interface using the DL-primitives of the
.I Data Link Provider knterface (DLPI)
described in
.BR dlpi (7),
with the corrigendum described in
.BR dlpi_iua (7).
Streams that result from opening this device are directly compatible with
.BR lapd (4)
streams.
This interface is suitable for use with other SS7 modules and drivers or
directly by user-level programs using the
.BR dlpi (7)
interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Unlike other
.B OpenSS7
protocol modules and drivers providing transport services,
.B IUA
does not provide a
.BR sockets (3)
interface.
.\"
.\"
.PP
When acting as a Signalling Gateway (SG), streams on this device are not
necessarily opened and the SG runs as kernel daemon only.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B IUA
can be configured on a system as a drop in transparent replacement for
.BR lapd (4).
In such a configuration, users opening streams or sockets as defined in
.BR lapd (4)
will be opening
.BR iua ()
streams and sockets, but will be unaware of the difference.  In
.BR OpenSS7 ,
.BR iua ()
is used as the primary mechanism of redundancy and distribution at the data
link layer, and, when properly configurated (see
.BR isdnconfd (8)),
.BR iua ()
functions transparently to the ISDN Layer 3.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Also, opening and binding an
.BR iua ()
stream may result in the opening and binding of a
.BR lapd (4)
stream on the local or remote host in direct support of the local ISDN user.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and the
.I I_STR
command to the
.BR streamio (7)
system call on the
.I iua_stream
file descriptor.  These management controls are documented in
.BR iua_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.PP
In addition,
.B iua
supports
.BR dl (4)
IO controls.  See
.BR dl_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <sys/dlpi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/dl_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/iua_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/iua .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ISDN (4),
.BR isdnconfd (4),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dl_ioctl (4),
.BR iua_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.br
The OpenSS7 Project http://www.openss7.org/
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B IUA
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
stack.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The interface conforms to DLPI Revsion 2.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
rfc3057
.]
.[
rfc3057bis
.]
.[
q920
.]
.[
q921
.]
.[
q921bis
.]
.[
dlpi
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
