'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: m2ua.4.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:57:43 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:43 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH M2UA 4 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:43 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.B M2UA
\- SS7 MTP2 User Adaptation Layer (M2UA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/sli.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sli_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/m2ua_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " m2ua_stream " = open(" \*(lq/dev/m2ua\*(rq ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " m2ua_stream " = open(" \*(lq/dev/m2ua-cdi\*(rq ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " m2ua_stream " = open(" \*(lq/dev/m2ua-dlpi\*(rq ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B M2UA
is an implementation of the SS7 MTP2 User Adaptation Layer (M2UA) defined in
RFC 3331.
.[
RFC 3331
.]
.B M2UA
provides a backhaul of the services of the
.BR sl (4)
over an IP network using Stream Control Transmission Protocol,
.BR sctp (4),
as defined in RFC 2960.
.[
RFC 2960
.]
.PP
.B M2UA
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR sl (4)
or
.BR sctp (4)
streams are linked under the
.B M2UA
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide transport or direct SL services
.[
q703
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
to
.BR M2UA .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR m2ua_ioctl (4).
.PP
.B M2UA
provides the following stream types that are directly compatible with the
stream types provided by
.BR sl (4):
.TP
.I /dev/m2ua
This device provides the
.B SL
protocol service interface using the SL-primitives of the Signalling Link
Interface described in
.BR sli (7).
This interface is suitable for use with other SS7 modules and drivers.
.TP
.I /dev/m2ua-cdi
This device provides the
.B SL
protocol service interface using the CD-primitives of the Communications Data
Interface, described in
.BR cdi (7).
This interface is suitable for use with other modules and drivers expecting a
.BR cdi (7)
interface.
.TP
.I /dev/m2ua-dlpi
This device provides the
.B SL
protocol service interface using the DL-primitives of the Data Link Provider
Interface
.BR dlpi (7).
This interface is suitable for use with other modules and drivers expecting a
.BR dlpi (7)
interface.
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of mangaement IO controls using the
.BR ioctl (2)
system call on the
.BR m2ua_stream .
These management controls are documented in
.BR m2ua_ioctl (4).
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/m2ua ,
.IR /dev/m2ua-cdi ,
.IR /dev/m2ua-dlpi .
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sli.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sli_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/m2ua_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <sys/cdi.h> ,
.BR <sys/cdi_ss7.h> ,
.BR <sys/cdi_sl.h> ,
.BR <sys/dlpi.h> ,
.BR <sys/dlpi_ss7.h> ,
.BR <sys/dlpi_sl.h> .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ss7 (8),
.BR sigtran (8),
.BR sli (7),
.BR sli_cdi (7),
.BR sli_dlpi (7).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B M2UA
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
stack.  This is Version 3 of the interface.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
