'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: m3ua.4.man,v 0.9.2.6 2006/04/05 09:43:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: m3ua.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:43:03  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M3UA 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B M3UA
\- SS7 MTP3 User Adaptation Layer (M3UA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/mtpi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mtpi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/m3ua_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " m3ua_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " m3ua_xtistr " = t_open(" device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " m3ua_socket " = socket(" \fRPF_SS7\fI ", " socket_type ", " \fRSS7PROTO_M3UA\fI );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B M3UA
is an implementation of the SS7 MTP3 User Adaptation Layer (M3UA) defined in
RFC 3332.
.[
RFC 3332
.]
.B M3UA
provides a back haul of the services of the
.BR mtp (4)
over an IP network using Stream Control Transmission Protocol,
.BR sctp (4),
as defined in RFC 2960.
.[
RFC 2960
.]
In additon, it provides a building block for redundant and distributed SS7
systems.  (See
.IR \*(lqNOTICES\*(rq ,
below.)
.PP
.B M3UA
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR mtp "(4) or " sctp (4)
streams are linked under the
.BR M3UA
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLIHK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide transport or direct MTP services
.[
q704
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
to
.BR M3UA .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR m3ua_ioctl (4).
.PP
.B M3UA
provides the following stream types that are directly compatible with the
stream types provided by
.BR mtp (4).
To select one of these stream types,
.I device
can be one of the following:
.TP
.I /dev/m3ua
This device provides the
.B MTP
protocol service interface using the M-primitives of the Message Transfer Part
Interface described in
.BR mtpi (7).
This interface is suitable for use with other SS7 modules and drivers.
.TP
.IR /dev/m3ua-npi-cl ", " /dev/m3ua-npi-co
This devices provides the
.BR MTP
protocol service interface using the N-primitives of the Network Provider
Interface,
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
used for the Message Transfer Part as described in
.BR mtp_npi (7).
The
.BR npi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR sockets (3)
library
.RB socket (3)
call
and provides the
.B MTP
interface using sockets as described in
.BR mtp_socket (7).
.I /dev/m3ua-npi-cl
provides a connectionless
.B N_CLNS
network service provider;
.I /dev/m3ua-npi-co
provides a connection-oriented
.B N_CONS
network service provider.
.TP
.IR /dev/m3ua-tpi-cl ", " /dev/m3ua-tpi-co
This device provides the
.B MTP
protocol service interface using the T-primitives of the
Transport Provider Interface,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
user for the Message Transfer Part as described in
.BR mtp_tpi (7).
The
.BR tpi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR xnet (3)
or
.BR xti (3)
library
.BR t_open (3)
call and provides the
.B MTP
interface using XTI
.[
XTI
.]
.[
XNS
.]
as described in
.BR xti_mtp (3).
.I /dev/m3ua-tpi-cl
provides a connectionless
.B T_CLNS
transport service provider;
.I /dev/m3ua-tpi-co
provides a pseudo-connection-oriented
.B T_CONS
transport service provider.
.PP
.B M3UA
provides two socket types used by the
.BR sockets (3)
library
.BR socket (3)
call.
.B M3UA
provides sockets in the protocol family
.B PF_SS7
using the protocol number
.BR SS7PROTO_M3UA .
The
.I socket_type
argument can be one of the following:
.TP
.B SOCK_RDM
Provides a connectionless datagram service with reliable delivery including
retransmission.  Message boundaaries are preserved.
This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/m3ua-tpi-cl
transport service provider.
.TP
.B SOCK_SEQPACKET
Provides a pseudo-connection-oriented packet service with reliable delivery
including retransmission.  Message boundaries are preserved.  Messages can be
sent and received in order.
This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/m3ua-tpi-co
transport service provider.
.PP
The following entries in
.B /etc/protosw
provide the information necessary for
.BR socksys (4)
to use these devices:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
llllll.
PF_SS7:SOCK_RDM:SS7PROTO_M3UA:/dev/m3ua-tpi-cl:tpi:clts
PF_SS7:SOCK_SEQPACKET:SS7PROTO_M3UA:/dev/m3ua-tpi-co:tpi:cots
.TE
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR protosw (5).
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B M3UA
can be configured on a system as a drop in transparent replacement for
.BR mtp (4).
In such a configuration, users opening streams or sockets as defined in
.BR mtp (4)
will be opening
.B m3ua
streams and sockets, but will be unaware of the difference.  In
.BR OpenSS7 ,
.B m3ua
is used as the primary mechanism of redundancy and distribution at the
.B MTP
level, and, when properly configured (see
.BR ss7confd (8)),
.B m3ua
functions transparently to the MTP-User.
.PP
Also, opening and binding a
.B m3ua
stream or socket may result in the opening and binding of a
.BR mtp (4)
stream on the local or remote host in direct support of the local MTP-User.
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
system calls on the
.I m3ua_stream
or
.IR m3ua_socket .
These management controls are documented in
.BR m3ua_ioctl (4).
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/m3ua ,
.IR /dev/m3ua-npi-cl ,
.IR /dev/m3ua-npi-co ,
.IR /dev/m3ua-tpi-cl ,
.IR /dev/m3ua-tpi-co .
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/mtpi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/m3ua_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_ss7.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_mtp.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_ss7.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_mtp.h> ,
.BR <xti.h> ,
.BR <xti_mtp.h> ,
.BR <sys/socket.h> .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR mtpi (7),
.BR mtp_npi (7),
.BR mtp_tpi (7),
.BR xti_mtp (3),
.BR mtp_socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR m3ua_ioctl (4).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B M3UA
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
stack.  This is Version 2 of the interface.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
