'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MG.4.man,v 0.9.2.8 2008-04-29 07:10:17 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:17 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: MG.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2008-04-29 07:10:17  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/05 09:43:02  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MG 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B MG
\- OpenSS7 Media Gateway Devices
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int " mg_stream " = open(" mg_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" mg_stream ", " \fRI_PUSH\fI ", " mg_module );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.I OpenSS7
call framework,
.BR cframe (3),
approach to call processing is to separate service logic, call control and
media control into separate interfaces.  This permits service logic, call
control and media control components to be mixed and matched in support of
local and remote nodes.
.PP
The
.IR "Media Gateway" ,
.BR MG ,
components of this model are described here.
The
.B MG
components are responsible for the media control of the triple-headed call
processing model.  To accomodate media control, the
.B OpenSwitch
framework describes interfaces at three levels as follows (beginning from the
uppermost level):
.TP
.BR mgi (7)
.I Media Gateway Interface
is an interface peculiar to the
.B OpenSS7
stack that provides control over Media Gateways using a number of protocols as
provided by some of the drivers listed below.
.TP
.BR mxi (7)
.I Multiplex Interface
is an interface peculiar to the
.B OpenSS7
stack
that provides access to channel multiplexers for use by media gateway
control above.
.TP
.BR chi (7)
.I Channel Interface
is an interface peculiar to the
.B OpenSS7
stack
that provides access to channels for use by channel multiplexers and the
media gateway control above.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.B MG
related collection of drivers and modules provide the Media Gateway control
capabilities in a number of related forms, including local switching, MGCP,
H.248, H.245 and GSM-A variants.
.\"
.\"
.SS DRIVERS
.PP
.B MG
provides the following
.IR STREAMS (4)
pseudo-device drivers:
.TP
.BR mgc (4)
is a pseudo-device driver that provides distributed switching access to other
media gateway devices supporting the Media Gateway Interface,
.BR mxi (7).
This includes both local switching control using the
.BR mg (4)
driver, as well as remote switching control using the
.BR mgcp (4)
and
.BR h248 (4)
drivers.
This driver also provides the cornerstone of redundant media gateway control
in that it permits both local and remote control of media gateways.
.TP
.BR mg (4)
.I Local switching
is a local switching driver that provides media gateway control of local
switching matrices.  This provides
.BR mgi (7)
control of local interface devices.
This supports the linking of streams supporting the
Multiplex Interface,
.BR mxi (7),
and Channel Interface,
.BR chi (7),
such as local device drivers and RTP multiplexes.
.TP
.BR mgcp (4)
.I Media Gateway Control Protocol (MGCP)
is a pseudo-device driver that provides an
.BR mgi (7)
interface for both MG- and MGC-mode nodes, providing media gateway control of
both local and remote media gateways using the MGCP protocol
.TP
.BR h248 (4)
.I MEGACO/H.248
is a pseudo-device driver that provides an
.BR mgi (7)
interface for both MG- and MGC-mode nodes, providing media gateway control of
both local and remote media gateways using the MEGACO protocol.
.TP
.BR mx (4)
.I Local Multiplex
is a local multiplex driver that provides
a Multiplex Interface (MXI),
.BR mxi (7),
adding multiplex support to local channel devices conforming to the Channel
Interface (CHI),
.BR chi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SS MODULES
.PP
.B MG
provides the following
.IR STREAMS (4)
pushable modules:
.TP
.BR rt (4)
.I Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP)
is a pushable module that provides Channel Interface,
.BR chi (7),
interface to RTP streams providing for switching of RTP streams using the
local switching model of the
.BR mg (4)
driver.
.SS DEVICES
.PP
.B MG
provides the following
.IR STREAMS (4)
device drivers:
.TP
.BR x100p (4)
.TP
.BR x400p (4)
.TP
.BR pca200e (4)
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
