'\" tr
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mgcp.4,v 0.9 2004/01/17 07:59:24 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:24 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MGCP 4 "$Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:24 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 Media Gateway Devices"
.SH NAME
.B MGCP
\- Media Gateway Control Protocol (MGCP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mgi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mgi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mgcp_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " mgcp_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/mgcp\fI ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B MGCP
is an implementation of the
.I Media Gateway Control Protocol (MGCP) Version 1.0
as specified in
.BR "RFC 2705" .
.PP
.B MGCP
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.PP
.BR mg (4)
streams, or streams conforming to the Media Gateway Interface (MGI),
.BR mgi (7),
can be
.IR I_LINK ed
or
.IR I_PLINK ed
under the
.IR mgcp_stream ,
to provide MG services to the multiplexing driver.
.BR mgi (7)
streams linked in this fashion must first be configured for use using the
.BR mgcp_ioctl (4)
IO controls.
This function is normally performed by the MG Configuration Daemon,
.BR mgconfd (8).
.PP
Transport streams
conforming to the Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.BR tpi (7),
such as
.BR tcp (4),
can also be
.IR I_LINK ed
or
.IR I_PLINK ed
under the
.IR mgcp_stream ,
to provide transport services for communicating with remote MG or MGC hosts.
.BR tpi (7)
streams linked in this fashion must first be configured for use using the
.BR mgcp_ioctl (4)
IO controls.
This function is normally performed by the MG Configuration Daemon,
.BR mgconfd (8).
.PP
.B MGCP
provides the following devices:
.TP
.I /dev/mgcp
This device provides a Media Gatewway Interface (MGI) as described in
.BR mgi (7),
with integrated for
.B MGCP
operation as described in
.BR mgi_mgcp (7).
This device is suitable for use with the
.BR mgc (4)
driver, or other SS7 modules and drivers, or for direct use by
user-level programs such as the
.B OpenSwitch
call framework library,
.BR cframe (3).
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.B MGCP
provides the common set of Local Management IO controls accessible using the
.BR ioctl (2)
or
.I I_STR
command to the
.BR streamio (2)
system calls, as described in
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
interpreted for use by
.B MGCP
as described in
.BR mgcp_ioctl (4).
These IO controls, and the IO controls described for MGI devices in
.BR mg_ioctl (4),
are available on the
.I mgcp_stream
file descriptor.
.\".SH CAVEATS
.PP
.\".SH BUGS
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/mgi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mgi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mgi_mgcp.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mgcp_ioctl.h> .
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/mgcp .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MG (4),
.BR mgc (4),
.BR mgi (7),
.BR mg_ioctl (4),
.BR mgcp_ioctl (4),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR tcp (4),
.BR mgconfd (8),
.BR cframe (3).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
.B MGCP
is peculiar to the
.B OpenSS7
Media Gateway stack and supports Version 1.0 of the MGCP protocol.
.PP
.B MGCP
does not appear until
.B strss7
release 0.8.4.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
RFC 2705
.]
.[
RFC 2897
.]
.[
RFC 3064
.]
.[
RFC 3149
.]
.[
RFC 3435
.]
.[
RFC 3441
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TA
