'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mtp-mod.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-30 14:05:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-30 14:05:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mtp-mod.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-30 14:05:05  brian
.\" - updates to pass make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-04-28 07:39:45  brian
.\" - added missing manpages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP-MOD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mtp-mod, mtp_mod
\- Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) Message Transfer Part (MTP) Module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mtpi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mtpi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B MTP-MOD
is a minimal implementation of Message Transfer Part (MTP) in
the spirit of
Q.710
.[
q710
.]
but that also supports ANSI
.[
ansi t1.111
.]
and other protocol variants.  It is pushed directly over a
Signalling Link (SL) Stream to form a mimimal MTP.  The
signalling link provided by the SL Stream is an F-link
consisting of a single link within a single linkset.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B MTP-MOD
implements an
.BR M_CTL "(9) and " M_PCCTL (9)
based interface for both the upper and lower service
interfaces for efficiency.  The
.BR M_CTL "(9) and " M_PCCTL (9)
interface is designed to work identical to the
.BR M_PROTO "(9) and " M_PCPROTO (9)
interfaces provided by the Stream head, with the exception that,
because the Stream head cannot directly generate
.BR M_CTL "(9) or " M_PCCTL (9)
messages, they may be used for trusted inter-module messages
with greater efficiency.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B MTP-MOD
modules are not normally pushed or accessed directly by
user-level programs.  The
.B MTP-MOD
module is used directly by some test and monitoring programs.
The following steps are taken to establish this minimal MTP
facility:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
Open a STREAMS-based Signalling Link (SL) using the
.BR open (2s)
system call.
.IP 2.
Attach the SL Stream using the
.BR LMI_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive (if necessary).
.IP 2.
Enable the SL Stream using the
.BR LMI_ENABLE_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP 3.
Push the
.BR mtp-mod
module onto the Stream using the
.BR I_PUSH (7)
STREAMS IO control.
.IP 4.
Configure the MTP Stream using MTP IO controls.
.IP 5.
Bind the MTP Stream using the
.BR MTP_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP 6.
Exchange data on the MTP Stream using the
.BR MTP_DATA_REQ (7)
and
.BR MTP_DATA_IND (7)
primitives.
.IP 7.
Unbind the MTP Stream using the
.BR MTP_UNBIND_REQ (7)
primtiive.
.IP 8.
Pop the MTP module using the
.BR I_POP (7)
STREAMS IO control.
.IP 9.
Disable the SL Stream using the
.BR LMI_DISABLE_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP 10.
Detach the SL Stream using the
.BR LMI_DETACH_REQ (7)
primitive (if necessary).
.IP 11.
Close the SL Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B MTP-MOD
module responds to Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
IO controls as interprested for
.B MTP
operation as described in
.BR mtpi_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.RB < ss7/lmi.h >,
.RB < ss7/lmi_ioctl.h >,
.RB < ss7/mtpi.h >,
.RB < ss7/mtpi_ioctl.h >,
.RB < ss7/npi.h >,
.RB < ss7/npi_ss7.h >,
.RB < ss7/npi_mtp >,
.RB < ss7/tpi.h >,
.RB < ss7/tpi_ss7.h >,
.RB < ss7/tpi_mtp >,
.RB < xti.h >,
.RB < xti_mtp.h >.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.TP
.B streams-mtp_mod.o
Implements the
.B MTP-MOD
module named
.RI \(lq mtp-mod \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR sl (4),
.BR mtp (4),
.BR mtpi (7),
.BR mtpi_ioctl (4),
.BR npi_mtp (7),
.BR tpi_mtp (7),
.BR xti_mtp (3),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR ss7confd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B MTP-MOD
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
SS7 application programming interfaces have not been subject to
standardization; however, where the OSI APIs are direclty
applicable to protocol layers of the SS7 stacks, OpenSS7
provides OSI compatible interfaces.  Thus,
.B MTP-MOD
is largely compatible with implementations providing the NPI
interface
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
for use with MTP,
.BR npi_mtp (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SS7 does not have a traditional and standard implementation;
however, the implementation standards from the OSI are in many
cases directly applicable.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The MTP Interface (MTPI) is specific to the
.B OpenSS7 
SS7 Stack.
This is Version 2 of the interface.
The
.B MTP-MOD
module conforms to the MTPI Specifiction, Revision 0.8.2.
.[
mtpi
.]
.PP
The
.B MTP-MOD
module first appeared publicly in the
.B @PACKAGE@
release 0.9a.8.
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
SS7 Stack.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI

