'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mtp-min.4.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-30 14:05:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-30 14:05:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mtp-min.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-30 14:05:05  brian
.\" - updates to pass make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-29 07:10:18  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/04/05 09:43:04  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP-MIN 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mtp-min, mtp_min
\- Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) Minimal Message Transfer Part (MTP)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mtpi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mtpi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " mtp_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " mtp_xtistr " = t_open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B MTP-MIN
is an implementation of the Signalling System No. 7
.RB ( SS7 (4))
Message Transfer Part
.RB ( MTP )
defined in
.I ITU-T Recommendation Q.710.
.[
q710
.]
but also supports a subset of ANSI,
.[
ansi t1.111
.]
ETSI
.[
mtpv1
.]
and simplified forms of other national variants.
.PP
Whereas
.BR mtp-mod (4)
is implemented as a pushable STREAMS module,
.B MTP-MIN
is implemented as a STREAMS multiplexing driver and, as such,
can accomodate a much wider range of applications (such as
multiple signalling point codes per signalling link).  Streams
providing the Signalling Link (SL) interface,
.BR sli (7),
are linked under the multiplexing driver using the
.BR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
STREAMS input-output controls and configured using MTP
input-output controls,
.BR mtpi_ioctl (4).
This forms a complete MTP protocol layer for SS7.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Normally, in SS7, the complete MTP layer is used.  See,
.BR mtp (4).
.B MTP-MIN
has specific applications for minimalistic sinalling end point
(SEP) applications such as those found in F-link only operation
directly between signalling end points and more notably for
GSM-A interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B MTP-MIN
implements an
.BR M_CTL "(9) and " M_PCCTL (9)
based interface for both the upper and lower multiplex service
interfaces for efficiency.  The
.BR M_CTL "(9) and " M_PCCTL (9)
interface is designed to work identical to the
.BR M_PROTO "(9) and " M_PCPROTO (9)
interfaces provided by the Stream head, with the exception that,
because the Stream head cannot directly generate
.BR M_CTL "(9) or " M_PCCTL (9)
messages, they may be used for trusted inter-module messages
with greater efficiency.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"The
.\".B MTP-MIN
.\"multiplexing driver is not normally configured or accessed
.\"directly by user-level programs.  The
.\".B MTP-MIN
.\"multiplexing driver is used directly by some test and monitoring
.\"programs.  The following steps are taken to establish this
.\"minimal MTP facility:
.\".IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
.\"Open a control stream on the
.\".B MTP-MIN
.\"multiplexing driver (by opening, for example,
.\".BR /dev/streams/mtp-min/1 ).
.\".IP 2.
.\"Open and configure Signalling Link (SL) Streams for use by the
.\".B MTP-MIN
.\"multiplexing driver.  For each opened and configured Signalling
.\"Link (SL) Stream, link the Stream beneath the
.\".B MTP-MIN
.\"multiplexing driver using the
.\".BR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
.\"STREAMS input-output control.
.\".IP 3.
.\".IP 4.
.\".IP 5.
.\".IP 6.
.\".IP 7.
.\".IP 8.
.\".IP 9.
.\".IP 10.
.\".IP 11.
.\".IP 12.
.\".IP 13.
.\".IP 14.
.\".IP 15.
.\".IP 16.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACES
.PP
At the upper multiplex,
.B MTP-MIN
provides the Message Transfer Part Interface (MTPI),
.[
mtpi
.]
.BR mtpi (7),
and the MTP input-output control interface,
.BR mtpi_ioctl (4).
This interface directly models the MTP Primitives
.[
q701
.]
as STREAMS messages in a similar fashion to the NPI.
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.PP
At the lower multiplex,
.B MTP-MIN
provides the Signalling Link Interface (SLI),
.[
sli
.]
.BR sli (7).
This interface models the Signalling Link signals
.[
q703
.]
as STREAMS messages in a similar fashion to the DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B MTP-MIN
module response to Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
input-output controls as interpreted for
.B MTP
operation as described in
.BR mtpi_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.RB < ss7/lmi.h >,
.RB < ss7/lmi_ioctl.h >,
.RB < ss7/mtpi.h >,
.RB < ss7/mtpi_ioctl.h >,
.RB < ss7/npi.h >,
.RB < ss7/npi_ss7.h >,
.RB < ss7/npi_mtp >,
.RB < ss7/tpi.h >,
.RB < ss7/tpi_ss7.h >,
.RB < ss7/tpi_mtp >,
.RB < xti.h >,
.RB < xti_mtp.h >.
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
.TP
.B streams-mtp_min.o
Implements the
.B MTP-MIN
multiplexing driver named
.RI \(lq mtp-min \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR sl (4),
.BR mtp (4),
.BR mtpi (7),
.BR mtpi_ioctl (4),
.BR npi_mtp (7),
.BR tpi_mtp (7),
.BR xti_mtp (3),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR ss7confd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B MTP-MIN
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
SS7 application programming interfaces have not been subject to
standardization; however, where the OSI APIs are directly
applicable to protocol layers of the SS7 stacks, OpenSS7
provides OSI compatible interfaces.  Thus,
.B MTP-MIN
is largely compatible with implementations providing the NPI
interface
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
for use with MTP,
.BR npi_mtp (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SS7 does not have a traditional and standard implementation;
however, the implementation standards from the OSI are in may
cases directly applicable.
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The MTP Interface (MTPI) is specific to the
.B OpenSS7 
SS7 Stack.
This is Version 2 of the interface.
The
.B MTP-MIN
multiplexing driver conforms to the MTPI Specification, Revision 0.9.2.
.[
mtpi
.]
.PP
The
.B MTP-MIN
multiplexing driver first appeared publicly in the
.B @PACKAGE@
release 0.9a.8.
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
SS7 Stack.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI

