'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mtp.4.man,v 0.9.2.8 2007/08/03 13:34:49 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/08/03 13:34:49 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mtp.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2007/08/03 13:34:49  brian
.\" - manual updates, put ss7 modules in public release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/05 09:43:04  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B MTP
\- Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) Message Transfer Part (MTP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/mtpi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mtpi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " mtp_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " mtp_xtistr " = t_open(" device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " mtp_socket " = socket(" \fRPF_SS7\fI ", " socket_type ", " \fRSS7PROTO_MTP\fI );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B MTP
is an implementation of the Signalling System No. 7
.RB ( SS7 (4))
Message Transfer Part
.RB ( MTP )
defined in
.I ITU-T Recommendation Q.704,
.[
q704
.]
.I ETSI ETS 300 008-1,
.[
mtpv1
.]
.IR "ANSI T1.111.4" ,
.[
t1.111
.]
and other
.[
jtq704
.]
national standards.
.PP
.B MTP
provides reliable sequenced or unsequenced delivery of packets over a
connectionless or pseudo-connection-mode transport between two
.B MTP
endpoints.
.B MTP
provides strong assurances that the data arrives in order on a stream, if
requested, and maintains sequencing of packets in the face of most network
failures.  It generates and checks a per-packet checksum to catch transmission
errors.
.B MTP
routing routes around link and node failures in the
.BR SS7 (4)
network.
.PP
.B MTP
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR sl (4),
.BR m2ua (4)
or
.BR m2pa (4)
streams are linked under the
.B MTP
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide link services to
.BR MTP .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR mtp_ioctl (4).
.PP
.B MTP
is also implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
pushable module.  For more information on the pushable module, see
.BR mtp-mod (4).
.SS "Device Names"
.PP
Each
.B MTP
device name presents a different service primitive interface to the user
program as follows:
.TP
.IR /dev/mtp ", " mtp-mtpi
This device provides the
.B MTP
protocol service interface using the M-primitives of the
Message Transfer Part Interface (MTPI)
.[
mtpi revision 0.9.2
.]
described in
.BR mtpi (7).
The
.BR mtpi (7).
service interface is suitable for use with other OpenSS7 SS7 and
SIGTRAN modules and drivers, such as the
.BR m3ua-sg (4)
multiplexing driver.
.TP
.IR /dev/mtp-npi-cl ", " mtp-npi-co
This device provides the
.B MTP
protocol service interface using the N-primitives of the
Network Provider Interface (NPI)
.[
NPI
.]
described in
.BR npi (7),
used for the Message Transfer Part as described in
.BR npi_mtp (7).
The
.BR npi (7)
interface provided on a stream openin this device is suitable for use directly
by a user program.
.I mtp-npi-cl
provides a connectionless
.B N_CLNS
network service provider;
.I mtp-npi-co
provides a pseudo-connection-mode
.B N_CONS
network service provider.
.TP
.IR /dev/mtp-tpi-cl ", " mtp-tpi-co
This device provides the
.B MTP
protocol service interface using the T-primitives of the
Transport Provider Interface (TPI)
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
described in
.BR tpi (7),
used for the Message Transfer Part as described in
.BR tpi_mtp (7).
The
.BR tpi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR xnet (3)
or
.BR xti (3)
library and provides the MTP interface using XTI as described in
.BR xti_mtp (3).
.I mtp-tpi-cl
provides a connectionless
.B T_CLTS
transport service provider;
.I mtp-tpi-co
provides a pseudo-connection-mode
.B T_COTS
transport service provider.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Socket Types"
.PP
.B MTP
provides two socket types used by the
.BR sockets (3)
library
.BR socket (3)
call.
.B MTP
provides sockets in the protocol family
.B PF_SS7
using the protocol number
.BR SS7PROTO_MTP .
The
.I socket_type
argument can be one of the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B SOCK_RDM
Provides a connectionless datagram service with reliable delivery including
retransmission.  Message boundaries are preserved.  This socket uses the
underlying
.I /dev/mtp-tpi-cl
transport service provider.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B SOCK_SEQPACKET
Provides a pseudo-connection-mode packet service with reliable delivery
including retransmission.  Message boundaries are preserved.  Messages can be
sent and received in order, if requested.  This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/mtp-tpi-co
transport service provider.
.\"
.PP
The following entries in /etc/protosw provide the information necesary for
.BR socksys (4)
to use these devices:
.\"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
llllll.
\fCPF_SS7:SOCK_RDM:SS7PROTO_MTP:/dev/mtp-tpi-cl:tpi:clts
\fCPF_SS7:SOCK_SEQPACKET:SS7PROTO_MTP:/dev/mtp-tpi-co:tpi:cots
.TE
.\"
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR protosw (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B MTP
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver provides a number of device names that can be opened by user
programs with the
.BR open (2s)
system call (see above under
.RI \(lq "Device Names" \(rq).
The
.BR open (2s)
system call returns a file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
that can be used to make other system
calls on the open
.B MTP
Stream.
Each
.B MTP
Stream provides a service primitive interface that implements the MTP protocol.
The system call,
.BR putpmsg (2s),
can be called to issue service primitives on the interface;
.BR getpmsg (2s),
to receive primitives.
.BR ioctl (2s)
as described in
.BR streamio (7)
and
.BR mtp_ioctl (7)
can be used to manage the Stream and the MTP provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interface support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
system calls on the
.IR mtp_stream ", " mtp_xtistr " or " mtp_socket .
These management controls are documented in
.BR mtp_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B MTP
does not provide a true connection-mode network service, only a
pseudo-connection-mode network service where ther first message sent is
considered a connection request and the first message received is considered a
connection indication with data for the source address or connection
confirmation with data.  Pseudo-connection mode is useful for MTP users that
rely heavily on the insequence delivery within a signalling link selection
between pairs of signalling end points in quasi-associated mode.  An example
of such an MTP user is ISUP.  ISUP communicate with regard to circuit
identification codes between switching centers with SS7 ISUP messages between
signalling end points corresponding to these pairs of switching centers.  For
this reason, it is conventient to consider the signalling end point and
switching center pairs as 'connected'.
.PP
For another example, an Service Control Point (SCP) in the SS7 network serves a
number of Service Switching Points (SSPs).  Each of the SSPs is considered to
be a concerned signalling point for the Service Control Point (SCP).  From
the viewpoint of both the SCP and individual SSP, the signalling relation between
the SCP and SSP can be considered to be a 'connection'.
.PP
In general, whenever a signalling relation exists between two MTP users, that
signalling relation can be considered as a 'connection'.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR mtpi (7),
.BR npi_mtp (7),
.BR tpi_mtp (7),
.BR xti_mtp (3),
.BR mtp_socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR mtp_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/mtpi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mtpi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_ss7.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_mtp.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_ss7.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_mtp.h> ,
.BR <xti.h> ,
.BR <xti_mtp.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.HP
.IR /dev/mtp ,
.IR mtp-mtpi .
These device names are two names for the same device.  The device provides a
clone or auto-clone Stream providing the MTPI
.[
mtpi revision 0.9.2
.]
interface, not associated with a Signalling Point.  This device can also be
opened using the
.BR specfs (5)
entry,
.IR /dev/streams/mtp/mtp .
Additional
.BR specfs (5)
device entries,
.IR /dev/streams/mtp/mtp01 " through " mtp31 ,
may be opened to obtain a Stream associated with Signalling Points 1 throu 31,
depending on the minor device number.
.HP
.IR /dev/mtp-npi-cl ,
.IR mtp-npi-co .
These devices provide an auto-clone Stream providing the NPI
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR N_CLNS " or " N_CONS
interface, not assocaited with a Signalling Point.
These devices can also be opened using the
.BR specfs (5)
entry,
.IR /dev/streams/mtp/npcl " or " npco .
Additional
.BR specfs (5)
device entries,
.IR /dev/streams/mtp/npcl01 " through " npcl31 ", and " npco01 " through " npco31 ,
may be opened to obtain a Stream associated with Signalling Point 1 thorugh 32,
depending on the minor device number.
.HP
.IR /dev/mtp-mgmt .
This device provides an auto-clone Stream providing the management interface,
not associated with a Signalling Point.
This device can also be opened using the
.BR specfs (5)
entry,
.IR /dev/streams/mtp/lm .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The MTP interface is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
SS7 stack.
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.\"
.\"
.TI
