'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=100
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mtp_npi.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/02/17 02:49:08 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/02/17 02:49:08 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mtp_npi.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/02/17 02:49:08  brian
.\" - first clean recompile of MTP modules on LFS
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/02/14 14:07:59  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP-NPI 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B mtp_npi
\- Message Transfer Part (MTP) Network Provider Interface (NPI)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/npi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_ss7.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_mtp.h>
.HP
.BI "int " mtp_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/mtp-npi\fI ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " mtp_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/mtp\fI ", " flags );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" \fRI_PUSH\fR ", " \fR\(lqmtp_npi\(rq\fR );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B MTP-NPI
provides a Stream supporting the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
to the Message Transfer Part (MTP),
.[
q701
.]
.BR mtp (4).
This interface is intended solely for the use by user programs or protocol modules requiring the common
.BR npi (7)
interface.
.PP
A corregendum for the use of the Network Provider Interface (NPI)
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
with the Message Transfer Part (MTP)
.[
q701
.]
is described in more detail in
.BR npi_mtp (7).
.PP
.B MTP-NPI
provides a conversion module, name
.RB \(lq mtp_npi \(rq,
that provides conversion between the NPI for SS7,
.BR npi_mtp (7),
at the upper service interfce boundary,
and the MTPI,
.BR mtpi (7),
at the lower service interfce boundary.
The
.B MTP-NPI
modules is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (9)
pushable module.  The
.B mtp_npi
module is pushed over an
.BR mtp (4)
MTPI Stream using the
.IR I_PUSH (7)
command of
.BR streamio (7),
or the
.BR autopush (8)
utility,
to provide a Network Provider Interface (NPI) to the MTPI Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.RB < sys/npi_mtp.h >.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/mtp
.TP
.B /dev/mtp-npi
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.TP
.B mtp_npi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR open (2s),
.BR mtpi (7),
.BR npi (7),
.BR npi_mtp (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B MTP-NPI
devices and modules have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B MTP-NPI
devices and modules are compatible with the Message Transfer Part Interface (MTPI),
.BR mtpi (7),
and the Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
as described in Corrigendum for MTP,
.BR mtp_npi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Q.701 ,
.[
q701
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.IR "NPI Revision 2.0.0" ,
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-mtp-npi (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B MTP-NPI
devices and
module is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
stack.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI




