'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mx.4.man,v 0.9.2.8 2006/04/05 09:43:04 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:04 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mx.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:43:04  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MX 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B mx, MX
\- Multiplex (MX) Media Drivers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/mxi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mxi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BF "int " mx_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B MX
is an implementation of a local multiplex control for devices conforming to
the
.BR mxi (7)
interface.
.B MX
provides for the control of the matrix and underlying interfaces and
communication facilities.
.PP
.B MX
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
driver.
.B MX
Streams can be linked under the
.BR MG (4)
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide multiplex services to the
.BR MG (4)
multiplexing driver.
.B MX
Streams can be configured using
.BR mxi_ioctl (4).
.SS Drivers
.PP
.B MX
provides the following Stream types that are directly compatible with the
Stream types provided by other
.BR MX
drivers.  To select one of these Stream types, the
.I device
argument to the
.BR open (2)
call can be one of the following:
.TP
.I /dev/mx
This device provides the
.B MX
protocol service interface using the MX-primitives of the Multiplex Interface
described in
.BR mxi (7),
as interpreted for use with local swithcing drivers described in
.BR mxi_mx (7).
This interface is suitable both for use with other SS7 modules and drivers, as
well as with the
.BR mg (4)
driver using the
.B OpenSwitch
call framework.
.TP
.BR x400p (4)
.TP
.BR x100p (4)
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Unlike other OpenSS7 protocol modules and drivers providing transport
communications services,
.B MX
does not provide a
.BR sockets (3)
interface.  This is because the special needs of switch multiplex control are
divorced from the sockets paradigm.
.PP
On the other hand, the
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.I I_STR
commands to the
.BR streamio (7)
system calls on the
.I mx_stream
file descriptor.  These management controls are documented in
.BR mx_ioctl (4).
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/mxi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mxi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mx_ioctl.h> .
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/mx .
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B MX
drivers have no known bugs.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MG (4),
.BR mxconfd (8),
.BR mxi (7).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B MX
interface is specific to the
.BR OpenSS7
MG stack.  This is Version 1 of the interface.
.PP
MXI interfaces are consistent with MXI Revision 0.9.2.
.PP
The
.B MX
driver does not appear until
.B strss7
release 0.9.2.
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
