'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: OpenSS7.4.man,v 0.9.2.10 2006/12/27 16:35:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/12/27 16:35:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: OpenSS7.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2006/12/27 16:35:53  brian
.\" - added slpmod module and fixups for make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/04/26 10:45:00  brian
.\" - updated manual pages and references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:43:02  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR [\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH OpenSS7 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B OpenSS7
\- OpenSS7 Devices, Drivers and Modules
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
The OpenSS7 stacks provide a wide array of device drviers, pseudo-device
drivers and modules.  This manual page provides an overview of the major
device and module groupings and some of the members within each grouping.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS Drivers and Modules
.PP
The OpenSS7 stacks provides the following major driver and module groupings:
.TP
.BR SS7 (4)
The
.B OpenSS7
SS7
.[
q700
.]
stack consists of the following components (see
.BR SS7 (4)
for more information):
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lbl.
isup\fR(4):ISDN User Part (ISUP)
.[
q761
.]
.[
t1.113
.]
.[
isupv4
.]
bicc\fR(4):Bearer Independent Call Control (BICC)
.[
q1902
.]
.[
t1bicc
.]
tcap\fR(4):Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP)
.[
q771
.]
.[
t1.114
.]
sccp\fR(4):Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP)
.[
q711
.]
.[
t1.112
.]
.[
sccpv2
.]
.[
jtq711
.]
mtp\fR(4):Message Transfer Part Level 3 (MTP3)
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
q2210
.]
sl\fR(4):Message Trasnfer Part Level 2 (MTP2), or Signalling Link (SL)
.[
q703
.]
.[
q2140
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
sdt\fR(4):Signalling Terminal (SDT)
.[
q702
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
sdl\fR(4):Signalling Data Link (SDL)
.[
q702
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
mtpv1
.]
acb56\fR(4):V.35 driver for the SeaLevel ACB56 card
x100p\fR(4):Single E1 or T1 driver for the T100P-SS7 or E100P-SS7 card
x400p\fR(4):Quad E1 or T1 driver for the T400P-SS7 or E400P-SS7 card
pca200e\fR(4):STS-3 driver for the PCA-200E card
cpc388\fR(4):H.110 driver for the CPC-388 card
.TE
.TP
.BR INET (4)
The
.B OpenSS7 (4)
INET
stack consists of the following components (see
.BR INET (4)
for more information):
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lbl.
socksys\fR(4):Socket System
sctp\fR(4):Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)
.[
rfc2960
.]
.[
rfc3309
.]
.[
rfc3758
.]
.[
draft-stewart-tsvwg-addip-07.txt
.]
sscop\fR(4):Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol (SSCOP)
tcp\fR(4):Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
udp\fR(4):User Datagram Protocol (UDP)
ip\fR(4):Internet Protocol (IP)
timod\fR(4):Transport Interface Module (TIMOD)
sockmod\fR(4):Socket Module (SOCKMOD)
ldl\fR(4):Linux DL (LDL)
.TE
.sp
Note that
.B OpenSS7
also provides a Linux NET4 native kernel socket implementation of Stream
Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP).
.[
rfc2960
.]
.[
rfc3309
.]
See
.BR sctp (7)
for more information on this
.RI non- STREAMS
implementation.
The sockets implementation can also be used with TPI
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
and XTI
.[
XTI
.]
.[
XNS
.]
using the
.B strinet
package as is used for
.BR tcp "(4), " udp "(4) and " ip (4).
See
.BR sctp (4)
for more information.
.TP
.BR SIGTRAN (4)
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lbl.
bua\fR(4):BICC-User Adaptation Layer (BUA)
isua\fR(4):ISUP-User Adaptation Layer (ISUA)
tua\fR(4):TCAP-User Adaptation Layer (TUA)
sua\fR(4):SCCP-User Adaptation Layer (SUA)
m3ua\fR(4):MTP3-User Adaptation Layer (M3UA)
m2ua\fR(4):MTP2-User Adaptation Layer (M2UA)
m2pa\fR(4):MTP2-User Peer-to-Peer Adaptation Layer (M2PA)
iua\fR(4):ISDN-Q.921 Adaptation Layer (IUA)
dua\fR(4):DPNSS/DASS 2 Adaptation Layer (DUA)
v5ua\fR(4):V5.2 Adaptation Layer (V5UA)
gr303ua\fR(4):GR-303 Adaptation Layer (GR303UA)
.TE
.TP
.BR ISDN (4)
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lbl.
isdn\fR(4):Integrated Service Digital Network (ISDN) Q.931
capi\fR(4):Common-ISDN API (CAPI)
v5\fR(4):V5.2
gr303\fR(4):GR-303
dl\fR(4):Data Link (DL)
hdlc\fR(4):High-Level Data Link Control (HDLC)
x100p\fR(4):Single E1 or T1 driver for the T100P-SS7 or E100P-SS7 card
x400p\fR(4):Quad E1 or T1 driver for the T400P-SS7 or E400P-SS7 card
pca200e\fR(4):STS-3 driver for the PCA-200E card
cpc388\fR(4):H.110 driver for the CPC-388 card
.TE
.TP
.BR VOIP (4)
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lbl.
h225\fR(4):
sipt\fR(4):Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) for Telephones (SIP-T)
bicc\fR(4):Bearer Independent Call Control (BICC)
.TE
.TP
.BR MG (4)
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lbl.
mgc\fR(4):Media Gateway Controller (MGC)
mg\fR(4):Media Gateway (MG)
mgcp\fR(4):Media Gateway Control Protocol (MGCP)
h248\fR(4):Gateway Control Protocol (MEGACO)
mx\fR(4):Multiplex (MX)
rt\fR(4):Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP)
x100p\fR(4):Single E1 or T1 driver for the T100P-SS7 or E100P-SS7 card
x400p\fR(4):Quad E1 or T1 driver for the T400P-SS7 or E400P-SS7 card
pca200e\fR(4):STS-3 driver for the PCA-200E card
cpc388\fR(4):H.110 driver for the CPC-388 card
.TE
.TP
.BR STREAMS (4)
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lbl.
fifo\fR(4):
clone\fR(4):
sad\fR(4):
ldl\fR(4):
inet\fR(4):
pipemod\fR(4):
timod\fR(4):
sockmod\fR(4):
socksys\fR(4):
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SS Libraries
.PP
The OpenSS7 stacks provide the following libraries:
.TP
.BR xti "(3), " xnet (3)
.TP
.BR sockets (3)
.TP
.BR cframe (3)
.TP
.BR OpenSwitch (3)
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
This manual page is incomplete.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
Need to list these.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
Need to list these.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR isup (4),
.BR bicc (4),
.BR tcap (4),
.BR sccp (4),
.BR mtp (4),
.BR sl (4),
.BR sdt (4),
.BR sdl (4),
.BR acb56 (4),
.BR x100p (4),
.BR x400p (4),
.BR pca200e (4),
.BR cpc388 (4),
.BR INET (4),
.BR socksys (4),
.BR sctp (4),
.BR sscop (4),
.BR tcp (4),
.BR udp (4),
.BR ip (4),
.BR timod (4),
.BR sockmod (4),
.BR ldl (4),
.BR SIGTRAN (4),
.BR bua (4),
.BR isua (4),
.BR tua (4),
.BR sua (4),
.BR m3ua (4),
.BR m2ua (4),
.BR m2pa (4),
.BR iua (4),
.BR dua (4),
.BR v5ua (4),
.BR gr303ua (4),
.BR ISDN (4),
.BR isdn (4),
.BR capi (4),
.BR v5 (4),
.BR gr303 (4),
.BR dl (4),
.BR hdlc (4),
.BR x100p (4),
.BR x400p (4),
.BR pca200e (4),
.BR cpc388 (4),
.BR VOIP (4),
.BR h225 (4),
.BR sipt (4),
.BR bicc (4),
.BR MG (4),
.BR mgc (4),
.BR mg (4),
.BR mgcp (4),
.BR h248 (4),
.BR mx (4),
.BR rt (4),
.BR x100p (4),
.BR x400p (4),
.BR pca200e (4),
.BR cpc388 (4),
.BR STREAMS (4),
.BR fifo (4),
.BR clone (4),
.BR sad (4),
.BR ldl (4),
.BR inet (4),
.BR pipemod (4),
.BR timod (4),
.BR sockmod (4),
.BR socksys (4),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR cframe (3),
.BR OpenSwitch (3).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH VERSIONS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
