'\" tr
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: rtp.4,v 0.9 2004/01/17 07:59:24 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:24 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH RTP 4 "$Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:24 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 INET Drivers"
.SH NAME
.B RTP/RTCP
\- Real Time (Control) Protocol
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B RTP
is an implementation of the Real-Time Transport Protocol defined in RFC 1889.
.B RTP
provides the encapsulation and control of media in
.BR udp (4)
packets.
.PP
.B RTP
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
module that is pushed over a connectionless transport stream conforming to the
.BR tpi (7)
interface, such as
.BR udp (4).
The
.BR RTP
module provides a Channel Interface (CHI),
.BR chi (7),
to the stream head.
.B RTP
streams can be linked under the
.BR mx "(4), or " mg (4)
drivers to provide media streams into the Media Gateway,
.BR MG (4).
.SH IOCTLS
.SH CAVEATS
.SH BUGS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH VERSIONS
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
RFC 1889
.]
.[
RFC 2959
.]
.[
RFC 3158
.]
.[
RFC 3267
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TA
