'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sccp-mod.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-30 14:05:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-30 14:05:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sccp-mod.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-30 14:05:05  brian
.\" - updates to pass make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-04-28 07:39:45  brian
.\" - added missing manpages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SCCP-MOD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sccp-mod
\- Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP) Module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sccpi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sccpi_ioctl.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B SCCP-MOD
is a simplified implementation of the Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP)
.[
ansi t1.112
.]
.[
q711
.]
.[
q712
.]
.[
q713
.]
.[
q714
.]
.[
q715
.]
.[
q716
.]
.[
etsi en 300 009-1
.]
as a STREAMS module that can be pushed on an MTP Stream.  Either the MTP Stream
can be bound before pushing or after.  This is a simple case where all SCCP
messages belonging to all subsystems for a signalling point are delivered to the
same Stream.
.PP
.B SCCP-MOD
presents a Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP) Interface,
.BR sccpi (7),
to its user.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B SCCP-MOD
modules are not normally pushed or accessed directly by user-level programs.
The
.B SCCP-MOD
module is used directly by some test and monitoring programs.  The following
steps are taken to establish this minimal SCCP facility:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
Open an MTP Stream using the
.BR open (2s)
system call.
.IP 2.
Push the SCCP-MOD module using the
.BR I_PUSH (7)
STREAMS IO control.
.IP 3.
Bind the SCCP Stream using the
.BR N_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP 4.
Exchange data on the SCCP Stream using the
.BR N_DATA_REQ (7),
.BR N_DATA_IND (7),
.BR N_UNITDATA_REQ (7),
and
.BR N_UNITDATA_IND (7)
primitives.
.IP 5.
Unbind the SCCP Stream using the
.BR N_UNBIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP 6.
Pop the SCCP-MOD mdoule using the
.BR I_POP (7)
STREAMS IO control.
.IP 7.
Close the MTP Stream using the
.BR close (2s)
system call.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B SCCP-MOD
module responds to Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
IO controls as interprested for
.B SCCP
operation as described in
.BR sccpi_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.RB < ss7/npi >,
.RB < ss7/npi_sccp.h >.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.TP
.B streams-sccp_mod.o
Implements the
.B SCCP-MOD
module named
.RI \(lq sccp-mod \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR mtp (4),
.BR sccp (4),
.BR npi (7),
.BR sccpi_ioctl (4),
.BR ss7confd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B SCCP-MOD
modules conforms to the NPI Specification, Revision 2.0.0,
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
with extensions for SCCP.
.PP
The
.B SCCP-MOD
module first appeared publicly in the
.B @PACKAGE@
release 0.9a.8.
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
SS7 Stack.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI

