'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sdl-pmod.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-29 07:10:19 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:19 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sdl-pmod.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-29 07:10:19  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/07/21 20:15:10  brian
.\" - added documentation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SDL-PMOD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sdl-pmod
\- SS7 Q.702 Signalling Data Link module for STREAMS-basd Pipes
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdli.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = pipe(" streams "[], " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" streams "[0], " \fRI_PUSH\fI ", " \fR\*(lqsdl-pmod\*(rq\fI );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B SDL-PMOD
is an implementation of the Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) Signalling Data Link (SDL) as specified in
ITU-T Recommendation Q.702,
.[
q702
.]
but for STREAMS-based pipes instead of a syncrhonous communications channel.
.PP
.B SDL-PMOD
is implemented as a pushable
.IR STREAMS (4)
module.  The
.B SDL-PMOD
module can be pused over a STREAMS-based
.BR pipe (4).
The
.B SDL-PMOD
module provide data link access to the byte stream from the STREAMS-based pipe provided by the
.BR pipe (4)
stream below it.
.PP
The upper service interface provided by the
.B SDL-PMOD
module, to both sides of the pipe, is the Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI)
.[
sdli
.]
as described in
.BR sdli (7).
That is, regardless of the fact that the
.B SDL-PMOD
module is only pushed on one side of the pipe, both sides of the pipe exhibt the SDLI service
interface to a connected pair of SDLS users, one user at each end of the pipe.
.PP
.B SDL-PMOD
streams can have
.BR sdt (4)
and
.BR sl (4)
modules pushed (on
.I both
sides of the pipe) to provide a complete SS7 Signalling Link, each side of the pipe which can then
be linked under an
.BR mtp (4)
or
.BR m2ua (4)
driver using the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide Signalling Link services to the Level 3 protocol.
.PP
In this way, entire signalling networks can be emulated internal to a single host.
Quite complex configurations are possible.
(Complex configuraion is normally performed, as required, by the SS7 Configuration Daemon,
.BR ss7confd (8).)
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR sdt "(4) and " sl (4)
have been implemented as pushable modules to ease the development fo SS7 Signalling Link drivers for
various cards. All that is required is transparent access to a channel and the implementation of the
simplistic Channel Interface (CHI) or Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI) and it is possble to
push the 
.BR sdt "(4) and " sl (4)
modules over the data link to result in a fully conformant SS7 Signalling Link.  To facilitate
testing of the
.BR sdt "(4) and " sl (4)
pushable modules, both the SDL-PMOD and
.BR sdt-pmod (4)
modules were developed to permit transforming a STREAMS-based pipe into a connected signalling data
link or signalling data terminal.  This permits controlled testing of the pushable modules that make
up the remainder of the SS7 Signalling Link without using a real driver.
.PP
Therefore, one of the primary purposes of this module was for using STREAMS-based pipes to test the
other modules
.RB ( sl "(4) and " sdt (4))
pushed on the Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B SDL-PMOD
is implemented internally as a wrapper around a STREAMS-based pipe.
.PP
.B SDL-PMOD
does not implement a synchronous data link in the same manner as a real driver:
.B SDL-PMOD
simply passes data blocks through the STREAMS-based pipe.  To avoid usurping all of the system's
resources on passing idle bits throught the link, a throttling technique is used to limit the
bandwidth of the pipe to emulate a synchronous facility.  The throttling technique uses an interval
and a timer.  If the number of bytes passed during the interval exceeds the throttle rate, the pipe
is stalled and the time set.  The pipe is then restarted when the timer expires.  By proper choice
of the threshold and the timer, the effective bandwidth can be limited to an arbitrarily limit.  The
effective bandwidth can be selected by setting the bandwidth of the facility using SDL input-output
controls,
.BR sdli_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B SDL-PMOD
modules are not normally pushed or accessed directly by user-level programs.
The
.B SDL-PMOD
module is used directly by some test and monitoring programs.  The following steps are taken to
establish this pseudo-data link facility:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
Open a STREAMS-based pipe using the
.BR pipe (2s)
STREAMS library call.
.IP 2.
Push the
.B sdl-pmod
module on one side of the pipe.  It is not necessary to push
.BR pipemod (4)
as the
.B SDL-PMOD
module performs the necessary flush bit reversal.
.IP 3.
Set the rate (effective bandwidth) for the transmit (write) direction on each end of the facility
using the
.B SDL_IOCSCONFIG
input-output controls.  (The default is 64000 bits per second.)
.IP 4.
Push modules as necessary on both ends of the pipe.
.IP ""
For example, the Q.781 conformance test program
will push an
.BR sdt (4)
module on both ends of the pipe, both implementation under test and protocol tester, and the
.BR sl (4)
module on the implementation under test side of the pipe.  The Q.781 conformance test program then
uses the SDTI interface on the PT side to test the SLI interface and implementation on the IUT side.
.IP ""
For an emulated signalling link, both the
.BR sdt (4)
and
.BR sl (4)
modules would be pushed on both sides of the pipe.  Each end of the signalling link could then be
linked under a separate
.BR mtp (4)
signalling point.  This approach is used by the Q.782 test program for testing
.BR mtp (4)
in complex configurations.
.PP
All-in-all, for virtual signalling link configurations, the
.BR sdt-pmod (4)
module is a better choice than the
.B SDL-PMOD
module, because the
.BR sdt-pmod (4)
module does not need to throttle the link.
The major purpose of the
.B SDL-PMOD
module is for testing the
.BR sdt (4)
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B SDL-PMOD
module responds to Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
IO controls as interpreted for
.B SDL-PMOD
operation as described in
.BR sdli_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/lmi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdli.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.TP
.B streams-sdl_pmod.o
Implements the
.B SDL-PMOD
module named
.RI \(lq sdl-pmod \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR pipe (4),
.BR sl (4),
.BR sdt (4),
.BR sdt_pmod (4),
.BR sdli (7),
.BR sdli_ioctl (4),
.BR ss7confd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B SDL-PMOD
module conforms to the SDLI Specification, Revsion 0.8.2.
.PP
The
.B SDL-PMOD
module first appeared in
.B strss7
release 0.7.8.
.PP
In earlier releases of
.BR strss7 ,
the
.B SDL
module only provided AERM, SUERM and EIM functions over an
.B SDL
module that conformed roughly to the CDI sepcification (see
.BR cdi (7)).
Earlier release specifications and approaches are incompatible with the
current
.BR strss7
release 0.8.4 approach.  This only impacts driver development.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q702
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI

