'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sdl.4.man,v 0.9.2.5 2005/05/14 08:32:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/14 08:32:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH SDL 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B sdl
\- SS7 Q.702 Signalling Data Link
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdli.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " ch_stream  " = open(" ch_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" ch_stream ", " \fRI_PUSH\fI ", " \fR\*(lqsdl\*(rq\fI );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B SDL
is an implementation of the Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) Signalling Data Link
(SDL) as sepcified in ITU-T Recommendation Q.702.
.PP
.B SDL
is implemented as a pushable
.IR STREAMS (4)
module.  The
.B SDL
module can be pushed over streams conforming to the Channel Interface (CHI) as
described in
.BR chi (7).
The
.B SDL
module provides raw channel access to the bit stream on a 56kbps, 64kbps,
1.544 Mbps, or 2.048 Mbps channel provided by the
.BR chi (7)
stream below it.  The upper interface provided by the
.BR SDL
moduleis the Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI) as described in
.BR sdli (7).
.PP
.B SDL
streams can have
.BR sdt (4)
and
.BR sl (4)
modules pushed to provide a complete SS7 Signalling Link that can then be
linked under an
.BR mtp (4)
or
.BR m2ua (4)
driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide signalling link services to the Level 3 protocol.  This is normally
performed, as required, by the SS7 Configuration Daemon,
.BR ss7confd (8).
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B SDL
modules are not normally pushed or accessed directly by user-level programs.
The
.B SDL
module is used directly by some test and monitoring programs.
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B SDL
responds to Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
IO controls as interpreted for
.B SDL
operation as described in
.BR sdli_ioctl (4).
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sdli.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h> .
.SH MODULES
.PP
.RI streams- sdl .o
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR chi (7),
.BR sdt (4),
.BR sl (4),
.BR sdli (7),
.BR sdli_ioctl (4),
.BR ss7confd (8).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B SDL
module conforms to the SDLI Specification, Revsion 0.8.2.
.PP
The
.B SDL
module first appeared in
.B strss7
release 0.7.8.
.PP
In earlier release of
.BR strss7 ,
the
.B SDL
module only provided direct CDI-like (see
.BR cdi (7))
interface and did not provide access to the raw channel.  This was seen as a
failing when raw channel devices such as the
.BR x100p (4)
and
.BR x400p (4)
drivers were developed.  Earlier release specifications and approaches are
incompatible with the current
.BR strss7
release 0.8.4 approach.  This only impacts driver development.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q702
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
