'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sdl_ch.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-30 14:05:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-30 14:05:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sdl_ch.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-30 14:05:05  brian
.\" - updates to pass make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-04-28 07:39:45  brian
.\" - added missing manpages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SDL_CH 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sdl_ch
\- Signalling Data Link (SDL) Channel (CH) Module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdli.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This is the
.B SDL-CH
STREAMS pushable module.  Its purpose is to convert from a general purpose
Channel Interface (CHI) Stream to an SS7-specific Signalling Data Link (SDL)
Stream.  For the most part this is a one-to-one conversion as both interfaces
are an abstraction of the same thing (a communications channel).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
This is maybe not the most efficient way of going about doing things.  The
conversion step might be costly (but then again it might not: in the main data
flow it could be as little as the overhead of one function call to the module's
put procedure).
.PP
Another more direct approach is to have an SDT module that pushes directly over
a CH Stream instead of over an SDL Stream.  Nevertheless, this module can be
useful for testing.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B SDL-CH
modules are not normally pushed or accessed directly by user-level programs.
The
.B SDL-CH
module is used directly by some test and monitoring programs.  The following
steps are taken to establish this SDL facility:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
Open a CH Stream using the
.BR open (2s)
system call.
.IP 2.
Push the SDL-CH module using the
.BR I_PUSH (7)
STREAMS IO control.
.IP 3.
Attach the SDL Stream using the
.BR LMI_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP 4.
Enable the SDL Stream using the
.BR LMI_ENABLE_REQ (7),
.BR SDL_DAEDR_START_REQ (7)
and
.BR SDL_DAEDT_START_REQ (7)
primitives.
.IP 5.
Exchange data using the
.BR SDL_DAEDT_TRANSMISSION_REQ (7)
and
.BR SDL_DAEDR_RECEIVED_BITS_IND (7)
primitives.
.IP 6.
Disable the SDL Stream using the
.BR LMI_DISABLE_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP 7.
Detach the SDL Stream using the
.BR LMI_DETACH_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP 8.
Pop the SDL-CH module using the
.BR I_POP (7)
STREAMS IO control.
.IP 9.
Close the stream using the
.BR close (2s)
system call.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B SDL-CH
module responses to Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
IO controls as interpreted for
.B SDL
operation as described in
.BR sdli_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.RB < ss7/lmi.h >,
.RB < ss7/lmi_ioctl.h >,
.RB < ss7/sdli >,
.RB < ss7/sdli_ioctl.h >.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.TP
.B streams-sdl_ch.o
Implements the
.B SDL-CH
module named
.RI \(lq sdl-ch \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR sdl (4),
.BR ch (4),
.BR sdli (7),
.BR sdli_ioctl (4),
.BR ss7confd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B SDL-CH
module conforms to the SDLI Specifiction, Revision 0.8.2.
.[
sdli
.]
.PP
The
.B SDL-CH
module first appeared publicly in the
.B @PACKAGE@
release 0.9a.8.
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
SS7 Stack.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI

