'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sdt.4.man,v 0.9.2.5 2005/05/14 08:32:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/14 08:32:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH SDT 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sdt
\- SS7 Q.702 Signalling Data Terminal
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdti.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " ch_stream " = open(" ch_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" ch_stream ", " \fRI_PUSH\fI ", " \fR\*(lqsdl\*(rq\fI );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" ch_stream ", " \fRI_PUSH\fI ", " \fR\*(lqsdt\*(rq\fI );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B SDT
is an implementation of the Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) Signalling Terminal
(SDT) as specified in ITU-T Recommendation Q.702.
.PP
.B SDT
is implemented as a pushable
.IR STREAMS (4)
module.  The
.B SDT
module can be pushed over streams conforming to the Signalling Data Link
Interface (SDLI) as described in
.BR sdli (7),
such as channels upon which the
.BR sdl (4)
module has been pushed.
The
.B SDT
module provides data terminal access to the bit stream from the signalling
data link provided by the
.BR sdli (7)
stream below it, by performing SS7 HDLC on the raw bit stream.  The
.B SDT
also provides AERM, SUERM and EIM functions directly.  The upper interface
provided by the
.B SDT
module is the Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI) as decribed in
.BR sdti (7).
.PP
.B SDT
streams can have
.BR sl (4)
modules pushed to provide a complete SS7 Signalling Link that can then be
linked under an
.BR mtp (4)
or
.BR m2ua (4)
driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide signalling link services to the Level 3 protocol.  This is normally
performed, as required, by the SS7 Configuration Daemon,
.BR ss7confd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B SDT
has been implemented as a pushable module to ease the development of SS7
Signalling Link drivers for various cards.  All that is required is for the
card to provide a Channel Interface (CHI),
.BR chi (7),
and push the
.BR sdl (4),
.BR sdt (4)
and
.BR sl (4)
modules to provide a complete and compliant SS7 Signalling Link.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B SDT
is implemented internally as a soft-HDLC with SS7 considerations using
host-table lookups.  While this is fairly efficient, devices that are capable
of performing this function in hardware should provide the Signalling Data
Terminal Interface (SDTI),
.BR sdti (7),
directly.  An example of a device that does include HLDC is the
.BR x400p (4)
driver.  An example of one that does, is the
.BR acb56 (4)
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B SDT
modules are not normally pushed or accessed directly by user-level programs.
The
.BR SDT
module is used directly by some test and monitoring programs.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B SDT
module responds to Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
IO controls as interpreted for
.B SDT
operation as described in
.BR sdti_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sdti.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.RI streams- sdt .o
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR chi (7),
.BR sdl (4),
.BR sl (4),
.BR sdti (7),
.BR sdti_ioctl (4),
.BR ss7confd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B SDT
module conforms to the SDTI Specification, Revsion 0.8.2.
.PP
The
.B SDT
module first appeared in
.B strss7
release 0.7.8.
.PP
In earlier releases of
.BR strss7 ,
the
.B SDT
module only provided AERM, SUERM and EIM functions over an
.B SDL
module that conformed roughly to the CDI sepcification (see
.BR cdi (7)).
Earlier release specifications and approaches are incompatible with the
current
.BR strss7
release 0.8.4 approach.  This only impacts driver development.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q702
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
