'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sdt_cd.4.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/08/12 15:20:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/08/12 15:20:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sdt_cd.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/08/12 15:20:11  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SDT_CD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sdt-cd, sdt_cd
\- SS7 Q.702 Signalling Terminal Module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdti.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " cd_stream " = open(" cd_device ", " flags );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" cd_stream ", " \fRI_PUSH\fI ", " \fR\*(lqsdt-cd\*(rq\fI );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B SDT-CD
is an implementation fo the Signalling System No. 7 (SS7)
.[
q700
.]
Signalling Terminal (SDT) as specified in ITU-T Recommendation Q.702.
.[
q702
.]
.PP
.B SDT-CD
is implemented as a pushable
.IR STREAMS (4)
module.  The
.B SDT-CD
module can be pushed over Streams conforming to the Communication Device
Interface (CDI)
.[
cdi revision 0.9.2
.]
as described in
.BR cdi (7).
The
.B SDT-CD
module provides data terminal access to the HDLC frames from the
communications device provided by the
.BR cd_hdlc (4)
or
.BR cd_daed (4)
Stream below it.  The
.B SDT-CD
provides AERM, SUERM and EIM functions indirectly.  The upper interface
provided by the
.B SDT-CD
module is the Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI)
.[
sdti
.]
as described in
.BR sdti (7).
.PP
.B SDT-CD
Streams, as any other SDTI Stream, can have
.BR sl (4)
modules pushed to provide a complete SS7 Signalling Link
.[
q703
.]
that can then be linked under the
.BR sl-mux (4)
link multiplexing driver for subsequent use by an
.BR mtp (4),
or
.BR m2ua (4)
driver using the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide signalling link services to the Level 3 protocol.  This is normally
performed, as required, by the SS7 Confirmation Daemon,
.BR ss7confd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B SDT-CD
has been implemented as a pushable module to ease the development of SS7
Signalling Link drivers for various cards that already have raw HDLC support
in the Linux kernel.  The
.BR cd (4)
driver can be used to open a raw HDLC device that has an implementation within
the Linux kernel, and the
.BR SDT-CD
module is pushed to transform the
.B CD_HDLC
stream into an SS7 Signalling Terminal, and then push the
.BR sl (4)
module to provide a complete and compliant SS7 Signalling Link.
.PP
.B SDT-CD
implements the AERM/SUERM/EIM functions missing from the raw HDLC Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B SDT-CD
modules are not normally pushed or acessed directly by user-level programs.
The
.B SDT-CD
module is used directly by some test and monitoring programs.  The
.B SDT-CD
module is not normally pushed by the configuration daemon either, but forms
part of an
.BR autopush (8)
specification for clone minor devices on the
.BR cd (4)
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B SDT-CD
module responds to Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
input-output controls as interpreted for
.BR sdti (7)
operation as described in
.BR sdti_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sdti.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.RI streams- sdt-cd .o
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR cdi (7),
.BR cd (4),
.BR sl (4),
.BR sdti (7),
.BR sdti_ioctl (4),
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR autopush (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B SDT-CD
module conforms to the SDTI Specification, Revision 0.9.2.
.[
sdti revision 0.9.2
.]
.PP
The
.B SDT-CD
module first appeared in
.BR strss7 (4)
release 0.9.2.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
