'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sl.4.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH SL 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B sl
\- SS7 Q.703 Signalling Link
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sli.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sli_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" sdt_stream ", " \fRI_PUSH\fI ", " \fR\*(lqsl\*(rq\fI );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B SL
is an implementation of the Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) Signalling Link (SL)
as specified in ITU-T Recommendation Q.703.
.PP
.B SL
is implemented as a pushable
.IR STREAMS (4)
module.  The
.B SL
module can be pushed over streams conforming to the Signalling Data Terminal
Interface (SDTI) as described in
.BR sdti (7),
such as channels upon which the
.BR sdt (4)
module has been pushed.  The
.B SL
provides signalling link access to a signalling terminal provided by the
.BR sdti (7)
stream below it, by performing the MTP Level 2 state machine functions.
The upper interface provided by the
.B SL
module is the Signalling Link Interface (SLI) as described in
.BR sli (7).
.PP
.B SL
streams provide a complete signalling link that can be linked under a
.BR mtp (4)
or
.BR m2ua (4)
driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide signalling link services to the Level 3 protocol.  This is normally
performed, as required, by the SS7 Configuraiton Daemon,
.BR ss7confd (8).
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B SL
has ben implemented as a pushable module to ease the development of SS7
Signalling Link drivers for various cards.  All that is required is for the card
to provide a Channel Interface (CHI),
.BR chi (7),
Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI),
.BR sdli (7),
or Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI),
.BR sdti (7),
and push the appropriate modules such as
.BR sdl (4),
.BR sdt (4),
and
.BR sl (4),
to provide a complete and compliant SS7 Signalling Link.
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B SL
modules are not normally pushed or access directly by user-level programs.
The
.B SL
module is used directly by some test and monitoring programs.
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B SL
module responds to Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
IO controls as interpreted for
.BR SL
operation as described in
.BR sli_ioctl (4).
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sli.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sli_ioctl.h> .
.SH MODULES
.PP
.RI streams- sl .o
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR sli (4),
.BR sli_ioctl (4),
.BR chi (7),
.BR sdt (4),
.BR sdti (7),
.BR ss7confd (8).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B SL
module conforms to the SLI Specification, Revision 0.8.2.
.PP
The
.B SL
module first appeared in
.B strss7
release 0.7.6.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q703
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
