'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sm_mod.4.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-29 07:10:19 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:19 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sm_mod.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-29 07:10:19  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/04/05 09:43:04  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SM_MOD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Modules"
.SH NAME
.B sm_mod
\- SS7 Q.703 Signalling Link MTP Module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/mtpi.h>
.HP
.BI "int " sl_stream " = open(" sl_device ", " flags );
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" sl_stream ", " \fRI_PUSH\fI ", " \fR\*(lqsm_mod\*(rq\fI );
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B SM_MOD
is a simplistic implementation of the Signalling System no. 7 (SS7) Message
Transfer Part (MTP) as specified in
.I ITU-T Recommendation Q.704
.[
q704
.]
and
.IR "ANSI T1.111.4" .
.[
t1.111
.]
.B SM_MOD
provides reliable sequenced or unsequenced delivery of packages over a
connectionless transport between two
.B MTP
endpoints.
.B SM_MOD
provides strong assurances that the data arrives in order on a Stream, if
requested, and maintains sequencing of packages in the face of most network
failures.  It generates and checks a per-packet checksum to catch transmission
errors.
.B MTP
routing routes around link and node failures in the
.BR SS7 (4)
network.
.PP
.B SM_MOD
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
pushable module.
The module is pushed over a
.BR sl (4)
Stream providing the
.BR sli (7)
interface using the
.I I_PUSH
command of
.BR streamio (7).
Once pushed, the module must be configured using
.BR mtp_ioctl (4),
and provides a Stream providing the
.B MTP
protocol service interface using the M-primitives of the Message Transfer Part
Interface described in
.BR mtpi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
A Stream with the
.B SM_MOD
module pushed supports a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
system calls on the
.IR sl_stream .
These management controls are documented in
.BR mtp_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR sl (4),
.BR mtpi (7),
.BR mtp_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/mtpi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mtpi_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The MTP interface is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
SS7 stack.
.B SM_MOD
supports Version 2 of the interface.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
