'\" tr
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sockmod.4,v 0.9 2004/01/17 07:59:24 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corp. <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:24 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH SOCKMOD 4 "$Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:24 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux STREAMS Devices"
.SH NAME
.B sockmod
\- a STREAMS socket compatability module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socksys.h>
.HP 8
.BI "" t " = open(" /dev/tcp , 0 );
.HP 8
.BI ioctl( t , I_PUSH , \*(lqsockmod\*(rq );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.PP
.B sockmod
is a socket library compatibility module for the STREAMS Transport Provider
Interface
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7).
It translates a set of
.B sockmod
ioctls into TLI
.[
TLI
.]
primitives.  These
.B sockmod
ioctls are intended to be used by a library level Sockets compatibility
library.
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.SS SI_GETUDATA
.PP
.\"('I' 101)
.SS SI_SHUTDOWN
.PP
.\"('I' 102)
.SS SI_LISTEN
.PP
.\"('I' 103)
.SS SI_SETMYNAME
.PP
.\"('I' 104)
.SS SI_SETPEERNAME
.PP
.\"('I' 105)
.SS SI_GETINTRANSIT
.PP
.\"('I' 106)
.SS SI_TCL_LINK
.PP
.\"('I' 107)
.SS SI_TCL_UNLINK
.PP
.\"('I' 108)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR socksys (4),
.BR timod (4).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.[
svr42
.]
.[
svr4
.]
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TA
