'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sscop.4.man,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-29 07:10:19 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:19 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sscop.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-04-29 07:10:19  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:43:05  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SSCOP 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B sscop
\- Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netinet/sscop.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/saal_sscop.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_sscop.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/tpi_sscop.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/xti_sccop.h>
.HP
.BI "int " sscop_stream " = open(" sscop_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " sscop_xtistr " = t_open(" sscop_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " sscop_socket " = socket(" \fRPF_INET\fI ", " \fRSOCK_SEQPACKET\fI ", " IPPROTO_SSCOP );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.PP
.B SSCOP
is an implementation of ITU-T Recommendation Q.2111
.RB ( SSCOP-MCE )
as defined in Q.2110
.[
q2110
.]
.[
t1.637
.]
and Q.2111.
.[
q2111
.]
.B SSCOP
provides reliable delivery of ordered or unordered packets over a full duplex
connection between two streams on top of
.BR ip (4).
.B SSCOP
can guarantee that the data arrives in order, if requested, and retransmits
lost packets.  It generates and checks a per-packet checksum to catch
transmission errors.
.B SSCOP-MCE
uses the services of the Internet Protocol,
.BR ip (4),
to transfer packets.
.PP
.B SSCOP
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver for
.BR LiS (9).
.[
LiS
.]
.BR ip (4)
streams are linked under the
.B SSCOP
multiplexing driver using
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide network services to
.BR SSCOP .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR sscop_ioctl (4).
.PP
.B SSCOP
provides three stream types.  To select one of the stream types,
.I sscop_device
can be one of the following:
.TP
.IR /dev/sscop " or " /dev/inet/sscop
This device provides the
.B SSCOP
protocol service interface using the T-primitives of the Transport Provider
Interface,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
used for the Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol, as described in
.BR tpi_sccop (7).
The
.BR tpi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR xnet (3)
or
.BR xti (3)
library and provides
.B SSCOP
interface using XTI
.[
XTI
.]
.[
XNS
.]
as described in
.BR xti_sscop (3).
.TP
.I /dev/sscop-npi
This device provides
.B SSCOP
protocol service interface using the N-primitive of the Network Provider
Interface,
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
used for the Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol, as described in
.BR npi_sscop (7).
This stream provides connection-oriented NPI services.
.TP
.I /dev/sscop-saal
This device provides the
.B SSCOP
protocol services interface using the AAL-primitives of the Service Specific
Connection Oriented Protocol Interface described in
.BR sscopi (7).
.PP
.B SSCOP
provides one socket type for use by the
.BR sockets (3)
library
.BR socket (7)
calls.
.B SSCOP
provides sockets in the protocol family
.B PF_INET
using the protocol number
.BR IPPROTO_SSCOP .
The
.I socket_type
argument can be one of the following:
.TP
.B SOCK_SEQPACKET
Provides a connection-oriented reliable packet services with regard to order.
Message boundaries are preserved.  This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/inet/sscop
transport service provider.
.PP
The following entries in
.B /etc/protosw
provides the information for
.BR socksys (4)
to use the devices:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lllllll.
PF_INET:SOCK_SEQPACKET:IPPROTO_SSCOP:/dev/sscop:tpi:cots_ord
.TE
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR socksys "(4) and " protosw (5).
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.PP
All interfaces upport a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl "(2) and " streamio (7)
.I I_STR
system calls on the
.IR sscop_stream ", " sscop_xtistr " or " sscop_socket .
These management controls are documented in
.BR sscop_ioctl (4).
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.PP
.B SSCOP
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
implementation using
.BR LiS (9),
.[
LiS
.]
and supports sockets only with the
.BR socksys (4)
driver.
.SH FILES
.PP
.PP
.BR <netinet/sscop.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_sscop.h> ,
.BR <sys/saal.h> ,
.BR <sys/saal_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/saal_sscop.h> ,
.BR <sys/socket.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_sscop.h> ,
.BR <xti.h> ,
.BR <xti_ip.h> ,
.BR <xti_sscop.h> .
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.PP
.IR /dev/sscop ", " /dev/inet/sscop ", " /dev/sscop-npi ", " /dev/sscop-saal .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.PP
.BR INET (4),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR ip (4),
.BR npi (7),
.BR npi_ip (7),
.BR npi_sscop (7),
.BR socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR sockmod (4),
.BR socksys (4),
.BR sscop (7),
.BR sscop_ioctl (4),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR STREAMS (4),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR tpi_ip (7),
.BR tpi_sscop (7),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_ip (3),
.BR xti_sscop (3).
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
