'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sua.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/04/17 21:38:39 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 21:38:39 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH SUA 4 "$Date: 2004/04/17 21:38:39 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.B SUA
\- SS7 SCCP User Adaptation Layer (SUA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.PP
.B #include <ss7/sccpi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sccpi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sua_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " sua_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " sua_xtistr " = t_open(" device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " sua_socket " = socket(" \fRPF_SS7\fI ", " socket_type ", " \fRSS7PROTO_SUA\fI );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.PP
.B SUA
is an implementation of the SS7 SCCP User Adaptation Layer (SUA) defined in
draft-ietf-sigtran-sua-14.txt.
.B SUA
provides a back haul of the services of the
.BR sccp (4)
over an IP network using Stream Control Transmission Protocol,
.BR sctp (4),
as defined in RFC 2960.
.[
RFC 2960
.]
In addition it provides a building block of redundant and distributed SS7
systems. (See
.IR \*(lqNOTICES\*(rq ,
below.)
.PP
.B SUA
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR sccp (4)
or
.BR sctp (4)
streams are linked under the
.B SUA
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide transport or direct SCCP services to
.BR SUA .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR sua_ioctl (4).
.PP
.B SUA
provides the following stream types that are directly compatible with the
stream types provided by
.BR sccp (4).
To select one of these stream types,
.I device
can be one of the following:
.TP
.I /dev/sua
This device provides the
.B SCCP
protocol service interface using the N-primitives of the Signalling Connection
Control Part Interface described in
.BR sccpi (7).
This interface is suitable for use with other SS7 modules and drivers.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.IR /dev/sua-npi-cl ", " /dev/sua-npi-co
This device provides the
.B SCCP
protocol service interface using the N-primitives of the Network Provider
Interface,
.[
NPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
used for the Signalling Connection Control Part as described in
.BR sccp_npi (7).
The
.BR npi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR sockets (3)
library and provides the
.B SCCP
interface using sockets as described in
.BR sccp_socket (7).
.sp
.I /dev/sua-npi-cl
provides a connectionless
.B N_CLNS
network service provider supporting protocol classes 0 and 1;
.I /dev/sua-npi-co
provides a connection oriented
.B N_CONS
newtork service provider supporting protocol classes 2 and 3.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.IR /dev/sua-tpi-cl ", " /dev/sua-tpi-co
This device provides the
.B SCCP
protocol service interface using the T-primitives of the Transport Provider
Interface,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
used for the Signalling Connection Control Part as described in
.BR sccp_tpi (7).
The
.BR tpi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is a suitable
.I device
for use with
the
.BR xnet (3)
or
.BR xti (3)
library
.BR t_open (3)
call and provides the
.BR SCCP
interface  using XTI
.[
XTI
.]
.[
XNS
.]
as described int
.BR xti_sccp (3).
.sp
.I /dev/sua-tpi-cl
provides a connectionless
.B T_CLTS
transport service provider supporting protocol classes 0 and 1;
.I /dev/sua-tpi-co
provides a connection oriented
.B T_COTS
transport service provider supporting protocol classes 2 and 3.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B SUA
provides three socket types by use of the
.BR sockets (3)
library
.BR socket (3)
call.
.B SUA
provides sockets in the protocol family
.B PF_SS7
using the protocol number
.BR SS7PROTO_SUA .
The
.I socket_type
argument can be one of the following:
.TP
.B SOCK_DGRAM
Provides a connection-less datagram services without regard to order.  This is
an
.B SCCP
protocol class 0 service provider.
This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/sua-tpi-cl
transport service provider.
.TP
.B SOCK_RDM
Provides a connection-less reliable datagram service without regard to order.
This is an
.B SCCP
protocol class 1 service provider.
This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/sua-tpi-cl
transport service provider.
.TP
.B SOCK_SEQPACKET
Provides a connection-oriented reliable datagram service with or without
receipt confirmation and flow control.  This is an
.B SCCP
protocol class 2 or 3 service provider.
This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/sua-tpi-co
transport service provider.
.\"
.PP
The following entries in /etc/protosw provides the information necessary for
.BR socksys (4)
to use these devices:
.\"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
llllll.
PF_SS7:SOCK_DGRAM:SS7PROTO_SUA:/dev/sua-tpi-cl:tpi:clts
PF_SS7:SOCK_RDM:SS7PROTO_SUA:/dev/sua-tpi-cl:tpi:clts
PF_SS7:SOCK_SEQPACKET:SS7PROTO_SUA:/dev/sua-tpi-cl:tpi:cots
.TE
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR protosw (5).
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.PP
.B SUA
can be configured on a system as a drop in transparent replacement for
.BR sccp (4).
In such a configuration, users opening streams or sockets as defined in
.BR sccp (4)
will be opening
.B sua
streams and sockets, but will be unaware of the difference.  In
.B OpenSS7
.B sua
is used as the primary mechanism of redundnacy and distribution and,
when properly configured (see
.BR sua (8)),
.B sua
functions transparently to the SCCP-User.
.PP
Also, opening and binding an
.B sua
stream or socket may result in the opening and binding of an
.BR sccp (4)
stream on the local or remote host in direct support of the local SCCP-User.
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
system calls on the
.IR sua_stream ", " sua_xtistr " or " sua_socket
file descriptor or socket.
These management controls are documented in
.BR sua_ioctl (4).
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.PP
.IR /dev/sua ,
.IR /dev/sua-npi-cl ,
.IR /dev/sua-npi-co ,
.IR /dev/sua-tpi-cl ,
.IR /dev/sua-tpi-co .
.SH FILES
.PP
.PP
.BR <ss7/sccpi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sua_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_ss7.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_mtp.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_sccp.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi.h.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_ss7.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_mtp.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_sccp.h> ,
.BR <xti.h> ,
.BR <xti_sccp.h> ,
.BR <sys/socket.h> .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.PP
.BR ss7 (8),
.BR sccpi (7),
.BR sccp_npi (7),
.BR sccp_tpi (7),
.BR xti_sccp (3),
.BR sccp_socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR sua_ioctl (4).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
.PP
The
.B SUA
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
stack.
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
sua-15
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
