'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: tc-mod.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-30 14:05:05 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-30 14:05:05 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: tc-mod.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-30 14:05:05  brian
.\" - updates to pass make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-04-28 07:39:45  brian
.\" - added missing manpages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TC-MOD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B tc-mod
\- Transaction Component (TC) Module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/tci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/tci_ioctl.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B TC-MOD
is a simplified Transaction Component (TC) module for TCAP
.[
ansi t1.114
.]
.[
q771
.]
.[
q772
.]
.[
q773
.]
.[
q774
.]
.[
q775
.]
.[
etsi ets 300 134
.]
that can be pusehd
as a pushable STREAMS module over a TCAP TR Stream.  Either the TCAP TR Stream
can be bound before pushing or after.  This is the simple case where all
transactions are delivered to the same Stream.  When the TC User is bound to an
application context, only transactions for that application context will be
delivered to the TC User.  Dialogues for application contexts other than the
bound context will be rejected.  When the TC User is wildcard bound, all
transactions on the TR Stream will be delivered to the TC User.
.PP
In the more complex cases, where a TC-MUX is used, a TR Provider Stream is
linked under the TC-MUX and then TC User Streams are opened and bound to
different Application Contexts.  This allows different Application Contexts for
the same SCCP Subsystem to be delievered to the different TC User Streams.
.PP
This
.B TC-MOD
module presents a Transaction Component Interface (TCI) to its user.  To
present a Transaction Interface (TRI) instead, do not push the TC-MOD module
and use the TR-MOD module directly instead.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B TC-MOD
modules are not normally pushed or accessed directly by user-level programs.
The
.B TC-MOD
module is used directly by some test and monitoring programs.  The following
steps are taken to establish this minimal TC facility:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
Open a TR Stream using the
.BR open (2s)
system call.
.IP 2.
Push the TC-MOD module using the
.BR I_PUSH (7)
STREAMS IO control.
.IP 3.
Bind the TC Stream using the
.BR TC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP 4.
Exchange data on the TC Stream using, for example, the
.BR TC_UNI_REQ (7)
and
.BR TC_UNI_IND (7)
primitives.
.IP 5.
Unbind the TC Stream using the
.BR TC_UNBIND_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP 6.
Pop the TC-MOD mdoule using the
.BR I_POP (7)
STREAMS IO control.
.IP 7.
Close the TR Stream using the
.BR close (2s)
system call.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The
.B TC-MOD
module responds to Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
IO controls as interprested for
.B TC
operation as described in
.BR tci_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.RB < ss7/tci >,
.RB < ss7/tci_sccp.h >.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.TP
.B streams-tc_mod.o
Implements the
.B TC-MOD
module named
.RI \(lq tc-mod \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR sccp (4),
.BR tcap (4),
.BR tci (7),
.BR tci_ioctl (4),
.BR ss7confd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
.PP
The
.B TC-MOD
module conforms to the TCI Specification, Revision 0.9.2.
.[
tci
.]
.PP
The TC-MOD
module first appeared publicly in the
.B @PACKAGE@
release 0.9a.8.
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
SS7 Stack.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI

