'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: tcap.4.man,v 0.9.2.7 2007/08/03 13:34:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/08/03 13:34:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: tcap.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2007/08/03 13:34:50  brian
.\" - manual updates, put ss7 modules in public release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:43:05  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TCAP 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B TCAP
\- SS7 Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/tcapi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/tcapi_ioctl.h>
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " tcap_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B #include <xti_tcap.h>
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " tcap_xtistr " = t_open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netss7/tcap.h>
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " tcap_socket " = socket(" \fRPF_SS7\fI ", " socket_type ", " \fRSS7PROTO_TCAP\fI );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B TCAP
is an implementation of the Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) Transaction
Capabilities Application Part (TCAP) defined in ITU-T Recommendation Q.771 to
Q.775,
.[
q771
.]
.[
q772
.]
.[
q773
.]
.[
q774
.]
.[
q775
.]
ETSI TCAP Version 1 and 2,
.[
tcapv1
.]
.[
tcapv2
.]
and
ANSI T1.114.
.[
t1.114
.]
.B TCAP
provides reliable sequenced or unsequenced delivery of packets over a
connectionless transport between two
.B TCAP
endpoints.
.B TCAP
provides stong assurances that the data arrives in order on a Stream, if
requested, and maintains sequencing of packets in the face of most network
failures.
.B TCAP
is the roughly the equivalent of a remote procedure call for SS7 and is based
closely on the Remote Operations Service Execution (ROSE) X.219.
.[
x.219
.]
Unlike ROSE, which uses a connection-mode transport provider,
.B TCAP
uses the connectionless mode network services of the Signalling Connection
Control Part (see
.BR sccp (4))
or SCCP User Adaptation Layer (see
.BR sua (4))
to transfer packets.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B TCAP
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR sccp "(4), " sua (4)
or other compatible network provider Streams are bound and linked under the
.B TCAP
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7).
These linked Streams provide network services to
.BR TCAP .
Once linked, the Streams must be configured using
.BR tcap_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SS "Device Names"
.PP
.B TCAP
provides the following Stream types.  To select one of these Stream types,
.I device
can be one of the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.IR /dev/tcap ", " /dev/tcap-tci ", " /dev/tcap-tri
These devices provide the
.B TCAP 
protocol services interface using the TC-primitives of the Transaction
Component Interface (TCI)
.[
tci revision 0.9.2
.]
described in
.BR tci (7),
or using the TR-primtiive of the Transaction Interface (TRI)
.[
tri revision 0.9.2
.]
described in
.BR tri (7).
The service interfaces provided on a Stream opening these devices is suitable
for use with other SS7 modules and drivers.
.RS
.HP
.IR /dev/tcap-tci
provides the
.B TCAP 
protocol services interface using the TC-primitives of the Transaction
Component Interface (TCI)
.[
tci revision 0.9.2
.]
described in
.BR tci (7).
.HP
.IR /dev/tcap-tri
provides the
.B TCAP 
protocol services interface using the TR-primitives of the Transaction
Interface (TRI)
.[
tri revision 0.9.2
.]
described in
.BR tri (7).
.RE
.\"
.\"
.TP
.IR /dev/tcap-tpi-cl ", " /dev/tcap-tpi-co
These device provides the
.B TCAP
protocol service interface using the T-primitives of the Transport Provider
Interface (TPI)
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
described in
.BR tpi "(7) and " tpi_tcap (7).
The service interface provided on a Stream opening this device is suitable for
use with the
.BR xnet (3)
or
.BR xti (3)
library
.BR t_open (3)
call and provides the
.B TCAP
interface using XTI as described in
.BR xti_tcap (3).
.\"
.\"
.RS
.HP
.I /dev/tcap-tpi-co
provides a connection-oriented
.B T_COTS
transport service provider supporting operations classes 1, 2 and 3;
.I /dev/tcap-tpi-cl
provides a connectionless
.B T_CLTS
transport service provider supporting operations class 4.
.HP
.I /dev/tcap-tpi-cl
provides a connectionless
.B T_CLTS
transport service provider supporting operation class 1;
.I /dev/tcap-tpi-co
provides a connection-oriented
.B T_COTS
transport service provider supporting operation class 2, 3 and 4.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SS "Socket Types"
.PP
.B TCAP
provides two socket types used by the
.BR sockets (3)
library
.BR socket (3)
call.
.B TCAP
provides sockets in the protocol family
.B PF_SS7
using the protocol number
.BR SS7PROTO_TCAP .
The
.I socket_type
argument can be one of the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B SOCK_DGRAM
Provides a connectionless datagram service without regard to order.  This is a
.B TCAP
operations class 4 service provider.
This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/tcap-tpi-cl
transport service providers supporting operations class 4.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B SOCK_SEQPACKET
Provides a connection oriented reliable packet service with or without
receipt confirmation and flow control.  This is a
.B TCAP
operation class 1, 2 or 3 service provider.
This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/tcap-tpi-co
transport service provider supporting operations class 1, 2 or 3.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following entries in /etc/protosw provides the information necesary for
.BR socksys (4)
to use these devices:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
llllll.
\fCPF_SS7:SOCK_RDM:SS7PROTO_TCAP:/dev/tcap-tpi-cl:tpi:clts
\fCPF_SS7:SOCK_SEQPACKET:SS7PROTO_TCAP:/dev/tcap-tpi-co:tpi:cots
.TE
.\"
.\"
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR socksys (4)
and
.BR protosw (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B SCCP
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver provides a number of device names that can be opened by user programs with the
.BR open (2s)
system call (see above under
.RI \(lq "Device Names" \(rq).
The
.BR open (2s)
system call returns a file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
that can be used ot make other system calls on the open
.B TCAP
Stream.
Each
.B TCAP
Stream provides a service primitive interface that implements the TCAP protocol 
The ssytem call,
.BR putpmsg (2s),
can be called to issue service primitives on the interface;
.BR getpmsg (2s),
to receive primitives.
.BR ioctl (2s)
as described in
.BR streamio (7)
and
.BR mtp_ioctl (7)
can be used to manage the Stream and the TCAP provider.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
When the TCAP driver is configured, SCCP Streams are opened and linked under
the multiplexing driver.  Each SCCP Stream represents a connection between a
local TCAP Entity and remote peer TCAP Entities.  Input-output controls are
used to configure each lower multiplex Stream.  SCCP Streams must be bound for
connectionless operation before being linked, however, until they are
configured, incoming transactions will be aborted.
.PP
Once configured, TCAP User Streams can be opened on the upper multiplex.
These TCAP User Streams are not associated with a TCAP Entity until they are
bound.  When the
.BR TC_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive is issued, the address contained in the request is a TCAP address.
A TCAP address consists of an SCCP address or TCAP Entity identifier, and an
Application Context.  This information is sufficient for the TCAP driver to
determine the TCAP Entity with which to associate the TCAP User Stream and to
bind the TCAP User to an Application Context.
.PP
Configuration is performed using the TCAP driver configuration utility.  This
utility reads a configuration file used to define the objects necessary for
configuration.  The configuration file contains entries that define the SCCP
provider and TCAP Entity relationships as follows:
.nf
.sp
.RI < teid "> <" variant "> <" version "> <" options "> <" sap ">
.fi
.TP
.I teid
An integer number, assigned locally, from 1 to 31, identifying the TCAP
entity, or a Object Identifier (OID) used to globally identify the the TCAP
entity application.  A global OID is the portion of the Application Context
that identifies the overall Application, in numbers and dots notation.  When
both the integer and OID TCAP Entity identifiers are specified, they are
separated by a comma
.RB ( , )
with no intervening whitespace.
.TP
.I variant
Specifies the variant of the TCAP protocol supported by the TCAP Entity.
The protocol variant can be a single dash
.RB ( - ),
specifying that the default should be used, or one of the following text
strings:
.RS
.TP
.B itut
ITU-T protocol variant: ITU-T recommendation Q.771 to Q.775.
.[
q771
.]
.[
q772
.]
.[
q773
.]
.[
q774
.]
.[
q775
.]
.PD 0
.TP
.B etsi
ETSI protocol variant: TCAP Version 1 or 2.
.[
tcapv1
.]
.[
tcapv2
.]
.TP
.B ansi
ANSI protocol variant: ANSI T1.114.
.[
t1.114
.]
.TP
.B jttc
TTC protocol variant: JQ.771 to JQ.775.
.TP
.B chin
Chinese protocol variant.
.TP
.B sing
Singapore protocol variant.
.TP
.B span
Spain protocol variant.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I version
Specifies the version of the TCAP protocol supported by the TCAP Entity.  The
protocol version can be a single dash
.RB ( - ),
specifying that the default should be used, or a decimal number indicating the
year of the specification.
.TP
.I options
Specifies the options for the TCAP protocol supported by the TCAP Entity.  The
protocol options can be a single dash
.RB ( - ),
specifying that no protocol options are specified, or one, or a comma
.RB ( , )
separated list (with no intervening whitespace) of more than one of the
following option strings:
.RS
.TP
.B mplev
MTP supports multiple priority levels.
.PD 0
.TP
.B pcr
MTP supports Preventative Cyclic Retransmission.
.TP
.B hsl
MTP supports High-Speed Links.
.TP
.B xsn
MTP supports extended sequence numbers.
.TP
.B nopr
MTP supports alignment of signalling links without proving.
.TP
.B tfr
MTP supports the Transfer Restricted procedures.
.TP
.B tfrb
MTP supports the Transfer Restricted procedures (broadcast).
.TP
.B tfrr
MTP supports the Transfer Restricted procedures (responsive).
.TP
.B mcsta
MTP supports multiple congestion states.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I sap
Specifies the SCCP SAP (Service Access Points) associated with the TCAP
Entity.  The SCCP SAP can be a single dash
.RB ( - ),
specifying that the default SCCP SAPs for the Application OID should be used,
or a comma
.RB ( , )
separated list of SCCP SAP specifications.  A single SCCP SAP specification
consists of a non-GT SCCP address specification which consists of an SS7 point
code and subsystem number in numbers and dots notation,
.RS
.nf
.sp
\fR[\fIA\fB.\fR]\fIN\fB.\fIC\fB.\fIM\fB.\fIS\fR[\fB,\fR[\fIA\fB.\fR]\fIN\fB.\fIC\fB.\fIM\fB.\fIS\fR]*
.sp
.fi
where the fields are defined as follows:
.TP \w'\fIM\fR\(em'u
.I A
Optionally specifies the network appearance that defines the protocol variant,
network indicator, form of the SS7 signalling point code, and interpretation of
the subsystem number.  When this field is not included, the default protocol
variant and network indicator will be used.  When included, this field can be
one of the values configured against the Message Transfer Part (see
.BR mtp (4)).
.TP
.I N
Specifies the network number portion of the SS7 signalling point code as a
decimal, octal, or hexidecimal number in shell notation.  (This can be a 4-bit
(0-15) or 8-bit (0-255) field depending upon the protocol variant.)
.TP
.I C
Specifies the cluster number portion of the SS7 signalling point code as a
decimal, octal, or hexidecimal number in shell notation.  (This can be a 6-bit
(0-63) or 8-bit (0-255) field depending upon the protocol variant.)
.TP
.I M
Specifies the member number portion of the SS7 signalling point code as a
decimal, octal, or hexidecimal number in shell notation.  (This can be a 4-bit
(0-15) or 8-bit (0-255) field depending upon the protocol variant.)
.TP
.I S
Specifes the SCCP subsystem number as a decimal, octal, or hexidecimal number
in shell notation.
.RE
.PP
The configuration utility reads this configuration file and performs the
following steps for each entry in the file:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The utility opens a Stream on the TCAP driver using the
.B /dev/tcap-mgmt
device.
.IP 2.
The utility creates a new TCAP Entity or alters an existing TCAP Entity as
specified by the
.I teid
field and fills out the protocol variant, version and options information
associated with the TCAP Entity.
The
.I TCAP_IOCSCONFIG
.BR tcap_ioctl (4)
command for the
.I TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_TE
object
is used.
.IP 3.
For each
.I sap
entry, the utility creates a new SCCP SAP object or alters an existing SCCP
SAP object and associates it with the TCAP entity using the
.I TCAP_IOCSCONFIG
.BR tcap_ioctl (4)
command for the
.I TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_SP
object.
The SCCP SAP is assigned the SS7 signalling point code and Subsystem Number
specified in the configuration file field.
.IP 4.
For each
.I sap
entry, the utility opens an SCCP Stream by opening the
.B /dev/sccp
device and links the SCCP Stream under the TCAP multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_PLINK (7)
.BR streamio (7)
input-output control.
The utility can optionally bind the SCCP Stream to the SCCP SAP before
linking.  When bound in advance, the linking operation discovers the allocated
SCCP SAP object and associates the SCCP Stream with the SCCP SAP.
.IP 5.
When the SCCP Stream is not bound before linking, the utility associates the
SCCP Stream with an SCCP SAP using the
.I TCAP_IOCSCONFIG
.BR tcap_ioctl (4)
command for the
.I TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_SC
object.
.IP 6.
The TCAP Entity configuraiton is complete and the next line of the
configuration file is processed by the configuration utility starting at Step 2.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Note that, although the SCCP normally supports binding of SCCP SAPs that
include a restrictive global title range, the TCAP device configuration
utility only supports binding of SCCP Streams to entire subsystems.
.PP
Note also that the protocol variant for the TCAP Entity, as described in the
.IR variant ", " version " and " options
fields, can be different from the protocol variant used for the
SCCP SAP in the
.I sap
field.  This is to support the widespread practice in North America for
transporting ETSI TCAP over ANSI SCCP.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl(2)
system calls on the
.IR tcap_stream ", " tcap_xtistr " or " tcap_socket
file descriptor or socket.  These management controls are documented in
.BR tcap_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tcap (8),
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR tcapi (7),
.BR tpi_tcap (7),
.BR tcap_socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR xnet (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/tcapi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/tcapi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_tcap.h> ,
.BR <xti_tcap.h> ,
.BR <netss7/tcap.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.HP
.IR /dev/tcap ,
.IR /dev/tcap-tci .
These device names are two names for the same device.  The device provides a
clone or auto-clone Stream providing the TCI interface, not associated with a
TCAP Entity.
This device can also be opened using the
.BR specfs (5)
entry,
.IR /dev/streams/tcap/tc .
Additional
.BR specfs (5)
device entries,
.IR /dev/streams/tcap/tc01 " through " /dev/streams/tcap/tc31 ,
may be opened to obtain a Stream associated with TCAP Entities 1 through 31,
depending on the minor device number.
.HP
.IR /dev/tcap-tri .
This device provides an auto-clone Stream providing the TRI interface, not
assocaited witha TCAP Entity.
This device can also be opened using the
.BR specfs (5)
entry,
.IR /dev/streams/tcap/tr .
Additional
.BR specfs (5)
device entries,
.IR /dev/streams/tcap/tr01 " through " /dev/streams/tcap/tr31 ,
may be opened to obtain a Stream associated with TCAP Entities 1 through 31,
depending on the minor device number.
.HP
.IR /dev/tcap-tpi-cl ,
.IR /dev/tcap-tpi-co .
These devices provide an auto-clone Stream providing the TPI T_CLTS or T_COTS
interface, not associated with TCAP Entity.
These devices can also be opened using the
.BR specfs (5)
entry,
.IR /dev/streams/tcap/tpcl " or " /dev/streams/tcap/tpco .
Additional
.BR specfs (5)
device entries,
.IR /dev/streams/tcap/tpcl01 " through " /dev/streams/tcap/tpcl31 ", and " /dev/streams/tcap/tpco01 " through " /dev/streams/tcap/tpco31 ,
may be opened to obtain a Stream associated with TCAP Entities 1 through 31,
depending on the minor device number.
.HP
.IR /dev/tcap-mgmt .
This device provides an auto-clone Stream providing the management interface,
not associated with a TCAP Entity.
This device can also be opened using the
.BR specfs (5)
entry,
.IR /dev/streams/tcap/lm .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B TCI
and
.B TRI
interfaces are specific to the
.B OpenSS7
SS7 stack.
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
TCI interfaces are consistent with TCI Revision 0.9.2.
.[
tci revision 0.9.2
.]
.PD 0
.IP \(bu
TRI interfaces are consistent with TRI Revision 0.9.2.
.[
tri revision 0.9.2
.]
.IP \(bu
XTI interfaces are consistent with XNS 5.2 Revision 2.
.[
xns 5.2
.]
.IP \(bu
TPI interfaces are consistent with TPI Revision 2.0.0, Draft 2.
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.PD
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
