'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: tcap_ioctl.4.man,v 0.9.2.9 2007/08/03 13:34:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/08/03 13:34:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: tcap_ioctl.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2007/08/03 13:34:50  brian
.\" - manual updates, put ss7 modules in public release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/12/27 16:35:54  brian
.\" - added slpmod module and fixups for make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/05 09:43:05  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH TCAP-IOCTL 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B tcap_ioctl
\- SS7 Transaction Capablities Application Part (TCAP) Device - Input-Output Controls
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/tcap.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/tcap_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "struct strioctl *" arg ;
.HP
.BI "int " tcap_stream " = open(" \fR\*(lq/dev/tcap\*(rq\fI ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" tcap_stream ", " \fRI_STR\fP ", " arg );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B TCAP-IOCTL
is a definition of the managed object model for the
.BR tcap (4)
driver using the input-output contols defined in
.BR lmi_ioctl (4).
The
.BR tcap (4)
driver is an implementatino of the SS7 Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP) protocol
defined in ITU-T Recommendations Q.771-Q.775,
.[
q771
.]
.[
q772
.]
.[
q773
.]
.[
q774
.]
.[
q775
.]
ETSI TCAP Version 1 and 2,
.[
tcapv1
.]
.[
tcapv2
.]
ANSI T1.114,
.[
t1.114
.]
and other national standards documents.
The
.B TCAP-IOCTL
provide the definition of the managed objects for the
.BR tcap (4)
driver in accordance with the manage object model in ITU-T Recommendation Q.751.1,
.[
q.751.1
.]
Q.751.2,
.[
q.751.2
.]
and Q.752;
.[
q.752
.]
and ANSI T1.116.1 and T1.116.2.
.[
t1.116.1
.]
.[
t1.116.2
.]
.PP
TCAP is an implementation of the Signalling System No. 7 Transaction Capabilities Application Part
(TCAP).
.[
q771
.]
.[
q772
.]
.[
q773
.]
.[
q774
.]
.[
q775
.]
.[
tcapv1
.]
.[
tcapv2
.]
.[
t1.114
.]
TCAP provides for the exchange of reliable sequenced or unreliable unsequenced deliver of packets
over a connectionless network provider between two TCAP Entity Users.  TCAP relies on strong
assurances that the data arrives in order on stream, if requested, and expects maintenance of
sequencing of packets in the face of most network failures, from the network provider.  TCAP
provides four Operations Classes:
.TP
.I Operations Class 1
Success and failure are reported.
.TP
.I Operations Class 2
Success is reported, but not failure.
.TP
.I Operations Class 3
Failure is reported, but not success.
.TP
.I Operations Class 4
Neither success nor failure are reported.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Protocol Service Interface"
.PP
TCAP provides the following stream types:
.HP
.IR /dev/tcap ", " /dev/tcap-tci
This device provides the TCAP protocol service interface using the TC-primitives of the Transaction
Component Interface (TCI)
.[
tci revision 0.9.2
.]
described in
.BR tci (7).
.HP
.IR /dev/tcap-tri
This device provides the TCAP protocol service interface using the TR-primitives of the Transaction
Interface (TRI)
.[
tri revision 0.9.2
.]
described in
.BR tri (7).
.HP
.IR /dev/tcap-tpi-cl
This device provides the TCAP protocol service interface using the T-primitives of the Transport
Provider Interface (TPI)
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
described in
.BR tpi (7),
for connectionless service.  It only supports Operations Class 4.
.HP
.IR /dev/tcap-tpi-co
This device provides the TCAP protocol service interface using the T-primitives of the Transport
Provider Interface (TPI)
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
described in
.BR tpi (7),
for connection-mode service.  It only supports Operations Classes 1, 2 and 3.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Object Model"
.PP
TCAP provides for management of a number of managed objects.  These objects are of a number of types
as follows:
.TP
.B TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_DF
This manage object contains system-wide defaults.  Changing the values associated with this object
changes the default used when new object are created.  There is only one instance of the default
object that is created with the kernel module is loaded and destroyed when the kernel module is
unloaded.  Information in this object is not persistent between module loads.  (However, Linux has
had the capability for some time to store persistent kernel module data between kernel module loads
and this object is a candidate for this type of peristence.)
.TP
.B TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_TC
This managed object represents the user of the protocol service interface being provided by the TCAP
provider.  For TCAP, this is a Transaction Component Interface (TCI),
.[
tci revision 0.9.2
.]
.BR tci (7),
a Transaction Interface (TRI),
.[
tri revision 0.9.2
.]
.BR tri (7),
or Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
service interface.
Management of this interface, therefore, is in accordance with the specific protocol.  TCAP user
objects are bound to TCAP Entities using the protocol service interface.
.sp
For the TCAP multiplexing driver, this is the object associated with a Stream opened on the upper
multiplexing driver; for the TCAP module, the Stream after the module is pushed.  In the STREAMS
implementation, it is the private data associated with a queue-pair on the upper multiplex, or
module.
.TP
.B TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_IV
An Invoke object represents an operation in the Idle, Operation Sent, or Wait for Reject state.  IV
objects are created and destroyed on demand by the TCAP provider protocol functions.  These objects
are dynamic and cannod be managed, but their existence and state can be interrogated.  Invoke
objects are associated with a Dialogue object.  They contain information about the operation
including the invoke id, linked id, operation class, and operation.  Invoke objects are identified
by a TCAP Entity id, a dialogue id and invoke id.
.\".TP
.\".B TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_OP
.TP
.B TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_DG
A Dialogue object represents a dialogue in the Initiation Sent, Initiation Received or Active state.
DG objects are created and destroyed on demand by the TCAP provider protocol functions.  These
objects are dynamic and cannot be managed, but their existence and state can be interrogated.
Dialogue object are associated with a Transaction object.  They contain information about the
dialogue including the Application Context, user dialogue id and provider dialogue id.  Dialogue
objects are identified by a TCAP Entity id and dialogue id.
.\".TP
.\".B TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_AC
.TP
.B TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_TR
A Transaction object represents a transaction in the Initiation Sent, Initiation Received or Active
state.  TR objects are created and destroyed on demand by the TCAP provider protocol functions.
These object are dynamic and cannot be managed, but their existence and state can be interrogated.
Transaction objects are associated with a TCAP User, TCAP Entity and SCCP-SAP objects.  They contain
information about the transaction including the originating and destination transaction ids, and
remote SCCP address.  Transaction objects are identified by a TCAP Entity id and provider
transaction id.
.TP
.B TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_TE
A TCAP Entity object represents a local TCAP provider instance.  TCAP Entity objects may be created
on demand, using defaults from the Default object, but persist until explicitly destroyed using
management controls.  Whenever it is requested that a TCAP user or SCCP-SAP be associated with a
TCAP Entity for which a TCAP Entity does not yet exist, a TCAP Entity object is created on demand.
TCAP Entities are identified by their local TCAP Entity Identifier.  TCAP Entities provide service
to TCAP Users bound to Application Contexts.  A collection of SCCP-SAPs provide network service to
the TCAP Entity.
.TP
.B TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_SP
The SCCP-SAP object is a management object that represents an SCCP service access point.  SP objects
are created on demand, using defaults from the Default object, but must be explicitly destroyed.
Whenever it is requested that an SC object be associated with an SCCP-SAP for which an SCCP-SAP does
not yet exist, an SCCP-SAP object is created on demand.  An SCCP-SAP instance is identified by its
SCCP address.  Each SCCP-SAP object obtains network connectivity via a single SCCP provider object.
.TP
.B TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_SC
The SC object is a management object that represents the SCCP provider.  SC objects are created on
demand, using defaults from the Default object, and information obtained by interrogating the SCCP
provider, and destroyed when unused.  Whenever and SCCP provider Stream is linked under a TCAP
multiplexing driver or has a TCAP module pushed over it, an SCCP provider object is created on
demand.  Whenever the SCCP provider Stream is unliked from the TCAP multiplexing driver or the TCAP
module is popped, the object is destroyed.  A SCCP provider object is \(lqused\(rq when it has an
SCCP provider Stream associated with it.
.sp
For TCAP multiplexing drivers, this is the object associated with an SCCP provider Stream linked
under the multiplexing driver; for TCAP modules, the Stream upon which the module was pushed.  In
the STREAMS implementation, it is the private data associated with a queue-pair on the lower
multiplex, or the read-queue of the pushable module.
SCCP provider objects are, therefore, identified by their STREAMS lower multiplex identifiers
returned from the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
operation, or are implicitly identified by the Stream over which a TCAP module was pushed using the
.IR I_PUSH (7)
operation.
.PP
.BR "Figure 1" ,
below, illustrates the object model.
.PP
As can be seen from the illustration, User Streams, TC objects and AC objects have a one-to-one
relationship.  The User Stream can be viewed as the implementation of the TC-AC managed objects.
The TC managed object can be viewed as all of the TCAP attributes of the User Stream, whereas the AC
object can be viewed as all of the Application aspects of the User Stream.
.PP
Also, SCCP provider Streams, SC objects and SP objects also have a one-to-one relationship.  The
SCCP provider Stream can be viewed as the implementation of the SP-SC managed objects.  The SC
managed object can be viewed as all of the SCCP aspects of the SCCP provider Stream.
.PP
TCAP Entity objects map TC User Streams to SCCP Provider Streams.
.PP
Each object has associated with it information in the following categories:
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
All objects must be configured using
.IR I_STR (7)
.BR streamio (7)
.BR ioctl (2)
calls before they are usable.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef union tcap_conf_obj {
    struct tcap_conf_df df;
    struct tcap_conf_tc tc;
    struct tcap_conf_iv iv;
    struct tcap_conf_dg dg;
    struct tcap_conf_tr tr;
    struct tcap_conf_te te;
    struct tcap_conf_sp sp;
    struct tcap_conf_sc sc;
} tcap_conf_obj_t;

typedef struct tcap_conf {
    t_uscalar_t type; /* object type */
    t_uscalar_t id;   /* object id */
    t_uscalar_t cmd;  /* object command */
    /* followed by specific configuration structure */
    tcap_conf_obj_t config[0];
} tcap_config_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I type
specifies the object type.  See object types under
.RI \(lq "Object Model" ,\(rq
above.
.TP
.I id
specifies the object identifier that identifies the object instance within the object type.  When
the operation is
.BR TCAP_ADD ,
this field can be set to zero (0) and
the TCAP provider
will select a new unique object identifier or access the implicit object.  When the operation is
.BR TCAP_GET ,
this field can be set to zero (0) and
the TCAP provider
will return all object configurations of a type that will fit into the supplied buffer.
.TP
.I cmd
specifies the command.  This field can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B TCAP_GET
Get configuration of an object.
This command is only valid with input-output control
.BR TCAP_IOCGCONFIG .
.TP
.B TCAP_ADD
Add an object.
This command is not valid with input-output control
.BR TCAP_IOCGCONFIG .
.TP
Change an object.
.B TCAP_CHA
This command is not valid with input-output control
.BR TCAP_IOCGCONFIG .
.TP
.B TCAP_DEL
Delete an object.
This command is not valid with input-output control
.BR TCAP_IOCGCONFIG .
.RE
.PP
The following input-output control commands use this structure:
.TP
.B TCAP_IOCGCONFIG
Get an object configuration.
.TP
.B TCAP_IOCSCONFIG
Set an object configuration.  This command may fail if an object is busy.
.TP
.B TCAP_IOCTCONFIG
Test an object configuration.
.TP
.B TCAP_IOCCCONFIG
Commit an object configuration.  This command will not fail if an object is busy.
.PP
The structures required to specify configuration are as follows (in order of dependency):
.\"
.SS "Default"
.PP
Although a configuration structure is defined for the default object, there is no need to create or
configure the default object.  This object is created and configured at the time that the module
loads.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_conf_df {
} tcap_conf_df_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "TCAP User"
.PP
The TCAP user is an object of type
.BR TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_TC .
TCAP user objects cannot be created, configured or destroyed using the management interface, but can
be interrogated.
.PP
The object-specific configuration structure for TCAP User objects is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_conf_tc {
} tcap_conf_tc_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "TCAP Entity"
.PP
These objects of type
.B TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_TE
represent a local TCAP Entity.  No information is required to create a TCAP Entity.
.PP
The object-specific configuration structure for TCAP Entities is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_conf_te {
    lmi_option_t proto;               /* protocol variant and options */
} tcap_conf_te_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I proto
specifies the protocol variant and protocol options associated with the TCAP Entity.  Note that the
protocol variant and options associated with the TCAP Entity can be different from the protocol
variant and options associated with the SCCP-SAP.  This is to support, for example, the common
practise of running ITU-T TCAP over ANSI SCCP.
.RS
.TP
.I pvar
specifies the Protocol Variant.  For valid protocol variant values, see
.BR lmi_ioctl (4).
.TP
.I popt
specifies the Protocol Options.  For valid general protocol option values, see
.BR lmi_ioctl "(4), " mtp_ioctl "(4) and " sccp_ioctl (4).
TCAP does not add any new protocol option values.
.RE
.\"
.SS "SCCP-SAP"
.PP
These object of type
.B TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_SP
represent a local SCCP SAP to the SCCP layer.  Because this is an SCCP-SAP, the information required
to configure the SCCP-SAP consists of a MTP-SAP and an SCCP Subsystem Number.  An MTP-SAP consists
of a Network Appearance, a Signalling Point Code (Network, Cluster, Member), and a Service Indicator
value (SCCP=3).  Also, because an SCCP SAP serves a TCAP entity, a TCAP entity identifier is also
required.
.PP
The object-specific configuration structure for SCCP-SAP objects is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_conf_sp {
    t_uscalar_t teid;                 /* local TCAP Entity identifier */
    struct sccp_addr add;             /* local SCCP-SAP */
    lmi_option_t proto;               /* protocol variant and options */
} tcap_conf_sp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I teid
specifies the identifier of the local TCAP Entity to which this SCCP-SAP provides network service.
.TP
.I add
specifes the local SCCP-SAP as a restricted form of the SCCP address:
.RS
.TP
.I add.ni
specifies the network indicator for the SCCP-SAP.
.TP
.I add.ri
specifies the routing indicator for the SCCP address.  This field should be set to
.BR SCCP_RI_DPC_SSN,
and is ignored by the TCAP provider.
.TP
.I add.pc
specifies the signalling point code for the SCCP address.  This field must be formatted appropriately
for the associated protocol variant.
.TP
.I add.ssn
specifies the subsystem number.  Subsystem number zero is prohibited.
.TP
.I add.gtt
specifies the global title type.  This field should be set to
.BR SCCP_GTTYPE_NONE ,
and is ignored by the TCAP provider.
.TP
.I add.tt
specifies the translaction type.  This field should be set to zero (0) and is ignored by the TCAP
provider.
.TP
.I add.es
specifies the encoding scheme.  This field should be set to zero (0) and is ignored by the TCAP
provider.
.TP
.I add.nplan
specifies the numbering plan.  This field should be set to zero (0) and is ignored by the TCAP
provider.
.TP
.I add.alen
specifies the length of the
.I addr
field.  This field should be set to zero (0).
.TP
.I add.addr[]
specifies the address signals.  This field should not be present.
.RE
.TP
.I proto
specifies the protocol variant and protocol options associated with the SCCP-SAP.
.RS
.TP
.I pvar
specifies the Protocol Variant.  For valid protocol variant values, see
.BR lmi_ioctl (4).
.TP
.I popt
specifies the Protocol Options.  For valid general protocol option values, see
.BR lmi_ioctl "(4), " mtp_ioctl "(4) and " sccp_ioctl (4).
TCAP does not add any new protocol option values.
.RE
.\"
.SS "SCCP Provider"
.PP
SCCP providers are objects of type
.B TCAP_OBJ_TYPE_SC
that provide service to TCAP Entities via an SCCP-SAP.  SCCP providers comprise separate Streams
that provide SCCP services using the
.BR npi (7)
interface.  These Stremas are linked under the TCAP multiplexing driver,
.BR tcap (4),
using the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
.BR streamio (7)
operation.  When linked, SCCP providers are configured using the
.B TCAP_IOCSCONFIG
command.
.PP
An SCCP provider is determined by its lower multiplexing driver identifier that was returned as a
result of the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
operation and the SCCP-SAP to which it belongs.  The SCCP-SAP is identified by its SCCP address.
.PP
The object-specific configuration structure for SCCP provider objects is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_conf_sp {
    t_uscalar_t spid;                 /* local SCCP-SAP identifier */
    t_scalar_t muxid;                 /* lower multiplexing driver id */
} tcap_conf_sp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I spid
specifies the SCCP-SAP identifier that identifies the local subsystem to which the SCCP provider is
associated.  This field wil be set to zero (0) when the SCCP-SAP object is implicit (i.e. for the
TCAP pushable module where there is only one SCCP-SAP object).
.TP
.I muxid
specifies the lower multiplex identifier returned by the STREAMS susbsystem when the SCCP provider
Stream was linked under a TCAP multiplexer using the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
.BR streamio (7)
operation.  This field will be set to zero (0) when the lower SCCP provider Stream is implicit (i.e.
when it has been pushed under a TCAP module using the
.IR I_PUSH (7)
.BR streamio (7)
operation).
.\"
.\"
.SH TIMERS
.PP
This section defines the object-specific timer structures.  The same object-specific timer
structures are used to reference a running timer in the state structures (described under
.RI \(lq STATE ,\(rq
below), as well as to reference the timeout value in the options structures (described under
.IR \(lq OPTIONS ,\(rq
below).
.PP
Timers and timeout intervals for TCAP managed objects are determined by the relevant standards.
See, for example, Q.774
.[
q774
.]
or ANSI T1.114.
.[
t1.114
.]
The nature of each timer is described briefly in this section.  The sub-sections that follow
describe the timer structure for each managed object type.
.\"
.SS "Default"
.PP
TCAP has no global or general timers not directly associated with an operation.  No timers are
defined by Q.774
.[
q774
.]
or ANSI T1.114
.[
t1.114
.]
for the system hosting the TCAP.
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_timers_df {
} tcap_timers_df_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "TC User"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_timers_tc {
    tcap_timer_t tinv;      /* invoke timer */
    tcap_timer_t trej;      /* reject timer */
} tcap_timers_tc_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I tinv
Specifies the default invoke operation timer for operations invoked from this TCAP User.
.TP
.I trej
Specifies the default reject operation timer for operations invoked from this TCAP User.
.\"
.SS "Invoke"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_timers_iv {
    tcap_timer_t tinv;      /* invoke timer */
    tcap_timer_t trej;      /* reject timer */
} tcap_timers_iv_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I tinv
Specifies the invoke operation timer for this operation.
.TP
.I trej
Specifies the reject operation timer for this operation.
.\"
.SS "Dialogue"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_timers_dg {
} tcap_timers_dg_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "Transaction"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_timers_tr {
} tcap_timers_tr_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "TCAP Entity"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_timers_te {
    tcap_timer_t tinv;      /* invoke timer */
    tcap_timer_t trej;      /* reject timer */
} tcap_timers_te_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I tinv
Specifies the default invoke operation timer for operations invoked from this TCAP Entity.
.TP
.I trej
Specifies the default reject operation timer for operations invoked from this TCAP Entity.
.\"
.SS "SCCP-SAP"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_timers_sp {
} tcap_timers_sp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "SCCP Provider"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_timers_sc {
} tcap_timers_sc_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef union tcap_option_obj {
    struct tcap_opt_conf_df df;
    struct tcap_opt_conf_tc tc;
    struct tcap_opt_conf_iv iv;
    struct tcap_opt_conf_dg dg;
    struct tcap_opt_conf_tr tr;
    struct tcap_opt_conf_te te;
    struct tcap_opt_conf_sp sp;
    struct tcap_opt_conf_sc sc;
} tcap_option_obj_t;

typedef struct tcap_option {
    t_uscalar_t type;                   /* object type */
    t_uscalar_t id;                     /* object id */
    /* followed by specific proto structure */
    tcap_option_obj_t options[0];
} tcap_option_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I type
specifies the object type.  See objects under
.RI \(lq "Object Model" ,\(rq
above.
.TP
.I id
specifies the object identifier that identifies the object instance within the object type.
.PP
The following input-output control use the
.B tcap_option
structure:
.TP
.B TCAP_IOCGOPTION
Get object options.
.TP
.B TCAP_IOCSOPTION
Set object options.
.PP
Following are the object specific options structures:
.\"
.SS "Default"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_opt_conf_df {
} tcap_opt_conf_df_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "TCAP User"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_opt_conf_tc {
} tcap_opt_conf_tc_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "Invoke"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_opt_conf_iv {
} tcap_opt_conf_iv_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "Dialogue"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_opt_conf_dg {
} tcap_opt_conf_dg_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "Transaction"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_opt_conf_tr {
} tcap_opt_conf_tr_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "TCAP Entity"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_opt_conf_te {
} tcap_opt_conf_te_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "SCCP-SAP"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_opt_conf_sp {
} tcap_opt_conf_sp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "SCCP Provider"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_opt_conf_sc {
} tcap_opt_conf_sc_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef union tcap_statem_obj {
    struct tcap_statem_df df;
    struct tcap_statem_tc tc;
    struct tcap_statem_iv iv;
    struct tcap_statem_dg dg;
    struct tcap_statem_tr tr;
    struct tcap_statem_te te;
    struct tcap_statem_sp sp;
    struct tcap_statem_sc sc;
} tcap_statem_obj_t;

typedef struct tcap_statem {
    t_uscalar_t type;                   /* object type */
    t_uscalar_t id;                     /* object id */
    t_uscalar_t flags;                  /* object flags */
    t_uscalar_t state;                  /* object state */
    /* followed by object-specific state structure */
    tcap_statem_obj_t statem[0];
} tcap_statem_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I type
specifies the object type.  See object types under
.RI \(lq "Object Model" ,\(rq
above.
.TP
.I id
specifies the object identifier that identifies the object instance within the object type.
.TP
.I state
specifies the primary state of the object.
.TP
.I flags
specifies the primary state flags associated with the object.
.PP
The input-output controls that use the
.B tcap_statem
structure are as follows:
.TP
.B TCAP_IOCGSTATEM
Get object state.
.TP
.B TCAP_IOCCMRESET
Reset object state.
.PP
The object specific state structures are described in the subsections that follow:
.\"
.SS "Default"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_statem_df {
    tcap_timers_df_t timers;
} tcap_statem_df_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "TCAP User"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_statem_tc {
    tcap_timers_tc_t timers;
} tcap_statem_tc_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "Invoke"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_statem_iv {
    tcap_timers_iv_t timers;
} tcap_statem_iv_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "Dialogue"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_statem_dg {
    tcap_timers_dg_t timers;
} tcap_statem_dg_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "Transaction"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_statem_tr {
    tcap_timers_tr_t timers;
} tcap_statem_tr_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "TCAP Entity"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_statem_te {
    tcap_timers_te_t timers;
} tcap_statem_te_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "SCCP-SAP"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_statem_sp {
    tcap_timers_sp_t timers;
} tcap_statem_sp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "SCCP Provider"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_statem_sc {
    tcap_timers_sc_t timers;
} tcap_statem_sc_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH STATS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef union tcap_stats_obj {
    struct tcap_stats_df df;
    struct tcap_stats_tc tc;
    struct tcap_stats_iv iv;
    struct tcap_stats_dg dg;
    struct tcap_stats_tr tr;
    struct tcap_stats_te te;
    struct tcap_stats_sp sp;
    struct tcap_stats_sc sc;
} tcap_stats_obj_t;

typedef struct tcap_stats {
    t_uscalar_t type;                   /* object type */
    t_uscalar_t id;                     /* object id */
    /* followed by specific proto structure */
    tcap_stats_obj_t stats[0];
} tcap_option_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I type
specifies the object type.  See objects under
.RI \(lq "Object Model" ,\(rq
above.
.TP
.I id
specifies the object identifier that identifies the object instance within the object type.
.PP
The following input-output control use the
.B tcap_stats
structure:
.TP
.B TCAP_IOCGSTATSP
Get statistics periods.
.TP
.B TCAP_IOCSSTATSP
Set statistics periods.
.TP
.B TCAP_IOCGSTATS
Get statistics.
.TP
.B TCAP_IOCCSTATS
Collect statistics (performs an atomic get and reset).
.PP
Following are the object specific options structures:
.\"
.SS "Default"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_stats_df {
} tcap_stats_df_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "TCAP User"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_stats_tc {
} tcap_stats_tc_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "Invoke"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_stats_iv {
} tcap_stats_iv_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "Dialogue"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_stats_dg {
} tcap_stats_dg_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "Transaction"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_stats_tr {
} tcap_stats_tr_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "TCAP Entity"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_stats_te {
/* Q.752/A.1 a) protocol error in transaction portion with P-abort cause: unrecognized message type */
} tcap_stats_te_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "SCCP SAP"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_stats_sp {
} tcap_stats_sp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS "SCCP Provider"
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct tcap_stats_sc {
} tcap_stats_sc_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
Input output control have not been described yet.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B THIS MANUAL PAGE IS INCOMPLETE AND MUST BE COMPLETED.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
