'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: tua.4.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/03/30 13:39:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TUA 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B TUA
\- SS7 TCAP User Adaptation Layer (TUA)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/tcapi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/tcapi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/tua_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " tua_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " tua_xtistr " = t_open(" device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " tua_socket " = socket(" \fRPF_SS7\fI ", " socket_type ", " \fRSS7PROTO_TUA\fI );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B TUA
is an implementation of the SS7 TCAP User Adaptation Layer (TUA).
.[
tua-01
.]
.B TUA
provides a back haul of the services of
.BR tcap (4)
over an IP network using Stream Control Transmission Protocol,
.BR sctp (4),
as defined in RFC 2960.
.[
RFC 2960
.]
In addition it provides a building block of redundant
and distributed SS7 systems.  (See
.IR \*(lqNOTICES\*(rq ,
below.)
.PP
.B TUA
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver for
.BR LiS (9)\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
.BR tcap "(4) or " sctp (4)
streams are lined under the
.B TUA
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide transport or direct TCAP services to
.BR TUA .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR tuas_ioctl (4).
This procedure is normally performed by the
SS7 Configuration Daemon,
.BR ss7confd (8).
.PP
.B TUA
provides the following stream types that are directly compatible with the
stream types provided by
.BR tcap (4).
To select one of these stream types,
.I device
can be one of the following:
.TP
.I /dev/tua
This device provides the
.B TCAP
protocol service interface using the TR- and TC-primitives of the Transaction
Component Interface (TCI) described in
.BR tcapi (7).
This interface is suitable for use with other SS7 modules and drivers.
.TP
.I /dev/tua-tpi
This device provides the
.B TCAP
protocol service interface using the T-primitives of the Transport Provider
Interface,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
used for the Transaction Capabilities Application Part as described in
.BR tcap_tpi (7).
The
.BR tpi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is a suitable device for
use with
.BR xnet (3)
or
.BR xti (3)
library
.BR t_open (3)
call and provides the
.B TCAP
interface using XTI
.[
XTI
.]
.[
XNS
.]
as described in
.BR xti_tcap (3).
.PP
.B TUA
provides three socket types used by the
.BR sockets (3)
library
.BR socket (3)
call.
.B TUA
provides sockets in the protocol family
.B PF_SS7
using the protocol number
.BR SS7PROTO_TUA .
The
.I socket_type
argument can be one of the following:
.TP
.B SOCK_DGRAM
Provides a connection-less datagram service without regard to order.  This is a
.B TCAP
operations class 1 or 2 service provider.
.TP
.B SOCK_RDM
Provides a connectiono-less reliable datagram service with regard to order.
This is a
.B TCAP
operations class 3 or 4 service provider.
.TP
.B SOCK_SEQPACKET
Provides a connection oriented reliable datagram service with or without
receipt confirmation and flow control.  This is a
.B TCAP
operations class 5 service provider.
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B TUA
can be configured on a system as a drop in transparent replacement for
.BR tcap (4).
In such a configuration, users opening streams or sockets as defined in
.BR tcap (4)
will be opening 
.B tua
streams and sockets, but will be unaware of the difference.  In
.BR OpenSS7 ,
.B sua
is used as the primary mechanism of redundancy and distribution at the
.B TCAP
level, and, when properly configured (see
.BR ss7confd (8)),
.B tua
functions transparently to the TCAP-User.
.PP
Also, opening and binding a
.B tua
stream or socket may result in the opening and binding of a
.BR tcap (4)
stream on the local or remote host in direct support of the local TCAP-User.
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
system calls on the
.BR tua_stream ", " tua_xtistr " or " tua_socket
file descriptor or socket.  These management controls are documented in
.BR tua_ioctl (4).
.PP
In addition,
.B tua
supports
.BR tcap (4)
IO controls.  See
.BR tcap_ioctl (4).
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/tua ", " /dev/tua-tpi .
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/tcapi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/tcapi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/tua_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_ss7.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_mtp.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_sccp.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_tcap.h> ,
.BR <xti.h> ,
.BR <xti_tcap.h> ,
.BR <sys/socket.h> .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR tcapi (7),
.BR tcap_tpi (7),
.BR xti_tcap (3),
.BR tcao_socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR tua_ioctl (4),
.BR tcap_ioctl (4).
.XX
.[
tua-01
.]
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
