'\" rt
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: udp.4.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/01/26 07:57:46 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:46 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH UDP 4 "$Date: 2005/01/26 07:57:46 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 INET Devices"
.SH NAME
.B udp
\- User Datagram Protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netinet/udp.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/tpi_udp.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/xti_udp.h>
.HP
.BI "int " udp_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/udp\fI ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " udp_xtistr " = t_open(" \fR/dev/udp\fI ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " udp_socket " = socket(" \fRPF_INET\fI ", " \fRSOCK_DGRAM\fI ", " \fRIPPROTO_UDP\fI );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B UDP
is an implementation of the User Datagram Protocol
.RB ( UDP )
defined in RFC 768.
.[
RFC 768
.]
It implements a connectoinless, unreliable datagram packet service.  Packets
may be reordered or duplicated before they arrive.
.B UDP
generates and checks checksums to catch transmission errors.
.PP
.B UDP
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
pseudo-driver using the
.BR INET (4)
.B strinet
packet for
.B LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
The
.B strinet
package translate Linux native
.BR udp (7)
sockets into TPI
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
transport provider streams suitable for use with XTI/TLI,
.[
XTI
.]
.[
XNS
.]
(see
.BR xti (3)).
.PP
.B UDP
provides one connectionless TPI stream type.  To select the stream,
.I udp_device
can be one of the following:
.TP
.IR /dev/udp " or " /dev/inet/udp .
This device provides the
.B UDP
protocol services using the T-primitives of the Transport Provider Interface,
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
used for User Datagram Protocol, as described in
.BR tpi_udp (7).
The
.BR tpi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR xnet (3)
or
.BR xti (3)
library and provides
.B UDP
interface using XTI/TLI
.[
XTI
.]
.[
XNS
.]
as described in
.BR xti_udp (3).
.PP
.B UDP
proivdes one socket type for use by the
.BR sockets (3)
library
.BR socket (7)
calls.
.B UDP
provides sockets in the protocol families
.BR PF_INET " and " PF_INET6
using the protocol number
.BR IPPROTO_UDP .
The
.I socket_type
can be one of the following:
.TP
.B SOCK_DGRAM
A standard
.I SOCK_DGRAM
socket that preserves message boudnaries, does not Nagle, and provides only
unordered and unreliable delivery in a connectionless association.  This
socket uses the underlying Linux socket implementation,
.BR udp (7),
directly.  See
.BR udp (7)
for more information.
.PP
The following entries in
.B /etc/protosw
provides the information for
.BR socksys (4)
to use the devices:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lllllll.
PF_INET:SOCK_DGRAM:IPPROTO_UDP:/dev/udp:tpi:clts
PF_INET6:SOCK_DGRAM:IPPROTO_UDP:/dev/udp:tpi:clts
.TE
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR socksys "(4) and " protosw (5).
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.BR streamio (2)
.I I_STR
system calls on the
.IR udp_stream ", " udp_xtistr " or " udp_socket .
These management controls are described in
.BR timod "(4), " sockmod "(4) and " socksys (4).
See also
.BR udp (7)
for sockets.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.B TCP
has several implementations.  This manpage is for the
.BR INET (4)
implementation that provides
.BR tpi (7)
access to the Linux NET4 version of
.BR UDP .
For more information on the Linux NET4 version, see
.BR udp (7).
.SH FILES
.PP
.PP
.BR <sys/socket.h> ,
.BR <netinet/udp.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_udp.h> ,
.BR <sys/xti.h> ,
.BR <sys/xti_ip.h> ,
.BR <sys/xti_udp.h> .
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.PP
.IR /dev/udp ,
.IR /dev/inet/udp .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.PP
.BR INET (4),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR ip (7),
.BR LiS (9),
.BR protosw (5),
.BR socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR sockmod (4),
.BR socksys (4),
.BR STREAMS (4),
.BR udp (7),
.BR udp_ioctl (4),
.BR timod (4),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR tpi_ip (7),
.BR tpi_udp (7),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR xti_ip (3),
.BR xti_udp (3).
.\"
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T4
