'\" tr
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: VOIP.4,v 0.9 2004/01/17 07:59:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH VOIP 4 "$Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:22 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 VOIP Devices"
.SH NAME
.B VoIP, VoATM
\- Voice over Packet Devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.HP
.BI "int " voip_stream " = open(" voip_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" voip_stream ", " \fRI_PUSH\fI ", " voip_module);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B VoIP
related collection of drivers and modules provide Voice over IP and Voice
over ATM capabilities in a number of related forms, including H.225.0, SIP and
BICC variants.
.SS Devices
.PP
.TP
.BR h225 (4)
.I ITU-T Recommendation H.225.0 (H.323)
protocol layer
.[
h225
.]
.[
h323
.]
that provides the Call Control Interface,
.BR cci (7),
for H225 operation,
.BR cci_h225 (7),
and a Local Management Interface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for H.225.0 management,
.BR h225_ioctl (4).
This protocol layer runs over a number of transport protocols, including
.BR tcp (4).
.TP
.BR sipt (4)
.I Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)
protocol layer
.[
siprfc
.]
.[
sipt
.]
.[
sipping-isup
.]
that provides the Call Control Interface,
.BR cci (7),
for SIPT operation,
.BR cci_sipt (7),
and a Local Management Interface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for SIPT management,
.BR sipt_ioctl (4).
This protocol layer runs over a number of transport protocols, including
.BR tcp (4).
.TP
.BR bicc (4)
.I Bearer Independent Call Control (BICC)
protocol layer
.[
t1bicc
.]
.[
q1902
.]
that provides the Call Control Interface,
.BR cci (7)
for BICC operation,
.BR cci_bicc (7),
and a Local Management Interface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for BICC management,
.BR bicc_ioctl (4).
.\".SS Modules
.PP
.\".SS Drivers
.PP
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
.BR bicc (4)
is also part of the SS7 signalling stack as BICC can be carried over a number
of transport protocols including
.BR mtp (4)
and
.BR sscop (4).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR voipconfd (8),
.BR SIGTRAN (4),
.BR h225 (4),
.BR sipt (4),
.BR bicc (4).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was updated $Date: 2004/01/17 07:59:22 $ for
.B strss7
release $Name:  $($Revision: 0.9 $).
.PP
Most of the devices and modules listed here do no appear until
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TA
