'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: cdi_disable_req.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008/07/08 16:57:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008/07/08 16:57:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: cdi_disable_req.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008/07/08 16:57:15  brian
.\" - updated libraries and manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-07-01 11:50:52  brian
.\" - added manual pages and library implementation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CDI_DISABLE_REQ 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 CDI API Library"
.\" =========================================================================
.SH NAME
.B cdi_disable_req
\- send \fBCD_DISABLE_REQ\fP(7) and await ack.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.BR libdlpiapi (3),
the
.IR GCOM -specific,
CDI
.[
cdi revision 0.9.2
.]
API Library.
.[
cdiapi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.nh
.PP
.B #include <sys/cdi.h>
.br
.B #include <cdiapi.h>
.HP \w'\fBint\ cdi_disable_req\fP('u
\fBint cdi_disable_req\fP(\fBint\fP\ \fIfd\fP, \fBunsigned long\fP\ \fIdisposal\fP, \fBint\ *\fP\fIstate_ptr\fP);
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fIstate_ptr\fP\(em'u
.I fd
the file descriptor for the Stream.
.TP
.I disposal
specifies the disposal for unacknowledged messages.
This argument can have one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBCD_DELIVER\fP\(em'u
.B CD_FLUSH
discard undelivered data.
.PD 0
.TP
.B CD_WAIT
attempt to deliver unsent data.
.TP
.B CD_DELIVER
deliver unsent data.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I state_ptr
pointer to state variable to receive state (or \fBNULL\fP).
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B cdi_disable_req
is a CDI API Library
.[
cdiapi
.]
subroutine.
It issues a
.BR CD_DISABLE_REQ (7)
primitive, with \fIdisposal\fP on the NPI Stream specified by the file
descriptor, \fIfd\fP, and awaits and processes either a
.BR CD_DISABLE_CON (7)
primitive confirming the disable request, or a
.BR CD_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive negatively acknowledging the enable request.
.BR cd_put_disable_req (3)
is used to issue the
.BR CD_DISABLE_REQ (7)
primitive, and
.BR cd_wait_ack (3)
is used to await and process the confirmation or negative acknowledgement.
.PP
The
.I disposal
argument determines the disposition of data buffers that have not yet been
delivered by the CDS provider.  When set to
.BR CD_FLUSH ,
any data remaining in the CDS provider will be flushed.  When
.BR CD_WAIT ,
the CDS provider will attempt to deliver data.  The CDS provider will wait
until the data may be delivered to the lower layer, but once delivered will not
require confirmation before disabling the interface.  When
.BR CD_DELIVER ,
the CDS provider will require acknowledgement from the lower layer that data
has been delivered before confirming disabling of the interface.
.PP
When the operation is confirmed or negativley acknowledged, upon return, the
area pointed to by \fIstate_ptr\fP, when non-\fBNULL\fP, will contain the CDS
provider's current view of the state of the interface.
.PP
This library call is only valid when the CDI Stream is in the
.B CD_ENABLED
state.  The next state upon successful completion is the
.B CD_DISABLED
state.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
To use the
.B cdi_disable_req
function, include
.RB < sys/cdi.h >
and
.RB < cdiapi.h >
header files in C language programs.
Add the
.RB ` -lcdiapi '
flag to the linker command when linking C language programs that use the
.B cdi_disable_req
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
.B cdi_disable_req
is fully thread-safe.
What is described as global variables are in fact thread-specific data when
linked with
.BR libpthread .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.B cdi_disable_req
is successful, it returns one (1), indicating that the
.BR CD_DISABLE_REQ (7)
primitive was issued and confirmed by a
.BR CD_DISABLE_CON (7)
primitive, as is normally the case.
.
If the \fIstate_ptr\fP argument is non-\fBNULL\fP, the CDS provider's view of
the state of the interface is stored in the pointed-to extent.
.PP
When
.B cdi_disable_req
is unsuccessful, it returns zero (0), indication that the
.BR CD_DISABLE_REQ (7)
primitive was issued, but negatively acknowledged by a
.BR CD_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.
.
The CDI error number is in
.BR cerrno (3)
and, when
.BR cerrno (3)
is
.BR CD_SYSERR ,
.IR errno (3)
holds the \fBLinux\fP system error number.
.
If the \fIstate_ptr\fP argument is non-\fBNULL\fP, the CDS provider's view of
the state of the interface is stored in the pointed-to extent.
.PP
When
.B cdi_disable_req
fails, it returns a negative integer value (-1).
.
The CDI error number is in
.BR cerrno (3)
and, when
.BR cerrno (3)
is
.BR CD_SYSERR ,
.IR errno (3)
holds the \fBLinux\fP system error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.B cdi_disable_req
is unsuccessful or fails, it returns zero (0) or a negative integer value (-1).
.
.B cdi_disable_req
is unsuccessful or fails when:
.PP
A CDI provider error occurs:
.TP \w'[\fB\)CD_BADDISPOSAL\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ CD_BADDISPOSAL ]
invalid disposal parameter.
.TP
.RB [ CD_BADPRIM ]
unrecognized primitive.
.TP
.RB [ CD_EVENT ]
protoco-specific event occurred.
.TP
.RB [ CD_FATALERR ]
device has become unusable.
.TP
.RB [ CD_NOTSUPP ]
primitive not supported by this device.
.TP
.RB [ CD_OUTSTATE ]
primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ CD_PROTOSHORT ]
.BR M_PROTO (9)
block too short.
.TP
.RB [ CD_SYSERR ]
A \fBLinux\fP system error occurred and the \fBLinux\fP system error code is
contained in the \fIerrno\fP(3) global variable.
.PP
A \fBLinux\fP system error occurs:
.TP \w'[\fB\)CD_BADDISPOSAL\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ ELIBACC ]
The CDI API library was not initialized.  See \fBcdi_init\fP(3).
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
the file descriptor, \fIfd\fP, supplied does not correspond to a valid CDI
Stream open for reading and writing.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
one or more of the arguments are invalid.
.TP
.RB [ ETIMEDOUT ]
the call timed out awaiting a \fB\)CD_DISABLE_CON\fP(7) or
\fB\)CD_ERROR_ACK\fP(7) primitive.  The default time for which these primitives
are awaited is \fB15000\fP milliseconds (15 seconds).
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
the call was interrupted by a signal before it could complete.
.TP
.RB [ ERESTART ]
the call was interrupted by a signal before it could begin.
.TP
.RB [ ERESTARTSYS ]
See [\fBERESTART\fP].
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
the call was non-blocking and a message was not immediately available or
flow control was in effect.
.TP
.RB [ EBADMSG ]
a message of the incorrect type was waiting on the Stream.
.PP
In addition, any of the error number returned by
.BR cdi_put_proto (3)
or
.BR cdi_wait_ack (3)
can be returned by
.BR cdi_disable_req .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B cdi_disable_req
is a
.IR GCOM -specific
function.  It may be necessary to define the C preprocessor symbol,
.BR _GCOM_SOURCE ,
before including the
.RB < sys/cdi.h >
header file,
to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations necessary
for the use of this function.
It may also be necessary to include the
.RB < cdiapi.h >
header file
to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations necessary
for the use of this function.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/sys/cdi.h
The CDI header file.
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/cdiapi.h
The CDI API Library header file.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libcdiapi.a
The static library containing the
.BR cdi_disable_req
function.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libcdiapi.so
The shared object library containing the
.BR cdi_disable_req
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B cdi_disable_req
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR cdi (7),
.BR cdiapi (3),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B cdi_disable_req
is compatible with the
.I GCOM
CDI API Library,
.[
npiapi
.]
and system providing an interface equivalent to the
.I GCOM
CDI API Library,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B cdi_disable_req
blocks awaiting a response regardless of the blocking or non-blocking flag
settings associated with the open file descriptor.  That is, the function
internally uses
.BR poll (2s).
.IP \(em
.B CDI API Library
functions are
.IR GCOM -specific,
and are provided only for porting
.IR GCOM
software to
.BR Linux .
They are inherently non-portable.  These functions will be avoided by portable
CDI programs.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted, only source compatibility: any binary
compatibility experienced is coincidental and may change on a future release.
It may be necessary to recompile all \fISTREAMS\fP drivers and modules that
share definitions with the CDI API library using
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supplied header files.
.PP
For further compatibility information, see
.BR cdiapi (3),
.BR cdi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
CDI,
.[
cdi revision 0.9.2
.]
and
.I GCOM
CDI API documentation.
.[
cdiapi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Communications Device Interface (CDI),
.[
cdi revision 0.9.2
.]
.BR cdi (7),
was developed by NCR Comten.
.B cdi_disable_req
first appeared in the
.I GCOM
CDI API.
.[
cdiapi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of the
.IR "CDI API Library" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
