'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: dlpi_iftype.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-07-06 14:58:18 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-06 14:58:18 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: dlpi_iftype.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-07-06 14:58:18  brian
.\" - improvements
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-07-01 11:50:54  brian
.\" - added manual pages and library implementation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DLPI_IFTYPE 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 DLPI Library"
.\" =========================================================================
.SH NAME
.B dlpi_iftype
\-  convert \fBdlpi\fP(7) MAC Type to RFC 2863 IANA ifType.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.BR libdlpi (3),
the
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific,
DLPI
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
Library.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/dlpi.h>
.br
.B #include <dlpi.h>
.HP
\fBuint\ dlpi_iftype\fP(\fBuint\fP\ \fImactype\fP);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I mactype
specifies the
.BR dlpi (7)
MAC Type that is to be convered to an IANA ifType.
.[
rfc2863
.]
This may be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBDL_100VGTPR\fP\(em'u
.B DL_CSMACD
IEEE 802.3 CSMA/CD network.
.PD 0
.TP
.B DL_TPB
IEEE 802.4 Token Passing Bus.
.TP
.B DL_TPR
IEEE 802.5 Token Passing Ring.
.TP
.B DL_METRO
IEEE 802.6 Metro Net.
.TP
.B DL_ETHER
Ethernet Bus.
.TP
.B DL_HDLC
ISO HDLC protocol support.
.TP
.B DL_CHAR
Character Synchronous protocol support.
.TP
.B DL_CTCA
IBM Channel-to-Channel Adapter.
.TP
.B DL_FDDI
Fiber Distributed data interface.
.TP
.B DL_FC
Fibre Channel interface.
.TP
.B DL_ATM
ATM.
.TP
.B DL_IPATM
ATM Classical IP interface.
.TP
.B DL_X25
X.25 LAPB interface.
.TP
.B DL_ISDN
ISDN interface.
.TP
.B DL_HIPPI
HIPPI interface.
.TP
.B DL_100VG
100 Based VG Ethernet.
.TP
.B DL_100VGTPR
100 Based VG Token Ring.
.TP
.B DL_ETH_CSMA
ISO 8802/3 and Ethernet.
.TP
.B DL_100BT
100 Base T.
.TP
.B DL_IB
Infiniband.
.TP
.B DL_FRAME
Frame Relay LAPF.
.TP
.B DL_MPFRAME
Multi-protocol over Frame Relay.
.TP
.B DL_ASYNC
Character Asynchronous Protocol.
.TP
.B DL_IPX25
X.25 Classical IP interface.
.TP
.B DL_LOOP
software loopback.
.TP
.B DL_OTHER
Any other medium not listed above.
.TP
.B DL_IPV4
IPv4 Tunnel.
.TP
.B DL_IPV6
IPv6 Tunnel.
.TP
.B DL_VNI
Virtual Network Interface.
.TP
.B DL_WIFI
IEEE 802.11.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B dlpi_iftype
is a DLPI Library
.[
soldoc11
.]
subroutine.
This function simply converts constants from a DLPI MAC Type (as described in
the
.I dl_mac_type
field of the
.BR dl_info_ack_t (7)
structure, or from the
.I dli_mac_type
field of the
.B dlpi_info_t
structure used by the
.BR dlpi_info (3)
library call) to an IANA ifType constant.  Both systems of constants describe
the hardware and media and there is normally a one-to-one equivalent.  This is
a convenience function for user programs written in terms of the IANA ifType
rather than DLPI MAC type.
.PP
Currently the mapping is as follows:
.TS
tab(:);
lllss
lblblss.
MAC Type:IANA ifType:Description
_
DL_CSMACD:iso88023Csmacd(7):T{
IEEE 802.2 CSMA/CD
T}
DL_TPB:iso88024TokenBus(8):T{
IEEE 802.4 Token Passing Bus
T}
DL_TPR:iso88025TokenRing(9):T{
IEEE 802.5 Token Passing Ring
T}
DL_METRO:iso88026Man(10):T{
IEEE 802.6 Metro Net
T}
DL_ETHER:ethernetCsmacd(6):T{
Ethernet Bus
T}
DL_HDLC:hdlc(118):T{
HDLC
T}
DL_CHAR:bsc(83):T{
Character Synchronous
T}
DL_CTCA:ibm370parChan(72):T{
IBM Channel-to-Channel Adapter
T}
DL_FDDI:fddi(15):T{
Fiber Distributed Data Interface
T}
DL_FC:fibreChannel(56):T{
Fibre Channel
T}
DL_ATM:atm(37):T{
ATM
T}
DL_IPATM:ipOverAtm(114):T{
ATM Classical IP
T}
DL_X25:lapb(16):T{
X.25 LAPB
T}
DL_ISDN:lapd(77):T{
ISDN
T}
DL_HIPPI:hippi(47):T{
High Performance Parallel Interface
T}
DL_100VG:ethernetCsmacd(6):T{
100 Base VG Ethernet
T}
DL_100VGTPR:iso88025TokenRing(9):T{
100 Base VG Token Ring
T}
DL_ETH_CSMA:ethernetCsmacd(6):T{
ISO 8802/3 and Ethernet
T}
DL_100BT:ethernetCsmacd(6):T{
100 Base T Ethernet
T}
DL_IB:infiniband(199):T{
Infiniband
T}
DL_FRAME:lapf(119):T{
Frame Relay LAPF
T}
DL_MPFRAME:frameRelayMPI(92):T{
Multi-Protocol over Frame Relay
T}
DL_ASYNC:async(84):T{
Character Asynchronous Protocol
T}
DL_IPX25:rfc877x25(5):T{
X.25 Classical IP
T}
DL_LOOP:softwareLoopback(24):T{
Software Loopback
T}
DL_OTHER:other(1):T{
Any other Medium
T}
DL_IPV4:tunnel(136):T{
IPv4 Tunnel
T}
DL_IPV6:tunnel(136):T{
IPv6 Tunnel
T}
DL_VNI:l2vlan(135):T{
Virtual Network Interface
T}
DL_WIFI:ieee80211(71):T{
IEEE 802.11
T}
\fRAny Other\fP:0:T{
Unknown
T}
_
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
To use the
.B dlpi_iftype
function, include
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
and
.RB < dlpi.h >
header files in C language programs.
Add the
.RB ` -ldlpi '
flag to the linker command when linking C language programs that use the
.B dlpi_iftype
function or include the
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.a
static library object as an target of the linking.
.PP
Although a data link need not be opened before calling this function, it is
useful for converting the MAC type returned in the information for a specific
link to the IANA ifType.
.[
rfc2863
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
.B dlpi_iftype
is fully thread-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.B dlpi_iftype
is successful, it returns zero (0) or a positive integer value.
When
.B dlpi_iftype
fails, it returns a negative integer value (-1).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.B dlpi_iftype
fails, it returns a negative integer value (-1).
.B dlpi_iftype
may fail when:
.TP \w'[\fBENOMEM\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ EBADF ]
the file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
supplied does not correspond to a valid DLPI Stream open for reading and
writing.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
one of the arguments supplied was invalid.
.PP
In addition, any of the error numbers returned by
.BR putmsg (2s),
.BR getmsg (2s),
.BR open (2s),
.BR close (2s),
.BR ioctl (2s)
may also be returned by
.BR dlpi_iftype .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B dlpi_iftype
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function.  It may be necessary to define the C preprocessor symbol,
.BR _SUN_SOURCE ,
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file, to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations
necessary for the use of this function.
It may also be necessary to include the
.RB < dlpi.h >
header file
to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations necessary
for the use of this function.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/sys/dlpi.h
The DLPI header file.
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/dlpi.h
The DLPI Library header file.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.a
The static library containing the
.BR dlpi_iftype
function.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.so
The shared object library containing the
.BR dlpi_iftype
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR OpenSS7 ,
.B dlpi_iftype
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR dlpi_arptype (3),
.BR dlpi_mactype (3),
.BR dlpi_info (3),
.BR dlpi (3),
.BR dlpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B dlpi_iftype
is compatible with the
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library,
.[
soldoc11
.]
and systems providing an interface equivalent to
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
DLPI Library returns more IANA ifTypes for more DLPI MAC Types than
.IR Solaris \(rg.
In fact, all type are represented in
.BR OpenSS7 ,
while only a handful are represented in
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.IP \(em
.B DLPI Library
functions are
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific,
and are provided only for porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
applications programs, drivers and modules to
.BR Linux .
They are inherently non-portable.  These functions will be avoided by portable
DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted, only source compatibility: any binary
compatibility experienced is coincidental and may change on a future release.
It may be necessary to recompile all \fISTREAMS\fP drivers and modules that
share definitions with the DLPI API library using
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supplied header files.
.PP
For further compatibility information, see
.BR dlpi (3),
.BR dlpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
RFC 2863,
.[
rfc2863
.]
DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI documentation.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.B dlpi_iftype
first appeared in the
.IR Solaris "\(rg " 11 .
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of the
.IR "DLPI Library" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
