'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: dlpi_open.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008/07/08 16:57:19 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008/07/08 16:57:19 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: dlpi_open.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008/07/08 16:57:19  brian
.\" - updated libraries and manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-07-01 11:50:54  brian
.\" - added manual pages and library implementation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DLPI_OPEN 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 DLPI Library"
.\" =========================================================================
.SH NAME
.B dlpi_open
\- open a new DLPI Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.BR libdlpi (3),
the
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific,
DLPI
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
Library.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.PP
For the \fIGCOM\fP DLPI API Library version of the function of the same name,
see
.BR dlpi_open_GCOM (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.nh
.PP
.B #include <sys/dlpi.h>
.br
.B #include <dlpi.h>
.HP \w'\fBint\ dlpi_open\fP('u
\fBint\ dlpi_open\fP(\fBconst\ char\ *\fP\fIlinkname\fP, \fBdlpi_handle_t\ *\fP\fIdhp\fP, \fBuint\fP\ \fIflags\fP);
.ad b
.hy
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I linkname
the link to open.
.TP
.I dhp
the handle for the Stream (returned value).
.TP
.I flags
flags to the open call.  The flags may be a bitwise OR of zero ore more of the
following flags:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBDLPI_NOATTACH\fP\(em'u
.B DLPI_DEVONLY
the device only is opened, no modules are pushed.
.PD 0
.TP
.B DLPI_SERIAL
perform attach on serial Style 2 stream.
.TP
.B DLPI_NOATTACH
do not perform attach on Style 2 stream.
.TP
.B DLPI_RAW
set the DLPI stream for raw mode operation.
.TP
.B DLPI_PASSIVE
set the DLPI stream for passive mode operation.
.TP
.B DLPI_NATIVE
set the DLPI stream for native mode operation.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B dlpi_open
is a DLPI Library
.[
soldoc11
.]
subroutine.
The
.B dlpi_open
library subroutine
opens a new DLPI Stream and prepares the Stream for use by moving the Stream to
the
.B DL_UNBOUND
state.
.PP
The \fIlinkname\fP argument specifies the string that corresponds to the
\fBLinux\fP system device name: e.g., \fB\*(lqeth0\*(rq\fP.  The library
subroutine call determines the device name and other particulars necessary to
open and attach the DLPI Stream, moving it to the \fBDL_UNBOUND\fP state.
.PP
To avoid mapping file descriptors to associated user-space data structures, the
.B dlpi_open
call returns a data link handle into the area pointed to by the \fIdhp\fP
argument to the call.  This data link handle can be used for subsequent calls
referencing the Stream.  The actual file descriptor associated with the open
Stream can be obtained using the
.BR dlpi_fd (3)
DLPI library call.
.PP
The \fIflags\fP argument to the call provides some flags that control the mode
of the DLPI Stream that remain in effect for the duration that the Stream
remains open.  These flags are as follows:
.TP
.B DLPI_RAW
sets raw mode of operation.  The raw mode of operation is invoked on the Stream
with the
.BR DLIOCRAW
input-output control described in
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4).
The
.BR DLIOCRAW
command puts the stream into a raw mode, which, upon receive, causes the full
MAC-level packet to be sent upstream in an
.BR M_DATA (9)
message instead of it being transformed into the
.BR DL_UNITDATA_IND (7)
form normally used for reporting incoming packets in accordance with the DLPI
specification.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
Packet SAP filtering is still performed on Streams that are in raw mode.  If a
Stream user wants to receive all incoming packets it must also select the
appropriate promiscuous modesl using the
.BR dlpi_promiscon (3)
library call.  After successfully selecting raw mode, the application is also
allowed to sen fully formatted packets to the driver as
.BR M_DATA (9)
messages for transmission.  Once enabled, the Stream remains in this mode until
closed.
.TP
.B DLPI_NATIVE
sets the native mode of operation.  The native mode of operation is invoked on
the Stream with the
.BR DLIOCNATIVE
input-output control described in
.BR dlpi_ioctl (4).
Some DLPI providers may be able to represent their link layer using more than
one link layer format.  In this case, the default link layer format may
minimize impact to applications, but may not allow truly native link layer
headers to be sent or received.  DLS users who wish to use the native link
layer format can use
.BR DLIOCNATIVE
to transition the Stream.
.BR DLIOCNATIVE
returns the DLPI MAC Type associated with the new link-layer format.  Once
enabled, the Stream remains in this mode until closed.  Note that
.BR DLIOCNATIVE
does not enable transition between dissimilar DLPI MAC types and (aside from
the link layer format), the new DLPI MAC type is guaranteed to be semantically
identical.  In particular, the SAP space and addressing format are not affected
and the effect of
.BR DLIOCNATIVE
is only visible when in raw mode, though any subsequent
.BR dlpi_info (3)
requests generate a response with \fIdli_mac_type\fP set to the native DLPI
type.
.TP
.B DLPI_PASSIVE
sets the passive mode of operation.  The passive mode of operation is invoked
on the Stream with the
.BR DL_PASSIVE_REQ (7)
extension primitive.
This mode requests that the DLS provider Stream be permitted access to
individual data link that are part of an aggregate.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
To use the
.B dlpi_open
function, include
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
and
.RB < dlpi.h >
header files in C language programs.
Add the
.RB ` -ldlpi '
flag to the linker command when linking C language programs that use the
.B dlpi_open
function or include the
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.a
static library object as an target of the linking.
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
.B dlpi_open
is fully thread-safe.
What is described as global variables are in fact thread-specific data when
linked with
.BR libpthread .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.B dlpi_open
is successful, it returns \fBDLPI_SUCCESS\fP.
When
.B dlpi_open
fails, it returns an error code
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.B dlpi_open
fails, it returns a error code.
.B dlpi_open
may fail when:
.PP
The following DLPI Library errors occur:
.TP 12
.RB [ DLPI_EBADLINK ]
The \fIlinkname\fP argument specifies a bad DLPI link.
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_ELINKNAMEINVAL ]
The \fIlinkname\fP is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_ENOLINK ]
The \fIlinkname\fP argument specifies a non-existent link.
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_ERAWNOTSUP ]
The \fIflags\fP argument specified \fBDLPI_RAW\fP but raw mode is not supported
by the driver.
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_ETIMEDOUT ]
A DLPI operation timed out waiting for an expected primitive sequence.
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_FAILURE ]
The DLPI operation failed.
.PP
The following DLPI errors occur:
.TP 12
.RB [ DL_ACCESS ]
The DLS user did not have proper permission ot use the requested Physical Point
of Attachment.
.TP
.RB [ DL_BADPPA ]
The specific Physical Point of Attachment is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ DL_OUTSTATE ]
A primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ DL_INITFAILED ]
Automatic initialization of the Physical Point of Attachment failed.
.TP
.RB [ DL_NOTINIT ]
The Physical Point of Attachment had not been initiatlized prior to attachment.
.TP
.RB [ DL_SYSERR ]
A system error has occured and the Linux system error is contained in the
.IR errno (3)
global error variable.
.PP
The following system errors occur:
.TP 12
.RB [ EPERM ]
Fine-grained permission for the request is incorrect.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
Insufficient memory was immediately available to satisfy the request.
.TP
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
Insufficient buffers were immediately available to satisfy the request.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
Insufficient \fISTREAMS\fP resources were available to satisfy the request.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
A temporary failure occured and the DLS user should reissue the request.
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
THe control information in the request has already been subjected to the
control request or a transient condition prevented the request.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
On of the parameters of the requst for which there is no prescribed error code
has an invalid value.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTSUP ]
The request is recognized by not supported.
.TP
.RB [ ENOLINK ]
The interface, Physical Point of Attachment, or underlying driver or device, is
not connected.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
Invalid device.  The interface, Physical Point of Attachment, or underlying
driver or device is no longer installed on the system.
.PP
In addition, any of the error numbers returned by
.BR open (2s),
.BR putmsg (2s),
.BR getmsg (2s),
.BR ioctl (2s)
may also be returned by
.BR dlpi_open .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B dlpi_open
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function.  It may be necessary to define the C preprocessor symbol,
.BR _SUN_SOURCE ,
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file, to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations
necessary for the use of this function.
It may also be necessary to include the
.RB < dlpi.h >
header file
to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations necessary
for the use of this function.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/sys/dlpi.h
The DLPI header file.
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/dlpi.h
The DLPI Library header file.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.a
The static library containing the
.BR dlpi_open
function.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.so
The shared object library containing the
.BR dlpi_open
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B dlpi_open
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi (3),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B dlpi_open
is compatible with the
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library,
.[
soldoc11
.]
and systems providing an interface equivalent to
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The \fISolaris\fP\(rg version of the DLPI library uses the link name,
\fIlinkname\fP, to search the \fB/dev\fP directory for a suitable Style 1 or
Style 2 device.
.RS
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
uses a slightly different approach based on the fact that the underlying system
is a \fBLinux\fP networking system where device drivers have assigned device
names outside the namespace of the \fB/dev\fP directory.
Under the
.B OpenSS7
DLPI library, the link name, \fIlinkname\fP, is used as a \fBLinux\fP device
name.  For example, the \fIlinkname\fP may be specified as \fB\*(lqeth0\*(rq\fP.
.RE
.IP \(em
The \fBDLPI_DEVONLY\fP and \fBDLPI_SERIAL\fP flags are undocumented in the
\fISolaris\fP\(rg DLPI Library.  They should not even be used by
\fISolaris\fP\(rg programs.
.IP \(em
.B DLPI Library
functions are
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific,
and are provided only for porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
applications programs, drivers and modules to
.BR Linux .
They are inherently non-portable.  These functions will be avoided by portable
DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted, only source compatibility: any binary
compatibility experienced is coincidental and may change on a future release.
It may be necessary to recompile all \fISTREAMS\fP drivers and modules that
share definitions with the DLPI API library using
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supplied header files.
.PP
For further compatibility information, see
.BR dlpi (3),
.BR dlpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI documentation.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.B dlpi_open
first appeared in the
.IR Solaris "\(rg " 11 .
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of the
.IR "DLPI Library" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
