'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: dlpi_enabnotify.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-07-06 14:58:18 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-06 14:58:18 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: dlpi_enabnotify.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-07-06 14:58:18  brian
.\" - improvements
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-07-01 11:50:54  brian
.\" - added manual pages and library implementation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DLPI_ENABNOTIFY 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 DLPI Library"
.\" =========================================================================
.SH NAME
.B dlpi_enabnotify
\- enable notifications.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.BR libdlpi (3),
the
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific,
DLPI
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
Library.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.nh
.PP
.B #include <sys/dlpi.h>
.br
.B #include <dlpi.h>
.HP
\fBtypedef void dlpi_notifyfunc_t\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP, \fBdlpi_notifyinfo_t *\fP, \fBvoid *\fP);
.HP \w'\fBint\ dlpi_enabnotify\fP('u
\fBint\ dlpi_enabnotify\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP, \fBuint\fP\ \fInotes\fP, \fBdlpi_notifyfunc_t\ *\fIfuncp\fP, \fBvoid\ *\fP\fIarg\fP, \fBdlpi_notifyid_t\ *\fP\fIidp\fP);
.ad b
.hy
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fIfuncp\fP\(em'u
.I dh
the handle for the Stream.
.PD 0
.TP
.I notes
the notifications.
.TP
.I funcp
the callback function.
.TP
.I arg
the client argument for the callback function.
.TP
.I jdp
the returned notification identifier.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH STRUCTURES
.PP
The second argument to the callback function, \fIfuncp\fP, is a pointer to a
\fBdlpi_notifyinfo_t\fP structure.  This structure contains information about an
event for which notification is given.
.PP
The \fBdlpi_notifyinfo_t\fP structure is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    uint dni_note;
    union {
        uint dni_speed;
        uint dni_size;
        struct {
            uchar dni_physaddr[DLPI_PHYSADDR_MAX];
            uchar dni_physaddrlen;
        };
    };
} dlpi_notifyinfo_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The \fBdlpi_notifyinfo_t\fP structure has the following members:
.TP
.I dni_note
Identifiies the event generating notification.  This may be one of:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBDL_NOTE_PROMISC_OFF_PHYS\fP\(em'u
.B DL_NOTE_LINK_UP
link has come up;
.PD 0
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_LINK_DOWN
link has gone down;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_PROMISC_ON_PHYS
physical promiscuous mode set;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_PROMISC_OFF_PHYS
physical promiscuous mode clear;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_SDU_SIZE
maximum SDU size, \fIdni_size\fP, changed or available;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_SPEED
link speed, \fIdni_speed\fP, changed or available;
.TP
.B DL_NOTE_PHYS_ADDR
physical address, \fIdni_physaddr\fP(\fIlen\fP), changed or available;
.PD
.\".TP
.\".B DL_NOTE_AGGR_AVAIL
.\"link aggregation available, see
.\".RI \*(lq COMPATIBILITY \*(rq;
.\".PD 0
.\".TP
.\".B DL_NOTE_AGGR_UNAVAIL
.\"link aggregation unavailable, see
.\".RI \*(lq COMPATIBILITY \*(rq;
.\".TP
.\".B DL_NOTE_FASTPATH_FLUSH
.\"fast path information changed; see,
.\".RI \*(lq COMPATIBILITY \*(rq;
.\".TP
.\".B DL_NOTE_CAPAB_RENEG
.\"capabilities renegotiated, see
.\".RI \*(lq COMPATIBILITY \*(rq.
.\".PD
.RE
.TP
.I dni_speed
only significant when \fIdni_note\fP is \fBDL_NOTE_SPEED\fP:
the current speed of the interface in kilobits per second.
.TP
.I dni_size
only significant when \fIdni_note\fP is \fBDL_NOTE_SDU_SIZE\fP:
the current maximum SDU size of the interface in octets.
.TP
.I dni_physaddr
only significant when \fIdni_note\fP is \fBDL_NOTE_PHYS_ADDR\fP:
the current physical address binary coded.
.TP
.I dni_physaddrlen
only significant when \fIdni_note\fP is \fBDL_NOTE_PHYS_ADDR\fP:
the length of the current physical address in bytes.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B dlpi_enabnotify
is a DLPI Library
.[
soldoc11
.]
subroutine requests that the DLS provider register the notifications specified
in \fInotes\fP and call back the specified callback function, \fIfuncp\fP with
the DLPI handle, \fIdh\fP, notification information, and client argument,
\fIarg\fP, when an event occurs for which notification is registered.
.PP
When successful, \fBdlpi_enabnotify\fP will return a handle to the area pointed
to by \fIidp\fP that may be used in a subsequent call to \fBdlpi_disabnotify\fP
to de-register the notification.
Note that \fBdlpi_notifyid_t\fP is opaque to the DLPI library user, but can be
treated as a \fB(void *)\fP type.
.PP
The callback function, \fIfuncp\fP, is called with the DLPI handle, \fIdh\fP,
the client-supplied argument, \fIarg\fP, and a pointer to a
\fBdlpi_notifyinfo_t\fP structure describing each notification.  The callback
function will be invoked until the DLPI Stream is closed, or the
\fBdlpi_disabnotify\fP(3) function is invoked to disable the callback.
.PP
Multiple callback functions can be registered for a given notification on a DLPI
Stream.  Callback functions can be registered and deregistered in any order.
When invoked due to the occurence of an event, the most recently registered
callback function will be invoked first.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
To use the
.B dlpi_enabnotify
function, include
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
and
.RB < dlpi.h >
header files in C language programs.
Add the
.RB ` -ldlpi '
flag to the linker command when linking C language programs that use the
.B dlpi_enabnotify
function or include the
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.a
static library object as an target of the linking.
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
.B dlpi_enabnotify
is fully thread-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.B dlpi_enabnotify
is successful, it returns \fBDLPI_SUCCESS\fP, and the handle for the
notification in the area pointed to by \fIidp\fP.
When
.B dlpi_enabnotify
fails, it returns a DLPI or DLPI Library error code.  When the DLPI error code
is \fBDL_SYSERR\fP, the error is contained in the \fIerrno\fP(3) global
variable.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.B dlpi_enabnotify
fails, it returns a DLPI, DLPI Library or system error code.
.B dlpi_enabnotify
may fail when:
.PP
The following DLPI Library errors occur:
.TP \w'[\fBDLPI_ENOTEIDINVAL\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ DLPI_EINHANDLE ]
The DLPI handle, \fIdh\fP, is not a valid data link handle.
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_EINVAL ]
The \fIfuncp\fP, \fIarg\fP or \fIidp\fP argument is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_ENOTEIDINVAL ]
The \fInotes\fP argument is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_ENOTENOTSUP ]
DLPI notifications are not supported by the link.
.\".TP
.\".RB [ DLPI_EBADMSG ]
.\"Received a bad or unexpected DLPI message.
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_ETIMEDOUT ]
The operation timed out awaiting an acknowledgement.
.PD
.PP
The following DLPI errors occur:
.TP \w'[\fBDLPI_ENOTEIDINVAL\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ DL_ACCESS ]
The DLS user did not have proper permission to make the request.
.PD 0
.\".TP
.\".RB [ DL_OUTSTATE ]
.\"The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ DL_BADPRIM ]
The DLS provider does not recognize \fB\)DL_NOTIFY_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
.RB [ DL_NOTSUPPORTED ]
The DLS provider recognizes, but does support, \fB\)DL_NOTIFY_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
.RB [ DL_SYSERR ]
A system error occurred and the \fBLinux\fP system error code is in the
\fIerrno\fP(3) global variable.
.PD
.PP
The following \fBLinux\fP system errors occur:
.TP \w'[\fBDLPI_ENOTEIDINVAL\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ EPERM ]
Fine-grained permission for the request is incorrect.
.PD 0
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
Insufficient memory was immediately available to satisfy the request.
.TP
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
Insufficient buffers were immediately available to satisfy the request.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
Insufficient \fISTREAMS\fP resources were available to satisfy the request.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
A temporary failure occured and the DLS user should reissue the request.
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
The control information in the request has already been subjected to the
control request or a transient condition prevented the request.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
On of the parameters of the requst for which there is no prescribed error code
has an invalid value.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTSUP ]
The request is recognized by not supported.
.TP
.RB [ ENOLINK ]
The interface, Physical Point of Attachment, or underlying driver or device, is
not connected.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
Invalid device.  The interface, Physical Point of Attachment, or underlying
driver or device is no longer installed on the system.
.PD
.PP
In addition, any of the error numbers returned by
.BR putmsg (2s)
or
.BR getmsg (2s)
may also be returned in \fIerrno\fP(3) when
.B dlpi_enabnotify
returns \fBDL_SYSERR\fP.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B dlpi_enabnotify
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function.  It may be necessary to define the C preprocessor symbol,
.BR _SUN_SOURCE ,
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file, to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations
necessary for the use of this function.
It may also be necessary to include the
.RB < dlpi.h >
header file
to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations necessary
for the use of this function.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/sys/dlpi.h
The DLPI header file.
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/dlpi.h
The DLPI Library header file.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.a
The static library containing the
.BR dlpi_enabnotify
function.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.so
The shared object library containing the
.BR dlpi_enabnotify
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B dlpi_enabnotify
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR dlpi_disabnotify (3),
.BR DL_NOTIFY_REQ (7),
.BR dlpi (3),
.BR dlpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B dlpi_enabnotify
is compatible with the
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library,
.[
soldoc11
.]
and systems providing an interface equivalent to
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.B dlpi_enabnotify
function relies upon support for the
.BR DL_NOTIFY_REQ (7)
primitive, which is not part of the DLPI standard.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
It should, therefore, not be used by portable DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
does not document values of the \fInotes\fP argument:
.BR DL_NOTE_AGGR_AVAIL ,
.BR DL_NOTE_AGGR_UNAVAIL ,
.B DL_NOTE_FASTPATH_FLUSH
and
.BR DL_NOTE_CAPAB_RENEG .
These values should not be used by even
.IR Solaris \(rg
programs.  Link aggregation and IP fast path are not necessarily supported by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
drivers, modules, libraries and programs.
.IP \(em
.B DLPI Library
functions are
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific,
and are provided only for porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
applications programs, drivers and modules to
.BR Linux .
They are inherently non-portable.  These functions will be avoided by portable
DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted, only source compatibility: any binary
compatibility experienced is coincidental and may change on a future release.
It may be necessary to recompile all \fISTREAMS\fP drivers and modules that
share definitions with the DLPI API library using
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supplied header files.
.PP
For further compatibility information, see
.BR dlpi (3),
.BR dlpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI documentation.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.B dlpi_enabnotify
first appeared in the
.IR Solaris "\(rg " 11 .
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of the
.IR "DLPI Library" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
