'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: dlpi_bind.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-07-01 11:50:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-01 11:50:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: dlpi_bind.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-07-01 11:50:53  brian
.\" - added manual pages and library implementation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DLPI_BIND 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 DLPI Library"
.\" =========================================================================
.SH NAME
.B dlpi_bind
\- bind a DLPI Stream to a DLSAP.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.BR libdlpi (3),
the
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific,
DLPI
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
Library.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.nh
.PP
.B #include <sys/dlpi.h>
.br
.B #include <dlpi.h>
.HP \w'\fBint\ dlpi_bind\fP('u
\fBint\ dlpi_bind\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP, \fBuint\fP\ \fIsap\fP, \fBuint\ *\fP\fIboundsap\fP);
.ad b
.hy
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fIboundsap\fP\(em'u
.I dh
the handle for the Stream.
.PD 0
.TP
.I sap
the DLSAP to bind.
.TP
.I boundsap
the bound DLSAP (returned when non-NULL).
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B dlpi_bind
is a DLPI Library
.[
soldoc11
.]
subroutine.
This function binds the Stream indicated by the data link handle, \fIdh\fP, to
the DLSAP specified in the \fIsap\fP argument.  The \fIsap\fP argument may
contain the special value \fBDLPI_ANY_SAP\fP, in which case the DLPI library
will choose a DLSAP to which to bind based on the MAC Type.  When the
\fIboundsap\fP argument is non-NULL, the function, upon success, will return
the actual bound DLSAP in the pointed to unsigned integer extent.
.PP
This function is only valid in the \fBDL_UNBOUND\fP state.  Upon succesful
completion, the new state is \fBDL_IDLE\fP.
.PP
Note that the \fISolaris\fP\(rg version of this function always binds for
connectionless mode data link service \fBDL_CLDLS\fP, with a maximum number of
connection indications of zero (0) and no automatic response for XID or TEST.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
To use the
.B dlpi_bind
function, include
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
and
.RB < dlpi.h >
header files in C language programs.
Add the
.RB ` -ldlpi '
flag to the linker command when linking C language programs that use the
.B dlpi_bind
function or include the
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.a
static library object as an target of the linking.
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
.B dlpi_bind
is fully thread-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.B dlpi_bind
is successful, it returns \fBDLPI_SUCCESS\fP.
When
.B dlpi_bind
fails, it returns a DLPI or DLPI Library error code.  When the DLPI error code
is \fBDL_SYSERR\fP, the error is contained in the
.IR errno (3)
global variable.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.B dlpi_bind
fails, it returns a DLPI, DLPI Library or system error code.
.B dlpi_bind
may fail when:
.PP
The following are DLPI Library errors:
.\".TP \w'[\fBDLPI_EUNAVAILSAP\fP]\(em'u
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_EBADMSG ]
Received a bad or unexpected DLPI message.
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_EINHANDLE ]
The DLPI handle, \fIdh\fP, is not a valid data link handle.
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_ETIMEDOUT ]
The operation timed out.
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_EUNAVAILSAP ]
The DLPI SAP specified, \fIsap\fP, is unavailable.
.PP
The following are DLPI errors:
.\".TP \w'[\fBDLPI_EUNAVAILSAP\fP]\(em'u
.TP
.RB [ DL_ACCESS ]
The DLS user did not have proper permission to use the requested DLSAP address.
.TP
.RB [ DL_BADADDR ]
The DLSAP address information was invalid or was in an incorrect format.
.TP
.RB [ DL_BOUND ]
The DLS user attempted to bind a second Stream to a DLSAP with
\fIdl_max_conind\fP greater than zero, or the DLS user attempted ot bind a
second \*(lqconnection management\*(rq Stream to a PPA.
.TP
.RB [ DL_INITFAILED ]
Automatic initialization of the PPA failed.
.TP
.RB [ DL_NOTINIT ]
The PPA had not been inititialized prior to this request.
.TP
.RB [ DL_NOADDR ]
The DLS provider could not allocate a DLSAP address for this Stream.
.TP
.RB [ DL_NOAUTO ]
Automatic handling of XID and TEST responses not supported.
.TP
.RB [ DL_NOTESTAUTO ]
Automatic handling of TEST response not supported.
.TP
.RB [ DL_NOXIDAUTO ]
Automatic handling of XID response not supported.
.TP
.RB [ DL_OUTSTATE ]
The primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ DL_UNSUPPORTED ]
The DLS provider does not support the requested service mode on this Stream.
.TP
.RB [ DL_SYSERR ]
A system error has occurred and the Linux system error code is indicated in the
.IR errno (3)
global variable.
.PP
The following are Linux system errors:
.TP 12
.RB [ EPERM ]
Fine-grained permission for the request is incorrect.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
Insufficient memory was immediately available to satisfy the request.
.TP
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
Insufficient buffers were immediately available to satisfy the request.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
Insufficient \fISTREAMS\fP resources were available to satisfy the request.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
A temporary failure occured and the DLS user should reissue the request.
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
THe control information in the request has already been subjected to the
control request or a transient condition prevented the request.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
On of the parameters of the requst for which there is no prescribed error code
has an invalid value.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTSUP ]
The request is recognized by not supported.
.TP
.RB [ ENOLINK ]
The interface, Physical Point of Attachment, or underlying driver or device, is
not connected.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
Invalid device.  The interface, Physical Point of Attachment, or underlying
driver or device is no longer installed on the system.
.PP
In addition, any of the error numbers returned by
.BR putmsg (2s),
.BR getmsg (2s),
.BR ioctl (2s)
may also be returned in \fIerrno\fP(3) when
.B dlpi_bind
returns \fBDL_SYSERR\fP.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B dlpi_bind
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function.  It may be necessary to define the C preprocessor symbol,
.BR _SUN_SOURCE ,
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file, to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations
necessary for the use of this function.
It may also be necessary to include the
.RB < dlpi.h >
header file
to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations necessary
for the use of this function.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/sys/dlpi.h
The DLPI header file.
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/dlpi.h
The DLPI Library header file.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.a
The static library containing the
.BR dlpi_bind
function.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.so
The shared object library containing the
.BR dlpi_bind
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B dlpi_bind
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi (3),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B dlpi_bind
is compatible with the
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library,
.[
soldoc11
.]
and systems providing an interface equivalent to
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The \fISolaris\fP\(rg DLPI Library only supports connectionless mode data link
service and does not support automatic response to XID or TEST.
The \fBOpenSS7\fP DLPI Library, on the other hand, will invoke automatic
response to XID and TEST if the DLS provider supports it.
.IP \(em
.B DLPI Library
functions are
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific,
and are provided only for porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
applications programs, drivers and modules to
.BR Linux .
They are inherently non-portable.  These functions will be avoided by portable
DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted, only source compatibility: any binary
compatibility experienced is coincidental and may change on a future release.
It may be necessary to recompile all \fISTREAMS\fP drivers and modules that
share definitions with the DLPI API library using
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supplied header files.
.PP
For further compatibility information, see
.BR dlpi (3),
.BR dlpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI documentation.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.B dlpi_bind
first appeared in the
.IR Solaris "\(rg " 11 .
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of the
.IR "DLPI Library" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
