'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: dlpi_info.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-07-01 11:50:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-01 11:50:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: dlpi_info.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-07-01 11:50:54  brian
.\" - added manual pages and library implementation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DLPI_INFO 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 DLPI Library"
.\" =========================================================================
.SH NAME
.B dlpi_info
\- obtain information for a DLPI Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.BR libdlpi (3),
the
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific,
DLPI
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
Library.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.nh
.PP
.B #include <sys/dlpi.h>
.br
.B #include <dlpi.h>
.HP \w'\fBint\ dlpi_info\fP('u
\fBint\ dlpi_info\fP(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fP\ \fIdh\fP, \fBdlpi_info_t\ *\fP\fIinfop\fP, \fBuint\fP\ \fIoptions\fP);
.ad b
.hy
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fIoptions\fP\(em'u
.I dh
the handle for the Stream.
.PD 0
.TP
.I infop
pointer to returned DLPI information structure.
.TP
.I options
unused, must be set to zero (0).
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH STRUCTURES
.PP
When the \fIinfop\fP argument is non-\fBNULL\fP, and upon successful returned,
the \fBdlpi_info_t\fP structure pointed to by the argument is completed with
information from the DLS provider.
.PP
The \fBdlpi_info_t\fP structure is formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\f(CW\s-1\
typedef struct {
    dl_ulong di_opts;
    dl_ulong di_max_sdu;
    dl_ulong di_min_sdu;
    dl_ulong di_state;
    dl_ulong di_mactype;
    char di_linkname[DLPI_LINKNAME_MAX];
    dl_uchar di_physaddr[DLPI_PHYSADDR_MAX];
    dl_uchar di_physaddrlen;
    dl_uchar di_bcastaddr[DLPI_PHYSADDR_MAX];
    dl_uchar di_bcastaddrlen;
    dl_ulong di_sap;
    dl_long di_timeout;
    dl_qos_cl_sel1_t di_qos_sel;
    dl_qos_cl_range1_t di_qos_range;
} dlpi_info_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The \fBdlpi_info_t\fP structure has the following members:
.TP
.I di_opts
reserved for future use.
.TP
.I di_max_sdu
indicates the maximum size of a DLSDU.  This is the maximum number of bytes
that may be transmitted in a DLSDU.  This value is a positive integer that is
greater than or equal to \fIdi_min_sdu\fP.
.TP
.I di_min_sdu
indicates the minimum size of a DLSDU.  This is the minimum number of bytes
that may be transmitted in a DLSDU.  The value is never less than one.
.TP
.I di_state
indicates the state of the DLS provider.  Possible values are:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBDL_USER_RESET_PENDING\fP\(em'u
.B DL_UNATTACHED
PPA not attached.
.PD 0
.TP
.B DL_ATTACH_PENDING
Waiting ack of DL_ATTACH_REQ.
.TP
.B DL_DETACH_PENDING
Waiting ack of DL_DETACH_REQ.
.TP
.B DL_UNBOUND
PPA attached.
.TP
.B DL_BIND_PENDING
Waiting ack of DL_BIND_REQ.
.TP
.B DL_UNBIND_PENDING
Waiting ack of DL_UNBIND_REQ.
.TP
.B DL_IDLE
dlsap bound, awaiting use.
.TP
.B DL_UDQOS_PENDING
Waiting ack of DL_UDQOS_REQ.
.\".TP
.\".B DL_OUTCON_PENDING
.\"awaiting DL_CONN_CON.
.\".TP
.\".B DL_INCON_PENDING
.\"awaiting DL_CONN_RES.
.\".TP
.\".B DL_CONN_RES_PENDING
.\"Waiting ack of DL_CONNECT_RES.
.\".TP
.\".B DL_DATAXFER
.\"connection-oriented data transfer.
.\".TP
.\".B DL_USER_RESET_PENDING
.\"awaiting DL_RESET_CON.
.\".TP
.\".B DL_PROV_RESET_PENDING
.\"awaiting DL_RESET_RES.
.\".TP
.\".B DL_RESET_RES_PENDING
.\"Waiting ack of DL_RESET_RES.
.\".TP
.\".B DL_DISCON8_PENDING
.\"Waiting ack of DL_DISC_REQ.
.\".TP
.\".B DL_DISCON9_PENDING
.\"Waiting ack of DL_DISC_REQ.
.\".TP
.\".B DL_DISCON11_PENDING
.\"Waiting ack of DL_DISC_REQ.
.\".TP
.\".B DL_DISCON12_PENDING
.\"Waiting ack of DL_DISC_REQ.
.\".TP
.\".B DL_DISCON13_PENDING
.\"Waiting ack of DL_DISC_REQ.
.\".TP
.\".B DL_SUBS_BIND_PND
.\"Waiting ack of DL_SUBS_BIND_REQ.
.\".TP
.\".B DL_SUBS_UNBIND_PND
.\"Waiting ack of DL_SUBS_UNBIND_REQ.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I di_mactype
indicates the MAC Type of the DLS provider.  This is the type of medium
supported by this DLPI Stream.  Possible values are:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBDL_ETH_CSMA\fP\(em'u
.B DL_CSMACD
IEEE 802.3 CSMA/CD network.
.PD 0
.TP
.B DL_TPB
IEEE 802.4 Token Passing Bus.
.TP
.B DL_TPR
IEEE 802.5 Token Passing Ring.
.TP
.B DL_METRO
IEEE 802.6 Metro Net.
.TP
.B DL_ETHER
Ethernet Bus.
.TP
.B DL_HDLC
ISO HDLC protocol support.
.TP
.B DL_CHAR
Character Synchronous protocol support.
.TP
.B DL_CTCA
IBM Channel-to-Channel Adapter.
.TP
.B DL_FDDI
Fiber Distributed data interface.
.TP
.B DL_FC
Fibre Channel interface.
.TP
.B DL_ATM
ATM.
.TP
.B DL_IPATM
ATM Classical IP interface.
.TP
.B DL_X25
X.25 LAPB interface.
.TP
.B DL_ISDN
ISDN interface.
.TP
.B DL_HIPPI
HIPPI interface.
.TP
.B DL_100VG
100 Based VG Ethernet.
.TP
.B DL_100VGTPR
100 Based VG Token Ring.
.TP
.B DL_ETH_CSMA
ISO 8802/3 and Ethernet.
.TP
.B DL_100BT
100 Base T.
.TP
.B DL_IB
Infiniband.
.TP
.B DL_FRAME
Frame Relay LAPF.
.TP
.B DL_MPFRAME
Multi-protocol over Frame Relay.
.TP
.B DL_ASYNC
Character Asynchronous Protocol.
.TP
.B DL_IPX25
X.25 Classical IP interface.
.TP
.B DL_LOOP
software loopback.
.TP
.B DL_OTHER
Any other medium not listed above.
.TP
.B DL_IPV4
IPv4 Tunnel.
.TP
.B DL_IPV6
IPv4 Tunnel.
.TP
.B DL_VNI
Virtual Network Interface.
.TP
.B DL_WIFI
IEEE 802.11.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I di_linkname
indicates the linkname used to open the DLS provider Stream.  This member
contains the string that was passed as the \fIlinkname\fP argument to
.BR dlpi_open (3).
.TP
.I di_physaddr
indicates the physical address for the PPA.
.TP
.I di_physaddrlen
indicates the length of the physical address.
.TP
.I di_bcastaddr
indicates the broadcast address for the PPA.
.TP
.I di_bcastaddrlen
indicates the length of the broadcast address.
.TP
.I di_sap
indicates the bound SAP.
.TP
.I di_timeout
indicates the timeout for DLPI operations.
.TP
.I di_qos_sel
indicates the connectionless mode quality of service parameter selection.
The \fBdl_qos_cl_sel1_t\fP structure is defined in
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
and is part of the DLPI specification.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.TP
.I di_qos_range
indicates the connectionless mode quality of service parameter range.
The \fBdl_qos_cl_range1_t\fP structure is defined in
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
and is part of the DLPI specification.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B dlpi_info
is a DLPI Library
.[
soldoc11
.]
subroutine.
This DLPI Library function returns information obtained from the DLS provider
concerning the state and characteristics of the DLPI Stream.  This is
accomplished internally using the
.BR DL_INFO_REQ "(7) and " DL_INFO_ACK (7)
primitives of the DLPI.
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
Most of the information returned in the \fBdlpi_info_t\fP structure pointed to
by the \fIinfop\fP argument to the call are taken directly from the
.BR DL_INFO_ACK (7)
response.  One exception is the \fIdi_linkname\fP field, which is set to the
same name as was passed as the \fIlinkname\fP argument to the
.BR dlpi_open (3)
call.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
To use the
.B dlpi_info
function, include
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
and
.RB < dlpi.h >
header files in C language programs.
Add the
.RB ` -ldlpi '
flag to the linker command when linking C language programs that use the
.B dlpi_info
function or include the
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.a
static library object as an target of the linking.
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
.B dlpi_info
is fully thread-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.B dlpi_info
is successful, it returns \fBDLPI_SUCCESS\fP.
When
.B dlpi_info
fails, it returns an error code.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.B dlpi_info
fails, it returns an error code.
.B dlpi_info
may fail when:
.PP
A DLPI Library error occurs:
.TP 12
.RB [ DLPI_EBADMSG ]
Received a bad or unexpected DLPI message.
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_EINHANDLE ]
The DLPI handle, \fIdh\fP, is not a valid data link handle.
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_EINVAL ]
An invalid argument was passed to \fBdlpi_info\fP.  Either \fIinfop\fP is
\fBNULL\fP or \fIoptions\fP is non-zero.
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_EMODENOTSUP ]
The DLS provider reported an unsupported data link service mode (i.e.,
\fBDL_CODLS\fP or \fBDL_ACLDLS\fP).
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_ETIMEDOUT ]
A DLPI operation timed out before the expected response was received.
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_EVERNOTSUP ]
The DLPI version reported by the DLS provider is unsupported by the DLPI
Library.
.TP
.RB [ DLPI_FAILURE ]
.PP
A DLPI error occurs:
.TP 12
.RB [ DL_SYSERR ]
A system error has occured and the \fBLinux\fP system error code is indicated
in the \fIerrno\fP(3) global variable.
.PP
A \fBLinux\fP system error occurs:
.TP 12
.RB [ EPERM ]
Fine-grained permission for the request is incorrect.
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
Insufficient memory was immediately available to satisfy the request.
.TP
.RB [ ENOBUFS ]
Insufficient buffers were immediately available to satisfy the request.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
Insufficient \fISTREAMS\fP resources were available to satisfy the request.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
A temporary failure occured and the DLS user should reissue the request.
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
THe control information in the request has already been subjected to the
control request or a transient condition prevented the request.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
On of the parameters of the requst for which there is no prescribed error code
has an invalid value.
.TP
.RB [ ENOTSUP ]
The request is recognized by not supported.
.TP
.RB [ ENOLINK ]
The interface, Physical Point of Attachment, or underlying driver or device, is
not connected.
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
Invalid device.  The interface, Physical Point of Attachment, or underlying
driver or device is no longer installed on the system.
.PP
In addition, any of the error numbers returned by
.BR putmsg (2s),
.BR getmsg (2s),
may also be returned by
.BR dlpi_info .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B dlpi_info
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function.  It may be necessary to define the C preprocessor symbol,
.BR _SUN_SOURCE ,
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file, to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations
necessary for the use of this function.
It may also be necessary to include the
.RB < dlpi.h >
header file
to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations necessary
for the use of this function.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/sys/dlpi.h
The DLPI header file.
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/dlpi.h
The DLPI Library header file.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.a
The static library containing the
.BR dlpi_info
function.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.so
The shared object library containing the
.BR dlpi_info
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B dlpi_info
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi (3),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B dlpi_info
is compatible with the
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library,
.[
soldoc11
.]
and systems providing an interface equivalent to
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B DLPI Library
functions are
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific,
and are provided only for porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
applications programs, drivers and modules to
.BR Linux .
They are inherently non-portable.  These functions will be avoided by portable
DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted, only source compatibility: any binary
compatibility experienced is coincidental and may change on a future release.
It may be necessary to recompile all \fISTREAMS\fP drivers and modules that
share definitions with the DLPI API library using
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supplied header files.
.PP
For further compatibility information, see
.BR dlpi (3),
.BR dlpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI documentation.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.B dlpi_info
first appeared in the
.IR Solaris "\(rg " 11 .
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of the
.IR "DLPI Library" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
