'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: dlpi_attach_ppa.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008/07/08 16:57:17 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008/07/08 16:57:17 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: dlpi_attach_ppa.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008/07/08 16:57:17  brian
.\" - updated libraries and manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-07-01 11:50:53  brian
.\" - added manual pages and library implementation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DLPI_ATTACH_PPA 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 DLPI API Library"
.\" =========================================================================
.SH NAME
.B dlpi_attach_ppa
\- 
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.BR libdlpiapi (3),
the
.IR GCOM -specific,
DLPI
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
API Library.
.[
dlpiapi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.nh
.PP
.B #include <sys/dlpi.h>
.br
.B #include <dlpiapi.h>
.HP
\fBint dlpi_attach_ppa\fP(\fBint\fP \fIfd\fP, \fBulong\fP \fIppa\fP);
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the file descriptor for the Stream.
.TP
.I ppa
the Physical Point of Attachment (PPA).
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B dlpi_attach_ppa
is a DLPI API Library
.[
dlpiapi
.]
subroutine.
It issues a
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive for the specified PPA, \fIppa\fP, on the DLPI Stream specified by the
file descriptor, \fIfd\fP, and awaits and processes either a
.BR DL_OK_ACK (7)
primitive acknowledging the attachment, or a
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive negatively acknowledging the attachment.
.BR dlpi_send_attach_req (3)
is used to issue the
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive, and
.BR dlpi_complete_req (3)
is used to await and process the acknowledgement.
.PP
This library call is only valid in when the DLPI Stream is in the
.BR DL_UNATTACHED
state.  The next state upon successful completion is the
.BR DL_UNBOUND
state.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
To use the
.B dlpi_attach_ppa
function, include
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
and
.RB < dlpiapi.h >
header files in C language programs.
Add the
.RB ` -ldlpiapi '
flag to the linker command when linking C language programs that use the
.B dlpi_attach_ppa
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
.B dlpi_attach_ppa
is fully thread-safe.
What is described as global variables are in fact thread-specific data when
linked with
.BR libpthread .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.B dlpi_attach_ppa
is successful, it returns a non-zero, positive integer value.
When
.B dlpi_attach_ppa
fails, it returns a negative integer value (-1).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.B dlpi_attach_ppa
fails, it returns a negative integer value (-1).
.B dlpi_attach_ppa
may fail when:
.PP
A DLPI Library error occurs:
.\".TP \w'[\fBDLPIAPI_SYSERR\fP]\(em'u
.TP
.RB [ DLPIAPI_UNSUPPORTED_MSG ]
an unexpected DLPI response message was received.
.TP
.RB [ DLPIAPI_NO_NOTHING ]
terminal end of file, the DLPI Stream is hung up.
.TP
.RB [ DLPIAPI_STYLE_UNKNOWN ]
the provider style is not known.
.TP
.RB [ DLPIAPI_PARAM_ERROR ]
invalid parameter error: at least one of the arguments passed is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ DLPIAPI_NOT_INIT ]
.BR dlpi_init (3)
has not been called to initialize the library.
.TP
.RB [ DLPIAPI_OPEN_ERROR ]
could not open a DLPI Stream.
.TP
.RB [ DLPIAPI_REJECT ]
.BR dlpi_complete_req (3)
was rejected with an
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
or
.BR DL_DISCONNECT_IND (7)
primitive.
.TP
.RB [ DLPIAPI_UNUSABLE ]
a
.BR putmsg (2s)
or
.BR getmsg (2s)
system call failed.
.TP
.RB [ DLPIAPI_EINTR ]
an interrupt occured before the command could complete.
.TP
.RB [ DLPIAPI_EAGAIN ]
a non-blocking attempt on an empty or flow controlled DLPI Stream would have
blocked.
.TP
.RB [ DLPIAPI_SYSERR ]
.IR errno (3)
contains the \fBLinux\fP system error.
.PP
DLPI Library error numbers are negative integer values, whose values are
returned from the library call, and stored in the
.IR dlerrno (3)
global variable.
.PP
A DLPI error occurs:
.\".TP \w'[\fBDLPIAPI_SYSERR\fP]\(em'u
.TP
.RB [ DL_ACCESS ]
the DLS user did not have proper permission to use the requested PPA.
.TP
.RB [ DL_BADPPA ]
the specified PPA is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ DL_OUTSTATE ]
the primitive was issued from an invalid state.
.TP
.RB [ DL_INITFAILED ]
automatic initialization of the PPA failed.
.TP
.RB [ DL_NOTINIT ]
the PPA had not been initialized prior to this request.
.TP
.RB [ DL_SYSERR ]
a \fBLinux\fP system error has occured and the \fBLinux\fP system error is
indicated in the
.IR errno (3)
global variable.
.PP
DLPI error numbers are positive integer values, whose values are nevery
returned from the library call, however, a copy of the last DLPI error is
contained in the
.IR dlerrno (3)
global vairable.
.PP
A \fBLinux\fP system error occurs:
.\".TP \w'[\fBDLPIAPI_SYSERR\fP]\(em'u
.TP
.RB [ ELIBACC ]
See [\fBDLPIAPI_NOT_INIT\fP].
.TP
.RB [ EBADF ]
the file descriptor, \fIfd\fP, supplied does not correspond to a valid DLPI
Stream open for reading and writing.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
See [\fBDLPIAPI_PARAM_ERROR\fP].
.TP
.RB [ ETIMEDOUT ]
the call timed out awaiting a
.BR DL_OK_ACK (7)
or
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7)
primitive.  The default time for which these rpimitives are awaited is
\fB100\fP milliseconds.
.TP
.RB [ EINTR ]
See [\fBDLPIAPI_EINTR\fP].
.TP
.RB [ ERESTART ]
See [\fBDLPIAPI_EINTR\fP].
.TP
.RB [ ERESTARTSYS ]
See [\fBDLPIAPI_EINTR\fP].
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
See [\fBDLPIAPI_EAGAIN\fP].
.TP
.RB [ EBADMSG ]
See [\fBDLPIAPI_UNSUPPORTED_MSG\fP].
.PP
In addition, any of the error numbers returned by
.BR putmsg (2s),
.BR getmsg (2s),
may also be returned by
.BR dlpi_attach_ppa .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B dlpi_attach_ppa
is a
.IR GCOM -specific
function.  It may be necessary to define the C preprocessor smbol,
.BR _GCOM_SOURCE ,
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file, to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations
necessary for the use of this function.
It may also be necessary to include the
.RB < dlpiapi.h >
header file
to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations necessary
for the use of this function.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/sys/dlpi.h
The DLPI header file.
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/dlpiapi.h
The DLPI API Library header file.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpiapi.a
The static library containing the
.BR dlpi_attach_ppa
function.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpiapi.so
The shared object library containing the
.BR dlpi_attach_ppa
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B dlpi_attach_ppa
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ (7),
.BR DL_OK_ACK (7),
.BR DL_ERROR_ACK (7),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpiapi (3),
.BR dlpi_init (3),
.IR dlerrno (3),
.IR errno (3),
.BR poll (2s),
.BR putmsg (2s),
.BR getmsg (2s),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B dlpi_attach_ppa
is compatible with the
.I GCOM
DLPI API Library,
.[
dlpiapi
.]
and systems providing an interface equivalent to
.I GCOM
DLPI API Library,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B dlpi_attach_req
blocks awaiting a response regardless of the blocking or non-blocking flag
settings associated with the open file descriptor.  That is, the function
internally uses
.BR poll (2s).
.IP \(em
.B DLPI API Library
functions are
.IR GCOM -specific,
and are provided only for porting
.IR GCOM
software to
.BR Linux .
They are inherently non-portable.  These functions will be avoided by portable
DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted, only source compatibility: any binary
compatibility experienced is coincidental and may change on a future release.
It may be necessary to recompile all \fISTREAMS\fP drivers and modules that
share definitions with the DLPI API library using
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supplied header files.
.PP
For further compatibility information, see
.BR dlpiapi (3),
.BR dlpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and
.I GCOM
DLPI API documentation.
.[
dlpiapi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.B dlpi_attach_ppa
first appeared in the
.I GCOM
DLPI API.
.[
dlpiapi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of the
.IR "DLPI API Library" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
