'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: dlpi_strerror.3.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008/07/08 16:57:22 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008/07/08 16:57:22 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: dlpi_strerror.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008/07/08 16:57:22  brian
.\" - updated libraries and manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-07-01 11:50:55  brian
.\" - added manual pages and library implementation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DLPI_STRERROR 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 DLPI Library"
.\" =========================================================================
.SH NAME
.B dlpi_strerror
\- obtain an error string.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.BR libdlpi (3),
the
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific,
DLPI
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
Library.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.nh
.PP
.B #include <sys/dlpi.h>
.br
.B #include <dlpi.h>
.HP
\fBconst\ char\ *dlpi_strerror\fP(\fBint\fP\ \fIerror\fP);
.ad b
.hy
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I error
the error number to decode.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B dlpi_strerror
is a DLPI Library
.[
soldoc11
.]
subroutine call.
This call translates the error code, \fIerror\fP, to a human readible
description string in the locale of the environment.  When \fIerror\fP is
\fB\)DL_SYSERR\fP, the error code is taken from \fI\)errno\fP(3).  If
\fIerror\fP is not one of the known error codes, \fI\*(lqUnknown DLPI error
code\*(rq\fP, is returned in the 'C' language locale.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
To use the
.B dlpi_strerror
function, include
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
and
.RB < dlpi.h >
header files in C language programs.
Add the
.RB ` -ldlpi '
flag to the linker command when linking C language programs that use the
.B dlpi_strerror
function or include the
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.a
static library object as an target of the linking.
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
.B dlpi_strerror
is fully thread-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH LOCALIZATION
.PP
.B dlpi_strerror
supports full localizations using
.BR gettext .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.B dlpi_strerror
is successful, it returns a pointer to a constant string describing the error
code, \fIerror\fP.
When
.B dlpi_strerror
fails, it returns a pointer to a constant string generically describing
unknown error codes.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.B dlpi_strerror
fails, it returns a pointer to a constant string generically describing
unknown error codes.
.B dlpi_strerror
may fail when the error code, \fIerror\fP, is unknown to the DLPI Library, or
is an unknown \fBLinux\fP system error code.
.PP
DLPI Library
.[
soldoc11
.]
errors and their corresponding 'C' language locale text strings are as
follows:
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_SUCCESS\fP \(em \fI\*(lqDLPI operation succeeded\*(rq\fP
The DLPI Library call completed successfully.  Any other value returned from a
DLPI Library function indicates failure.  Note that this value is not
necessarily zero (0) and that zero or non-zero return codes generally \fIdo
not\fP distinguish between non-errors and errors in the DLPI Library.
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_EINVAL\fP \(em \fI\*(lqInvalid argument\*(rq\fP
One of the arguments provided to the DLPI Library call was invalid, contained
invalid information, or was not formatted properly.  This only applies to DLPI
Library arguments passed to public interfaces belonging to the DLPI Library.
This error code is a generic error condition used only when there is not a
more specific error condition that applies.
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_ELINKNAMEINVAL\fP \(em \fI\*(lqInvalid DLPI linkname\*(rq\fP
The \fIlinkname\fP (first) argument to the \fBdlpi_open\fP(3) library call was
invalid (e.g. \fBNULL\fP), contained invalid information (e.g. a null string),
was not formatted properly (e.g. contained control characters).  This error
code is only returned by the \fBdlpi_open\fP(3) library call.
See \fBdlpi_open\fP(3).
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_ENOLINK\fP \(em \fI\*(lqDLPI link does not exist\*(rq\fP
The \fIlinkname\fP (first) argument to the \fBdlpi_open\fP(3) library call as
formatted correctly; ohwever, the link to which it refers does not exist.
This error code is only returned by the \fBdlpi_open\fP(3) library
call.
See \fBdlpi_open\fP(3).
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_EBADLINK\fP \(em \fI\*(lqBad DLPI link\*(rq\fP
The \fIlinkname\fP (first) argument to the \fBdlpi_open\fP(3) library call was
formatted correctly, and referred to an existing link; however, the existing
link device is unusable (e.g. it refers to a device other than a data link).
This error code is only returned by the \fBdlpi_open\fP(3) library
call.
See \fBdlpi_open\fP(3).
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_EINHANDLE\fP \(em \fI\*(lqInvalid DLPI handle\*(rq\fP
When a link is opened successfully using the \fBdlpi_open\fP(3) call, it
returns a handle of type \fBdlpi_handle_t\fP that is later used as the first
argument to may DLPI library calls and is used to make reference to the open
data link.  When the data link is closed, the handle that corresponded to the
open data link can no longer be used.  This error indicates that the passed in
link handle is invalid and does not reference an open data link.
See \fBdlpi_open\fP(3) and \fBdlpi_close\fP(3).
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_ETIMEDOUT\fP \(em \fI\*(lqDLPI operation timed out\*(rq\fP
To effect many DLPI Library subroutines, the library passes DLPI primitives to
the DLS provider on the open Stream and expects a response from the DLS
provider.  To avoid hanging the calling process, when the expected response is
not forthcomoing within a user-settable time interval, the library call
returns with this error code.
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_EVERNOTSUP\fP \(em \fI\*(lqUnsupported DLPI version\*(rq\fP
Some DLPI Library functions rely upon the DLS provider associated with the
data link providing DLPI Revision 2.0.0
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
compatible support.  This is particularly required by the \fBdlpi_info\fP(3)
library call.  When a DLPI Library call discovers that the level of support
required by the library is insufficient, it returns with this error code.
See \fBdlpi_info\fP(3) and \fBDL_INFO_ACK\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_EMODENOTSUP\fP \(em \fI\*(lqUnsupported DLPI connection mode\*(rq\fP
The DLPI Library only supports connectionless data link service.  Should a
data link only provide connection-oriented or acknowledged connectionless data
link service, then the dlpi_info(3) library call will return this error code.
Note that the \fBDL_UNSUPPORTED\fP error code will be returned in the same
situation for \fBdlpi_bind\fP(3).
See \fBdlpi_info\fP(3) and \fBDL_INFO_ACK\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_EUNAVAILSAP\fP \(em \fI\*(lqUnavailable DLPI SAP\*(rq\fP
The DLPI Library always attempts to bind to the requested LSAP selector.  If
the DLS provider binds to an LSAP other than the requsted one (e.g., the DLS
provider selects an alternate LSAP in accordance with \fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7)
rules), then the DLPI Library call, \fB\)dlpi_bind\fP(3) fails with this error
code.  See \fBdlpi_bind\fP(3) and \fBDL_BIND_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_FAILURE\fP \(em \fI\*(lqDLPI operation failed\*(rq\fP
When a DLPI primitive operation or recovery action performed by a DLPI Library
function fails, and there is no other DLPI Library error that is appropriate,
or a double-error condition has occurred during recovery, the DLPI Library
call returns this error code.  See \fB\)dlpi_open\fP(3) and
\fB\)dlpi_bind\fP(3).
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_ENOTSTYLE2\fP \(em \fI\*(lqDLPI style-2 node reports style-1\*(rq\fP
When the DLPI Library opens a DLPI Stream, it performs transparent opening of
Style-1 and Style-2 DLPI Streams.  Using the \fI\)linkname\fP and following the
search algorithm of the \fB\)dlpi_open\fP(3) call, the DLPI Library expects
some named devices to be Style-2.  If however, such a device happens to report
Style-1, this error is returned.  See \fBdlpi_open\fP(3) and
\fBDL_ATTACH_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_EBADMSG\fP \(em \fI\*(lqBad DLPI message\*(rq\fP
When the DLPI Library receives a DLPI primitive from the DLS provider, and the
DLPI primitive is recognized and expected, but improperly formatted (according
to the DLPI Revision 2.0.0 standard or extension specifications), this error
code is returned.  This error code is not returned by any function in the DLPI
Library for a proper functioning DLS provider.
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_ERAWNOTSUP\fP \(em \fI\*(lqDLPI raw mode not supported\*(rq\fP
The DLS user may specify the \fB\)DLPI_RAW\fP flag on the call to
\fB\)dlpi_open\fP(3) to request raw mode of operation for the data link.
However, not all DLS providers support raw mode.  In the case that the DLS
provider does not support raw mode, this error code is returned.  See
\fB\)dlpi_open\fP(3) and \fB\)dlpi_ioctl\fP(4).
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_ENOTEINVAL\fP \(em \fI\*(lqInvalid DLPI notification type\*(rq\fP
This error code is returned by the \fB\)dlpi_enabnotify\fP(3) call when the
\fInotes\fP (second) argument to that call does not specify a valid
notification.  See \fBdlpi_enabnotify\fP(3) and \fB\)DL_NOTIFY_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_ENOTENOTSUP\fP \(em \fI\*(lqDLPI notification not supported by link\*(rq\fP
When the DLS user calls the \fB\)dlpi_enabnotify\fP(3) library function and
the DLS provider does not support the \fB\)DL_NOTIFY_REQ\fP(7) primitive, this
error code is returned by the library call.  See \fBdlpi_enabnotify\fP(3) and
\fB\)DL_NOTIFY_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DLPI_ENOTEIDINVAL\fP \(em \fI\*(lqInvalid DLPI notification identifier\*(rq\fP
When the DLS user successfully invokes the \fB\)dlpi_enabnotify\fP(3) library
call, the DLS user is provided with an identifier that may be used to identify
the notification for a subsequent call to \fB\)dlpi_disabnotify\fP(3) to
disable the same set of notifications.  Once \fB\)dlpi_disabnotify\fP(3) has
been called for an identifier handle, the handle is no longer valid.  When an
invalid handle is supplied to the \fB\)dlpi_disabnotify\fP(3) library call,
the call returns this error code.
See \fBdlpi_disabnotify\fP(3).
.PP
DLPI Standard
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
errors and their corresponding 'C' language locale text strings are as
follows:
.TP
\fB\)DL_BADSAP\fP \(em \fI\*(lqBad LSAP selector\*(rq\fP
When the DLS user wishes to bind a Stream to a DLSAP, it does so by specifying
the LSAP selector portion of the DLSAP in a \fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7) primitive.
This LSAP selector is subject to rules concerning validity and format by the
underlying DLS provider.  In the case that the LSAP specified by the DLS user
in the \fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7) primitive is invalid or contains an invalid LSAP
value, the DLS provider will respond with a \fB\)DL_ERROR_ACK\fP(7) primitive
that may include the DLPI error \fB\)DL_BADSAP\fP.
.RS
.PP
However, the DLPI Revision 2.0.0
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
standard does not describe this error code being returned in response to a
\fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7) in this situation, but a \fB\)DL_BADADDR\fP value
instead; therefore, there is no DLPI Library call that will return this error
code.  See \fB\)dlpi_bind\fP(3), \fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7) and
\fB\)DL_ERROR_ACK\fP(7) for more information.
.RE
.TP
\fB\)DL_BADADDR\fP \(em \fI\*(lqDLSAP address in improper format or invalid\*(rq\fP
This error code can be returned in a number of contexts, many of which are not
supported by the DLPI Library and are not discussed further here.
.RS
.PP
When issued by the DLS provider in a \fB\)DL_ERROR_ACK\fP(7) primitive issued
in response to a \fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7) primitive containing a bad LSAP
selector, it indicates that only the LSAP portion of the DLSAP address was in
an improper or invalid format.  See \fB\)dlpi_bind\fP(3) and
\fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7).
.PP
When issued by the DLS provider in response to a \fB\)DL_ENABMULTI_REQ\fP(7)
or \fB\)DL_DISABMULTI_REQ\fP primitive, it indicates that the multicast
address was in an improper or invalid format.  See \fB\)dlpi_enabmulti\fP(3),
\fB\)dlpi_disabmulti\fP(3), \fB\)DL_ENABMULTI_REQ\fP(7) and
\fB\)DL_DISABMULTI_REQ\fP(7).
.PP
When issued by the DLS provider in a \fB\)DL_UDERROR_IND\fP(7) primitive
issued in response to a \fB\)DL_UNITDATA_REQ\fP(7) primitive containing a bad
address, it indicates that the DLSAP address was in an improper or invalid
format.  See \fB\)dlpi_send\fP(3), \fB\)DL_UNITDATA_REQ\fP(7) and
\fB\)DL_UDERROR_IND\fP(7).
.PP
Other uses of this error code are not supported by the DLPI Library.
.RE
.TP
\fB\)DL_ACCESS\fP \(em \fI\*(lqImproper permissions for request\*(rq\fP
This error code can be returned in a number of contexts, many of which are not
supported by the DLPI Library and not discussed here.
.RS
.PP
When issued in response to a \fB\)DL_ATTACH_REQ\fP(7) primitive containing a
Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) that has restricted access, the
\fB\)DL_ACCESS\fP error code indicates that the DLS user did not have
sufficient privilege (when the Stream was opened) to use the requested PPA.
See \fB\)dlpi_open\fP(3) and \fB\)DL_ATTACH_REQ\fP(7).
.PP
When issued in response to a \fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7) primitive containing a
Link Service Access Pointer (LSAP) selector that has restricted access, the
\fB\)DL_ACCESS\fP error code indicates that the DLS user did not have
sufficient privilege (when the Stream was opened) to use the requested LSAP
selector.  See \fB\)dlpi_bind\fP(3) and \fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7).
.PP
Other uses of this error code are not supported by the DLPI Library.
.RE
.TP
\fB\)DL_OUTSTATE\fP \(em \fI\*(lqPrimitive issued in improper state\*(rq\fP
As primitives are exhcanged between the DLS user and the DLS provider, the DLS
provider tracks the state of the interface toward the DLS user.  Not all
primitives are valid in all DLS user-provider interface states.  A
\fB\)DL_ERROR_ACK\fP(7) primitive containing this error code is issued by the
DLS provided in response to any primitive requiring negative acknowledgement
that requires the DLS provider to be in specific DLPI interface states, and
was not issued in one of those specific states.  For the DLPI Library, this
consists largely of the bind and unbind subroutine calls.  See
\fB\)dlpi_bind\fP(3), \fB\)dlpi_unbind\fP(3), \fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7) and
\fB\)DL_UNBIND_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_SYSERR\fP \(em \fI\*(lqUNIX system error occurred\*(rq\fP
During execution of a DLPI Library subroutine call or processing by the DLS
provider of a DLS user issued primitive, an error may occur that is described
by a UNIX system error code per \fI\)errno\fP(3).  \fB\)DL_SYSERR\fP in the
DLPI error code indicates that the UNIX system error code is either contained
in the \fI\)dl_unix_errno\fP field of the associated \fB\)DL_ERROR_ACK\fP(7)
primitive, or, when returned by a DLPI Library call, contained in the
\fI\)errno\fP(3) global variable.
.TP
\fB\)DL_BADCORR\fP \(em \fI\*(lqSequence number not from outstanding DL_CONN_IND\*(rq\fP
This error code is not returned by any function in the DLPI Library for a
proper functioning DLS provider.
.TP
\fB\)DL_BADDATA\fP \(em \fI\*(lqUser data exceeded provider limit\*(rq\fP
This error code is not returned by any function in the DLPI Library for a
proper functioning DLS provider.  See \fB\)DL_UDERROR_IND\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_UNSUPPORTED\fP \(em \fI\*(lqRequested service not supplied by provider\*(rq\fP
When the DLS user wishes to bind a DLPI Stream, the DLS user issues a
\fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7) primitive that specifies the requested service mode in
the \fI\)dl_service_mode\fP field of the primitive.  As the DLPI Library only
supports connectionless mode service, \fB\)DL_CLDLS\fP, the
\fB\)dlpi_bind\fP(3) subroutine always binds with this service type.  When the
DLS provider does not support the \fB\)DL_CLDLS\fP service mode, this error
code is returned.  See \fB\)dlpi_bind\fP(3) and \fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_BADPPA\fP \(em \fI\*(lqSepcified PPA was invalid\*(rq\fP
When the DLS user wishes to attach a Style-2 DLPI Stream to a Physical Point
of Attachment (PPA), it issues a \fB\)DL_ATTACH_REQ\fP(7) primitive to the DLS
provider that contains the requested PPA in the \fI\)dl_ppa\fP field of the
primitive.  The DLPI Library transparently attaches Style-2 providers as part
of the \fB\)dlpi_open\fP(3) library call.  When the determined PPA is not
appropriate for the driver, this error code is returned.  See
\fB\)dlpi_open\fP(3) and \fB\)DL_ATTACH_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_BADPRIM\fP \(em \fI\*(lqPrimitive received not known by provider\*(rq\fP
When the DLS provider receives a primitive from the DLS user that is either
too short to be a primitive (is not long enough to contain a
\fI\)dl_primitive\fP field) or contains a \fI\)dl_primitive\fP value that
indicates a primitive that is unknown to the DLS provider, the DLS provider
returns a \fB\)DL_ERROR_ACK\fP(7) primitive with the \fB\)DL_BADPRIM\fP error
code.  This error code may be returned for extension primitives that are not
known to the DLS provider.  See \fB\)dlpi_disabnotify\fP(3) and
\fB\)dlpi_enabnotify\fP(3).
.TP
\fB\)DL_BADQOSPARAM\fP \(em \fI\*(lqQOS parameters contained invalid values\*(rq\fP
This error code is not returned by any function in the DLPI Library for a
proper functioning DLS provider.  See \fB\)DL_UDQOS_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_BADQOSTYPE\fP \(em \fI\*(lqQOS structure type is unknown or unsupported\*(rq\fP
This error code is not returned by any function in the DLPI Library for a
proper functioning DLS provider.  See \fB\)DL_UDQOS_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_BADTOKEN\fP \(em \fI\*(lqToken used not an active stream\*(rq\fP
This error code is not returned by any function in the DLPI Library for a
proper functioning DLS provider.  See \fB\)DL_CONNECT_RES\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_BOUND\fP \(em \fI\*(lqAttempted second bind with dl_max_conind\*(rq\fP
This error code is not returned by any function in the DLPI Library for a
proper functioning DLS provider.  See \fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_INITFAILED\fP \(em \fI\*(lqPhysical link initialization failed\*(rq\fP
DLS providers are permitted to initialize the link when it is successfully
attached or bound.  The DLPI standard requires that the link be initialized by
the time that the \fB\)DL_BIND_ACK\fP(7) primitive is issued, either using
automatic initialization using the \fB\)DL_ATTACH_REQ\fP(7) or
\fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7) primitives, or non-automatic initialization requiring
some other mechanism (such as an input-output control).  If link
initialization has been attempted and failed, this error code may be returned
to the attach or bind.  See \fB\)dlpi_open\fP(3), \fB\)dlpi_bind\fP(3),
\fB\)DL_ATTACH_REQ\fP(7) and \fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_NOADDR\fP \(em \fI\*(lqProvider could not allocate alternate address\*(rq\fP
When the DLS user attempts to bind to an LSAP selector that results in a DLSAP
address that is already bound to another DLPI Stream and the DLS provider does
not support multiple DLPI Streams to be bound to the same DLSAP, the DLS
provider may attempt to choose an alternate DLSAP address to which to bind.  If
an alternate DLSAP address cannot be formulated, the DLS provider may return
this error code.  See \fB\)dlpi_bind\fP(3) and \fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_NOTINIT\fP \(em \fI\*(lqPhysical link not initialized\*(rq\fP
DLS providers are permitted to initialize the link when it is successfully
attached or bound.  The DLPI standard requires that the link be initialized by
the time that the \fB\)DL_BIND_ACK\fP(7) primitive is issued, either using
automatic initialization using the \fB\)DL_ATTACH_REQ\fP(7) or
\fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7) primitives, or non-automatic initialization requiring
some other mechanism (such as an input-output control).  If the DLS provider
requires non-automatic initialization of the link and the link has not so been
initialized at the time that DLS user requests the link be attached or bound,
this error code is returned.  See \fB\)dlpi_open\fP(3), \fB\)dlpi_bind\fP(3),
\fB\)DL_ATTACH_REQ\fP(7) and \fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_UNDELIVERABLE\fP \(em \fI\*(lqPrevious data unit could not be delivered\*(rq\fP
This error code is not returned by any function in the DLPI Library for a
proper functioning DLS provider.  See \fB\)DL_UDERROR_IND\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_NOTSUPPORTED\fP \(em \fI\*(lqPrimitive is known but not supported\*(rq\fP
When the DLS provider receives a primitive that is known (part of the DLPI
Revision 2.0.0 standard or a known extension) but is not supported by the DLS
provider, this error code is returned.  This error code can be returned by the
DLPI library for features which are optionally supported by the DLS provider.
See \fB\)dlpi_disabmulti\fP(3), \fB\)dlpi_disabnotify\fP(3),
\fB\)dlpi_enabmulti\fP(3), \fB\)dlpi_enabnotify\fP(3),
\fB\)dlpi_get_physaddr\fP(3), \fB\)dlpi_promiscoff\fP(3),
\fB\)dlpi_promiscon\fP(3) and \fB\)dlpi_set_physaddr\fP(3).
.TP
\fB\)DL_TOOMANY\fP \(em \fI\*(lqLimit exceeded\*(rq\fP
When the DLS user binds or enables additional DLSAPs or multicast addresses on
a DLPI Stream, the number of DLSAP or multicast addresses that the DLS user
attempts to bind may exceed a limit on the number of DLSAPs or multicast
addresses that the DLS provider imposes.  In this case, the DLS provider
returns this error code in response to the primitive that attempts to exceed
the limit.  For the DLPI Library, this error code may be returned by the
\fB\)dlpi_enabmulti\fP(3) library call.  See \fB\)dlpi_enabmulti\fP(3) and
\fB\)DL_ENABMULTI_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_NOTENAB\fP \(em \fI\*(lqPromiscuous mode or multicast address not enabled\*(rq\fP
When the DLS user enables promiscuous mode on a device or enables a multicast
address, the state of the interface does not change.  Therefore, if the DLS
user requests that a promiscious mode be turned off or that a multicast
address be disabled, and the promiscuous mode was not enabled, or the
multicast address was not enabled, this error code is returned by the DLS
provider.  See \fB\)dlpi_promiscoff\fP(3), \fB\)dlpi_disabmulti\fP(3),
\fB\)DL_PROMISCOFF_REQ\fP(7) and \fB\)DL_DISABMULTI_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_BUSY\fP \(em \fI\*(lqOther streams for PPA in post-attached state\*(rq\fP
When a DLS user wishes to set the physical address for a particular PPA on a
Style-2 DLPI Stream, the DLS provider will not allow the physical address to
be set provided that there is another DLPI Stream attached and bound to the
PPA.  In the case where the DLS provider must prohibit the setting of the
physical address, this error code is returned.  See
\fB\)dlpi_set_physaddr\fP(3) and \fB\)DL_SET_PHYS_ADDR_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_NOAUTO\fP \(em \fI\*(lqAutomatic handling of XID and TEST response not supported\*(rq\fP
This error code is not returned by any function in the DLPI Library for a
proper functioning DLS provider.  See \fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_NOXIDAUTO\fP \(em \fI\*(lqAutomatic handling of XID not supported\*(rq\fP
This error code is not returned by any function in the DLPI Library for a
proper functioning DLS provider.  See \fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_NOTESTAUTO\fP \(em \fI\*(lqAutomatic handling of TEST not supported\*(rq\fP
This error code is not returned by any function in the DLPI Library for a
proper functioning DLS provider.  See \fB\)DL_BIND_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_XIDAUTO\fP \(em \fI\*(lqAutomatic handling of XID response\*(rq\fP
This error code is not returned by any function in the DLPI Library for a
proper functioning DLS provider.  See \fB\)DL_XID_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_TESTAUTO\fP \(em \fI\*(lqAutomatic handling of TEST response\*(rq\fP
This error code is not returned by any function in the DLPI Library for a
proper functioning DLS provider.  See \fB\)DL_TEST_REQ\fP(7).
.TP
\fB\)DL_PENDING\fP \(em \fI\*(lqPending outstanding connect indications\*(rq\fP
This error code is not returned by any function in the DLPI Library for a
proper functioning DLS provider.  See \fB\)DL_CONNECT_RES\fP(7).
.PP
Some UNIX errors and their corresponding 'C' language locale text strings are
as follows:
.TP
[\fB\)EPERM\fP] \(em \fI\*(lqOperation not permitted\*(rq\fP
Fine-grained permission for the request or response is incorrect.  That is,
the primitive is recognized and supported by the DLS provider but the
reqeusting DLS user Stream does not have sufficient permissions for the DLS
provider to satisfy the request.  This is only returned where
\fB\)DL_ACCESS\fP does not apply.
.TP
[\fB\)ENOMEM\fP] \(em \fI\*(lqCannot allocate memory\*(rq\fP
Insufficient memory was available to satisfy the request.  The request or
response may be successful if the DLS user reissues the request or response
primitive at a later time when resources become available.
.TP
[\fB\)ENOBUFS\fP] \(em \fI\*(lqNo buffer space available\*(rq\fP
Insufficient buffers were available to satisfy the request.  The request or
response may be successful if the DLS user reissues the request or response
primitive at a later time when resources become available.
.TP
[\fB\)ENOSR\fP] \(em \fI\*(lqOut of streams resources\*(rq\fP
Insufficient STREAMS resources were available to satisfy the request.  The
request or ressponse may be successful if the DLS user reissues the request or
response primitive at a later time when resources become available.
.TP
[\fB\)EAGAIN\fP] \(em \fI\*(lqResource temporarily unavailable\*(rq\fP
A temporary failure occured and the DLS user should reissue the request or
response.
.TP
[\fB\)EBUSY\fP] \(em \fI\*(lqDevice or resource busy\*(rq\fP
The control information in the request or response primitive has already been
subjected to the control request or response, or the driver is unable to
handle the request due to some other transient condition.
.TP
[\fB\)EINVAL\fP] \(em \fI\*(lqInvalid argument\*(rq\fP
One of the parameters of the request for which there is no prescribed DLPI
error code has an invalid value.
.TP
[\fB\)ENOTSUP\fP] \(em \fI\*(lqOperation not supported\*(rq\fP
Unsupported request, event or call.  The DLS provider recognizes and supports
the request or response primitive, however, the specific request or response
is not supported by the DLS provider or data link protocol and there is no
prescribed DLPI error code.
.TP
[\fB\)ENOLINK\fP] \(em \fI\*(lqLink has been severed\*(rq\fP
THe interface (Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) or underlying driver or
device) is not connected and no prescribed DLPI error code is applicable.
.TP
[\fB\)ENXIO\fP] \(em \fI\*(lqNo such device or address\*(rq\fP
Invalid device.  The interace (Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) or
underlying driver or device) is no longer installed on the system.
.PP
When the error code, \fIerror\fP is unknown:
.TP
{\fBunknown\fP} \(em \fI\*(lqUnknown DLPI error code\*(lq\fP
The error code is unknown to the DLPI Library.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B dlpi_strerror
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function.  It may be necessary to define the C preprocessor symbol,
.BR _SUN_SOURCE ,
before including the
.RB < sys/dlpi.h >
header file, to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations
necessary for the use of this function.
It may also be necessary to include the
.RB < dlpi.h >
header file
to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations necessary
for the use of this function.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/sys/dlpi.h
The DLPI header file.
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/dlpi.h
The DLPI Library header file.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.a
The static library containing the
.BR dlpi_strerror
function.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libdlpi.so
The shared object library containing the
.BR dlpi_strerror
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B dlpi_strerror
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi (3),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B dlpi_strerror
is compatible with the
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library,
.[
soldoc11
.]
and systems providing an interface equivalent to
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI Library,
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B DLPI Library
functions are
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific,
and are provided only for porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
applications programs, drivers and modules to
.BR Linux .
They are inherently non-portable.  These functions will be avoided by portable
DLPI programs.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted, only source compatibility: any binary
compatibility experienced is coincidental and may change on a future release.
It may be necessary to recompile all \fISTREAMS\fP drivers and modules that
share definitions with the DLPI API library using
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supplied header files.
.PP
For further compatibility information, see
.BR dlpi (3),
.BR dlpi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
DLPI,
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
DLPI documentation.
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.B dlpi_strerror
first appeared in the
.IR Solaris "\(rg " 11 .
.[
soldoc11
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of the
.IR "DLPI Library" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
