'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: npi_fac_walk.3.man,v 0.9.2.1 2008-07-01 11:50:57 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-07-01 11:50:57 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: npi_fac_walk.3.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-07-01 11:50:57  brian
.\" - added manual pages and library implementation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxns.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxns.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH NPI_FAC_WALK 3 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "OpenSS7 NPI API Library"
.\" =========================================================================
.SH NAME
.B npi_fac_walk
\- 
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.BR libnpiapi (3),
the
.IR GCOM -specific,
NPI
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
API Library.
.[
npiapi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/npi.h>
.br
.B #include <npiapi.h>
.HP
\fBint npi_fac_walk\fP(\fBint\fP \fIfd\fP);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I fd
the file descriptor for the Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B npi_fac_walk
is a NPI API Library
.[
npiapi
.]
subroutine.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
To use the
.B npi_fac_walk
function, include
.RB < sys/npi.h >
and
.RB < npiapi.h >
header files in C language programs.
Add the
.RB ` -lnpiapi '
flag to the linker command when linking C language programs that use the
.B npi_fac_walk
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH MT CONTEXT
.PP
.B npi_fac_walk
is fully thread-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.B npi_fac_walk
is successful, it returns zero (0) or a positive integer value.
When
.B npi_fac_walk
fails, it returns a negative integer value (-1).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.B npi_fac_walk
fails, it returns a negative integer value (-1).
.B npi_fac_walk
may fail when:
.TP \w'[\fBENOMEM\fP]\(em'u
.RB [ EBADF ]
the file descriptor,
.IR fd ,
supplied does not correspond to a valid NPI Stream open for reading and
writing.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
one of the arguments supplied was invalid.
.PP
In addition, any of the error numbers returned by
.BR putmsg (2s),
.BR getmsg (2s),
.BR open (2s),
.BR close (2s),
.BR ioctl (2s)
may also be returned by
.BR npi_fac_walk .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B npi_fac_walk
is a
.IR GCOM -specific
function.  It may be necessary to define the C preprocessor smbol,
.BR _GCOM_SOURCE ,
before including the
.RB < sys/npi.h >
header file, to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations
necessary for the use of this function.
It may also be necessary to include the
.RB < npiapi.h >
header file
to expose this symbolic constants, data structures and declarations necessary
for the use of this function.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/sys/npi.h
The NPI header file.
.TP
.B @includedir@/@PACKAGE@/npiapi.h
The NPI API Library header file.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libnpiapi.a
The static library containing the
.BR npi_fac_walk
function.
.TP
.B @libdir@/libnpiapi.so
The shared object library containing the
.BR npi_fac_walk
function.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B npi_fac_walk
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR npi (7),
.BR npiapi (3),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B npi_fac_walk
is compatible with the
.I GCOM
NPI API Library,
.[
npiapi
.]
and system providing an interface equialent to the
.I GCOM
NPI API Library,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B NPI API Library
functions are
.IR GCOM -specific,
and are provided only for porting
.IR GCOM
software to
.BR Linux .
They are inherently non-portable.  These functions will be avoided by portable
NPI programs.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not attempted, only source compatiblity: any binary
compatibility experienced is coincidental and may change on a future release.
It may be necessary to recompile all \fISTREAMS\fP drivers and modules that
share definitions with the NPI API library using
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
supplied header files.
.PP
For further compatibility information, see
.BR npiapi (3),
.BR npi (7),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
NPI,
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
and
.I GCOM
NPI API documentation.
.[
npiapi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The Network Provider Interface (NPI),
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7),
first appeared in SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.B npi_fac_walk
first appeared in the
.I GCOM
NPI API.
.[
npiapi
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manual page was written for the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of the
.IR "NPI API Library" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.T2
