'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sock2path.5.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/08/29 11:41:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/08/29 11:41:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sock2path.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/08/29 11:41:03  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:44:48  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH NETCONFIG 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B netconfig
\- network configuration database.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B /etc/netconfig
.HP
.BR #include " <" netconfig.h >
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The network configuration database file,
.BR /etc/netconfig ,
is a system file that contains configuration information for network services
and, specifically, the Network Selection component of the Network Services Library,
.BR libnsl (3).
.PP
Each entry in the network configuration database file can be represented by a
.B netconfig
structure, formatted as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct netconfig {
    char *nc_netid;      /* network id string */
    ulong nc_semantics;  /* service interface semantics */
    ulong nc_flag;       /* flags */
    char *nc_protofmly;  /* protocol family string */
    char *nc_proto;      /* protocol name string */
    char *nc_device;     /* STREAMS device path */
    ulong nc_nlookups;   /* num. of name-to-address libs */
    char **nc_lookups;   /* name-to-address libraries */
    ulong nc_unused[9];  /* reserved for future use */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Where
.TP \w'nc_protofmly\(em'u
.I nc_netid
The network identifier string defined by the system administrator and unique
to each entry in the network configuration database file.
.TP
.I nc_semantics
The semantics describing the service interface of the associated
.I STREAMS
transport service provider.
.I nc_semantics
can take on one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'NC_TPI_COTS_ORD\(em'u
.B NC_TPI_CLTS
Transport Provider interface,
.BR tpi (7),
Connectionless Transport Service.
.PD 0
.TP
.B NC_TPI_COTS
Transport Provider interface,
.BR tpi (7),
Connection-Oriented Transport Service.
.TP
.B NC_TPI_COTS_ORD
Transport Provider interface,
.BR tpi (7),
Connection-Oriented Transport Service with Orderly Release.
.TP
.B NC_TPI_RAW
Transport Provider interface,
.BR tpi (7),
Raw Transport Service.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I nc_flag
Flags associated with the transport entry.
.I nc_flag
can take on one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'NC_VISIBLE\(em'u
.B NC_NOFLAG
No option flag is indicated.
.PD 0
.TP
.B NC_VISIBLE
The visible option flag is indicated.  This means that the network transport
provider is visible to
.BR getpath (3)
when the
.B NETPATH
environment variable is not set.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I nc_protofmly
The protocol family string assigned by the system adminstrator.
.TP
.I nc_proto
The protocol string assigned by the system administrator.
.TP
.I nc_device
The device path to a
.I STREAMS
.BR clone (4)
device that provides access to the associated transport provider.
.TP
.I nc_nlookups
The number of name to address translation libraries.
.TP
.I nc_lookups
An array of address translation libraries.  The number of strings contained in
this array is specified with the
.I nc_nlookups
field.
.TP
.I nc_unused
Unused bytes reserved for future expansion.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
Entries consist of a number fo fields separated by newlines.  Fields are
separated by wthiespace and occur in the order in chiwch they are described
below.  Whitespace can be embedded as blanks or tabs.  Backslashes may be
embedded as backslashes.  Lines that begin with a # (octothorpe) in column 1
are treated as comments.  Each valid line in the file describe an available
transport provider and service.  Each entry contains the following fields:
.sp
.RS
.RI < networkid "> <" semanitcs "> <" flag "> <" protofamily "> <" protoname "> <" device "> <" nametoaddrlibs >
.RE
Where
.TP \w'nametoaddrlibs\(em'u
.I networkid
A network identification string assigned by the local system adminstrator.
Typical names are:
.BR udp6 ", " tcp ", " rawip ", " ticotsord ", etc.
.TP
.I semantics
The semantics of the transport provider service interface.  This field can be
one of:
.sp
.RS
.TP \w'tpi_cots_ord\(em'u
.B tpi_clts
Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
connectionless transport service.
.PD 0
.TP
.B tpi_cots
Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
connection-oriented transport service.
.TP
.B tpi_cots_ord
Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
connection-oriented transport service with orderly release.
.TP
.B tpi_raw
Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
raw trasnport service.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I flag
Either a
.RB \(lq - \(rq
or a sequence of letters,
.RB \(lq v \(rq
or
.RB \(lq b \(rq
as follows:
.sp
.RS
.TP
.B -
Inidcates that no flags are specified.
.PD 0
.TP
.B v
Indicates that the visible flag is specified.  Visible network transports are
exposed to the
.BR getnetpath (3)
subroutine when the
.B NETPATH
environment variable is not set.
.TP
.B b
Indicates that the broadcast flag is specified.  Network transports with the broadcast flag set
permit RPC broadcast.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I protofamily
The protocol family.  This can be one of the following:
.sp
.RS
.TP \w'appletalk\(em'u
.B -
No protocol family applies (experimental).
.PD 0
.TP
.B loopback
Loopback interface (to local host).
.TP
.B inet
Internet protocol version 4.
.TP
.B inet6
Internet protocol version 6.
.TP
.B implink
ARPANET imp addresses.
.TP
.B pup
PUP protocols.
.TP
.B chaos
MIT CHAOS protocols.
.TP
.B ns
XEROX NS protocols.
.TP
.B nbs
NBS protocols.
.TP
.B ecma
ECMA (European Computer Manufactuers Association) protocols.
.TP
.B datakit
DATAKIT protocols.
.TP
.B ccitt
CCITT (IUT-T) protocols, X.25, etc.
.TP
.B sna
IBM SNA (Synchronous Network Architecture) protocols.
.TP
.B decnet
DECNET protocols.
.TP
.B dli
Direct data link interface.
.TP
.B lat
LAT.
.TP
.B hylink
NSC Hyperchannel.
.TP
.B appletalk
Apple Talk.
.TP
.B nit
Network Interface Tap.
.TP
.B ieee802
IEEE 802.2, also ISO 8802.
.TP
.B osi
Umbrella for all families used by OSI.
.TP
.B x25
CCITT (ITU-T) X.25.
.TP
.B osinet
AFI = 47, IDI = 4.
.TP
.B gosip
U.S. Government OSI.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I protoname
The protocol name.  This can be one of the following:
.sp
.RS
.TP \w'icmp\(em'u
.B -
No protocol name applies.
.PD 0
.TP
.B sctp
Stream Control Transmission Protocol.
.TP
.B tcp
Transmission Control Protocol.
.TP
.B udp
User Datagram Protocol.
.TP
.B icmp
Internet Control Message Protoocol.
.TP
.B ipx
Internet Packet Exchange Protocol.
.TP
.B spx
Sequenced Packet Exchange Protocol.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I device
The absolute filesystem path to the appropriate
.I STREAMS
device.  For example,
.BR /dev/inet/tcp .
.TP
.I nametoaddrlibs
Comma separated list of full path names to the name to address dynamic libraries providing a
directory service for this network transport, or as dash,
.RB \(lq - \(rq,
indicating that there are no name to address directory service libraries.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following is a sample network configuration database file:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#
# Network configuration database file.
#
udp6       tpi_clts      v  inet6     udp  /dev/upd6       -
tcp6       tpi_cots_ord  v  inet6     tcp  /dev/tcp6       -
udp        tpi_clts      v  inet      udp  /dev/udp        -
tcp        tpi_cots_ord  v  inet      tcp  /dev/tcp        -
rawip      tpi_raw       -  inet      -    /dev/rawip      -
ticlts     tpi_clts      v  loopback  -    /dev/ticlts     straddr.so
ticots     tpi_cots      v  loopback  -    /dev/ticots     straddr.so
ticotsord  tpi_cots_ord  v  loopback  -    /dev/ticotsord  straddr.so
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/netconfig
contains the network configuration database.
.TP
.RB < netconfig.h >
system header file describing the
.B netconfig
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR getnetconfig (3),
.BR getnetpath (3),
.BR getnetdir (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B /etc/netconfig
file is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.I "SVR 4.2"
such as
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
and
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
The
.B /etc/netconfig
file is only compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
for the purposes of populating the mapping for use by
.BR libnsl.so
in the
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
package.  Any other use fo the
.B /etc/netconfig
file is unsupported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2"
documentation.
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B /etc/netconfig
file first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
