'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strxnet.5.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/01/03 10:11:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/01/03 10:11:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: strxnet.5.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/01/03 10:11:50  brian
.\" - documentation updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/12/31 13:58:16  brian
.\" - added package manual page
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strxnet.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strxnet.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH STRXNET 5 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ System File Formats"
.SH NAME
.B @PACKAGE@
\- @PACKAGE_TITLE@ package
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
This is the
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ " ( @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ )
package for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
lfs
.]
.PP
OpenSS7
.I STREAMS
add-on packages are separate add-on packages to the
.B "Linux Fast-STREAMS"
.[
lfs
.]
release that provide additional functionality and protocol support not traditionally found on UNIX
systems, or which have tranditionally fallen into the domain of valud-add system software, or, in
this case, where functionality was optional or differently handled in a number of implementations.
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package is one of the several optional add-on packages that provide enhanced entwork protocol
support beyond that provided by the base
.I STREAMS
package.  This package provides support for communications protocols based on the
.IR "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)" ,
.BR tpi (7),
not provided by the base package.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package provides
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers, libraries, programs, init scripts, and daemons that implement networking
protocol based on the trasnport layer of the OSI reference model.
.PP
The package builds and installs the following
.I STREAMS
modules (as kernel modules):
.IP \(en \w'\(en\(em'u
.B streams_timod.ko
module
.RI \(lq timod \(rq.
.PD 0
.IP \(en
.B streams_tirdwr.ko
module
.RI \(lq tirdwr \(rq.
.PD
.PP
The following are
.I STREAMS
modules installed by the
.B @PACKAGE@
package:
.TP
.BR tirdwr (4)
The
.BR tirdwr (4)
module is a module that can be pushed over a Stream conforming to the
Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
that provides a
.BR read (2s)
.BR write (2s)
interface to the transport provider.
See
.BR tirdwr (4)
for more information.
.TP
.BR timod (4)
The
.BR timod (4)
module is a module that cooperates with the
.BR xti (3)
library and is pushed by the library over a Stream conforming to the
Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
that provides XTI/TLI library access to the trasnport provider.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package includes kernel modules,
.I SVR 4.2 STREAMS
driver, modules, libraries, utilities, test programs, daemons, and development environment for the
development and execution of
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
protocol stack components and applications for the
.I SVR 4.2 STREAMS
environment.
.PP
This distribution is only currently applicable to
.B Linux
2.4 and 2.6 kernels and was targeted at
.IR ix86 ", " x86_64 ", " ppc " and " ppc64
architectures, but should build and install for other architectures as well.
.PP
This package is complete and has been in production use for both
.I LiS
and
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
for a number of years.
.\"
.\"
.SH "PACKAGE_CONTENTS"
.PP
.HP
.BR strxnet (5)\ \- \ 
@PACKAGE_TITLE@ package.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR strxnet_mknod (8)\ \- \ 
create or remove
.I STREAMS
XNET device nodes.
.PD
.\"
.SS "XTI Modules"
.PP
.HP
.BR timod (4)\ \- \ 
a
.I STREAMS
XTI/TLI compatibility interface.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR tirdwr (4)\ \- \ 
a
.I STREAMS
XTI/TLI read write compatiblity module.
.PD
.\"
.SS "XTI/TLI Library"
.PP
.HP
.BR libxnet (3)\ \- \ 
XNS 5.2 XTI/TLI Library (libxnet).
.PD 0
.HP
.BR xnet (3)\ \- \ 
XNS 5.2 XTI/TLI Library (libxnet).
.HP
.BR xti (3)\ \- \ 
XNS 5.2 XTI/TLI Library (libxnet).
.HP
.BR netbuf (3)\ \- \ 
the XTI/TLI netbuf structure.
.HP
.BR t_accept (3)\ \- \ 
accept a connection request.
.HP
.BR t_addleaf (3)\ \- \ 
add a point to a point-to-multipoint connection.
.HP
.BR t_alloc (3)\ \- \ 
allocate a library structure.
.HP
.BR t_bind (3)\ \- \ 
bind to a transport endpoint.
.HP
.BR t_close (3)\ \- \ 
close a transport endpoint.
.HP
.BR t_connect (3)\ \- \ 
establish a transport connection.
.HP
.BR t_errlist (3)\ \- \ 
describe an XTI/TLI library error.
.HP
.BR t_errno (3)\ \- \ 
TLI error number.
.HP
.BR t_error (3)\ \- \ 
print an error message.
.HP
.BR t_errstr (3)\ \- \ 
describe an XTI/TLI library error.
.HP
.BR t_free (3)\ \- \ 
free an XTI/TLI library structure.
.HP
.BR t_getinfo (3)\ \- \ 
get protocol information.
.HP
.BR t_getprotaddr (3)\ \- \ 
get protocol addresses.
.HP
.BR t_getstate (3)\ \- \ 
get interface state.
.HP
.BR t_listen (3)\ \- \ 
listen for a transport connection request.
.HP
.BR t_look (3)\ \- \ 
look for a transport event.
.HP
.BR t_nerr (3)\ \- \ 
describe an XTI/TLI library error.
.HP
.BR t_open (3)\ \- \ 
open a transport endpoint.
.HP
.BR t_optmgmt (3)\ \- \ 
manage transport options.
.HP
.BR t_rcv (3)\ \- \ 
receive transport data.
.HP
.BR t_rcvconnect (3)\ \- \ 
receive connection request confirmation.
.HP
.BR t_rcvdis (3)\ \- \ 
receive abortive disconnect.
.HP
.BR t_rcvleafchange (3)\ \- \ 
receive addition of point to point-to-multipoint connection.
.HP
.BR t_rcvopt (3)\ \- \ 
receive unit data.
.HP
.BR t_rcvrel (3)\ \- \ 
acknowledge orderly release request.
.HP
.BR t_rcvreldata (3)\ \- \ 
acknowledge orderly release request with data.
.HP
.BR t_rcvudata (3)\ \- \ 
receive unit data.
.HP
.BR t_rcvuderr (3)\ \- \ 
receive unit data error.
.HP
.BR t_rcvv (3)\ \- \ 
receive data and scatter.
.HP
.BR t_rcvvopt (3)\ \- \ 
receive data with options and scatter.
.HP
.BR t_rcvvudata (3)\ \- \ 
receive unit data and scatter.
.HP
.BR t_removeleaf (3)\ \- \ 
remove a point from a point-to-multipoint connection.
.HP
.BR t_snd (3)\ \- \ 
send transport data.
.HP
.BR t_snddis (3)\ \- \ 
send abortive disconnect.
.HP
.BR t_sndopt (3)\ \- \ 
send transport data with options.
.HP
.BR t_sndrel (3)\ \- \ 
send orderly release.
.HP
.BR t_sndreldata (3)\ \- \ 
send orderly release with data.
.HP
.BR t_sndudata (3)\ \- \ 
send unit data.
.HP
.BR t_sndv (3)\ \- \ 
gather and send data.
.HP
.BR t_sndvopt (3)\ \- \ 
gather and send data with options.
.HP
.BR t_sndvudata (3)\ \- \ 
gather and send unit data.
.HP
.BR t_strerror (3)\ \- \ 
describe an XTI/TLI library error.
.HP
.BR t_sync (3)\ \- \ 
synchronize XTI/TLI library with TLI provider.
.HP
.BR t_sysconf (3)\ \- \ 
configure XTI/TLI library parameters.
.HP
.BR t_unbind (3)\ \- \ 
unbind a transport endpoint.
.PD
.\"
.\".SS "Sockets Library"
.\".PP
.\".HP
.\".BR libsocket (3)\ \- \ 
.\".PD 0
.\".HP
.\".BR accept (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR bind (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR connect (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR getpeername (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR getsockname (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR getsockopt (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR listen (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR recv (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR recvfrom (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR recvmsg (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR send (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR sendmsg (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR sendto (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR setsockopt (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR shutdown (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR socket (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR socketpair (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR sockets (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR sockmod (4)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR socksys (4)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR protosw (5)\ \- \ 
.\".PD
.\"
.\".SS "NSL Library"
.\".PP
.\".HP
.\".BR libxnsl (3)\ \- \ 
.\".PD 0
.\".HP
.\".BR xnsl (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR endnetconfig (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR endnetpath (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR freenetconfigent (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR getnetconfig (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR getnetconfigent (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR getnetpath (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR inetaddr (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR nc_perror (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR nc_sperror (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR netconfig (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR netdir (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR netdir_free (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR netdir_getbyaddr (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR netdir_getbyname (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR netdir_options (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR netdir_perror (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR netdir_sperror (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR netpath (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR setnetconfig (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR setnetpath (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR taddr2uaddr (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR uaddr2taddr (3)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR netconfig (5)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR netdir (5)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR test-xnsl (8)\ \- \ 
.\".HP
.\".BR test-xnsl_thr (8)\ \- \ 
.\".PD
.\"
.SS "TPI Interface"
.PP
.HP
.BR tpi (7)\ \- \ 
Transport Provider Interface
.PD 0
.HP
.BR T_ADDR_ACK (7)\ \- \ 
protocol address acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR T_ADDR_REQ (7)\ \- \ 
get protocol address request.
.HP
.BR T_BIND_ACK (7)\ \- \ 
bind protocol address acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR T_BIND_REQ (7)\ \- \ 
bind protocol address request.
.HP
.BR T_CAPABILITY_ACK (7)\ \- \ 
protocol capability acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR T_CAPABILITY_REQ (7)\ \- \ 
protocol capability acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR T_CONN_CON (7)\ \- \ 
connection confirm.
.HP
.BR T_CONN_IND (7)\ \- \ 
connect indication.
.HP
.BR T_CONN_REQ (7)\ \- \ 
connect request.
.HP
.BR T_CONN_RES (7)\ \- \ 
connection response.
.HP
.BR T_DATA_IND (7)\ \- \ 
data indication.
.HP
.BR T_DATA_REQ (7)\ \- \ 
data request.
.HP
.BR T_DISCON_IND (7)\ \- \ 
disconnect indication.
.HP
.BR T_DISCON_REQ (7)\ \- \ 
disconnect request.
.HP
.BR T_ERROR_ACK (7)\ \- \ 
error acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR T_EXDATA_IND (7)\ \- \ 
expedited data indication.
.HP
.BR T_EXDATA_REQ (7)\ \- \ 
expedited data request.
.HP
.BR T_INFO_ACK (7)\ \- \ 
protocol information acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR T_INFO_REQ (7)\ \- \ 
get transport protocol parameter sizes.
.HP
.BR T_OK_ACK (7)\ \- \ 
success acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR T_OPTDATA_IND (7)\ \- \ 
data indication with options.
.HP
.BR T_OPTDATA_REQ (7)\ \- \ 
data request with options.
.HP
.BR T_OPTMGMT_ACK (7)\ \- \ 
options management acknowledgement.
.HP
.BR T_OPTMGMT_REQ (7)\ \- \ 
options management.
.HP
.BR T_ORDREL_IND (7)\ \- \ 
orderly release indication.
.HP
.BR T_ORDREL_REQ (7)\ \- \ 
orderly release request.
.HP
.BR T_UDERROR_IND (7)\ \- \ 
unit data error indication.
.HP
.BR T_UNBIND_REQ (7)\ \- \ 
unbind protocol address request.
.HP
.BR T_UNITDATA_IND (7)\ \- \ 
unit data indication.
.HP
.BR T_UNITDATA_REQ (7)\ \- \ 
unit data request.
.PD
.PP
In addition to these manual pages, the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package installs an
.I Installation and Reference Manual
as well as a reprint of the
.I UNIX International
Transport Provider Interface specification.
.\"
.SS "Test Programs"
.HP
.BR test-timod (8)\ \- \ 
a test suite executable for the
.BR timod (4)
.I STREAMS
module.
.PD 0
.HP
.BR test-tirdwr (8)\ \- \ 
a test suite executable for the
.BR tirdwr (4)
.I STREAMS
module.
.HP
.BR test-xnet (8)\ \- \ 
a test suite executable for the
.BR xnet (3)
.I STREAMS
library.
.HP
.BR test-xnet_thr (8)\ \- \ 
a test suite executable for the
.BR xnet (3)
.I STREAMS
library.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.TP
.BR tirdwr (4)
a
.I STREAMS
XTI/TLI read write compatibility module.
.TP
.BR timod (4)
a
.I STREAMS
XTI/TLI compatibility interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH PREREQUISITES
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package requires the following packages to be installed:
.TP
.BR streams (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
base package.
.TP
.BR strcompat (5)
The
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
compatiblity modules package.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although previous release of the
.B @PACKAGE@
package were tested with
.IR LiS ,
.I LiS
is now deprecated and this release
.RB ( @VERSION@ )
of
.B @PACKAGE@
has not been tested with
.IR LiS .
.I The OpenSS7 Project
will no longer support this package for
.IR LiS :
please upgrade to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
.I Production
releases are releases that have received exhaustive testing within the project
and validated on specific distributions and architectures.
.I Production
release packages do not ship with known defects.  Please rememaber that there
is
.B NO WARRANTY
on public release packages.
.PP
.I Production
packages ship containing a list of validated distributions and architectures.
Full regression testing of any maintenance changes is performed.  Suitability
of software in this category for production use on the specified target
distributions and architectures is at the discretion of the user.  It should
not be necessary to perform validation tests on the set of supported target
systems before considering production use.
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
could possibly contain unknown defects.  This is a
.I production
release.  Nevertheless, some remaining unknown defects could possibly be
harmful.  Validation testing has been performed by the
.I OpenSS7 Project
and external entities on this software for the set of systems listed in the
release notes.  Nevertheless, the software might still fail to configure or
compile on other systems.  The
.I OpenSS7 Project
recommends that you validate this software for your target system before using
this software.  Use at your own risk.  Remember that there is
.BR "NO WARRANTY" .
(See the section
.RI \(lq "NO WARRANTY" \(rq
under the
.RI \(lq "GNU General Public License" \(rq,
in the manual.)
.PP
This software is
.I production
software.  As such, it is stable on validated systems but might still crash
your kernel in unique circumstances.  Installation of the software on a
non-validated distribution might mangle your header files or Linux
distribution in such a way as to make it unusable and rebooting the system
might not repair the problem.  You possibly lose all the data on your system.
Because this software stands a chance of crashing your kernel, the resulting
unstable system could possibly destroy computer hardware or peripherals making
them unusable.  You might void the warranty on any system on which you run
this software.
.B YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package has been tested with a wide array of production
.B Linux
distributions, kernels, and target architectures, and is considered production grade by
.IR "The OpenSS7 Project" .
At the time of release, the
.B @PACKAGE@
package had no known bugs.  Problems can be reported to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
Please, however, use the included
.B send-pr
script for generating actionable problem reports.
.PP
With the exception of packages not originally created by the
.IR "OpenSS7 Project" ,
the
.I OpenSS7 Project
software does not ship with known bugs in any release stage except
.RI \(lq "pre-alpha" \(rq.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
had no known bugs at the time of release.
.\"
.SS "Problem Report Guidelines"
.PP
Problem reports in the following categories should include a log file as
indicated in the table below:
.TP
.B ./configure
A problem with the configuration process occurs that causes the
.B ./configure
command to fail.  The problem report must include the
.I config.log
file that was generated by
.BR configure .
.TP
.B make compile.log
A problem with the build process occurs that causes the
.BR make (1)
command to fail.
Perform
.B make clean
and then
.B make compile.log
and attach the
.I config.log
and
.I compile.log
files to the problem report.
.TP
.B sudo make install.log
A problem occurs with
.B sudo make install
that causes it to fail.
Perform
.B sudo make uninstall
and
.B sudo make install.log
and
attach the
.IR config.log ", " compile.log ", " check.log ", and " install.log
files to the problem report.
.TP
.RB [ sudo "] " "make installcheck.log"
A problem occurs with the
.B make installcheck
target that causes the test suite to fail.  Attach the resulting
.IR tests/testsuite.log " and " installcheck.log
file to the problem report.  There is no need to attach the other files as
they are included in
.IR tests/testsuite.log .
.TP
.RB [ sudo "] " "make uninstall.log"
A problem occurs with the
.B make uninstall
target that causes the test suite to fail.  Perform
.B sudo make uninstall.log
and attach the
.IR config.log ", " compile.log ", " check.log ", " install.log ", " installcheck.log ", " tests/testsuite.log " and " uninstall.log
file to the problem report.
.TP
.RB [ sudo "] " "make remove.log"
A problem occurs with the
.B make remove
target that causes the test suite to fail.  Perform
.B sudo make remove.log
and attach the
.IR config.log ", " compile.log ", " check.log ", " install.log ", " installcheck.log ", " tests/testsuite.log " and " remove.log
file to the problem report.
.PP
For other problems that occur during the use of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package, please write a test case for the test suite that recreates the
problem if one does not yet exist and provide a test program patch with the
problem report.  Also include whatever log files are generated by the kernel
.RB ( cmn_err "(9), or " strlog (9)),
or by the
.BR strerr "(8) or " strace (1)
facilities
.RB ( strlog (9)).
.SS "Generating Problem Reports"
.PP
.I The OpenSS7 Project
uses the
.B GNU GNATS
system for problem
reporting.  Although the
.B send-pr
tool from the
.B GNU GNATS
package can be used for bug reporting to the project's
.B GNATS
database using electronic mail, it is not always convenient to download and
install the
.B GNATS
system to gain access to the
.B send-pr
tool.
.PP
Therefore, the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package provides the
.B send-pr
shell script that can be used for problem reporting.  The
.B send-pr
shell script can invoked directly and is a work-alike for the
.B GNU send-pr
tool.
.PP
The
.B send-pr
tool takes the same flags and can be used in the same fashion, however,
whereas
.B send-pr
is an interactive tool
.RB ( send-pr
launches the user's
.I EDITOR
to edit the problem report before submitting it),
.B send-pr
is also able to perform batch processing.  Whereas
.B send-pr
takes its field information from local databases or from using the
.B query-pr
C-language program to query a remote database, the
.B send-pr
tool has the field database internal to the tool.
.PP
Problem reports can be generate using
.BR make (1),
see
.RI \(lq "Problem Report Targets" \(rq,
in the manual.  An example of how simple it is to generate a problem report is
illustrated in
.RI \(lq "Example 1" \(rq,
below.
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
% make pr
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: send-pr:  send-pr was invoked to generate an external report.  An
SEND-PR: automated problem report has been created in the file named
SEND-PR: 'problem.pr' in the current directory.  This problem report can
SEND-PR: be sent to bugs@openss7.org by calling this script as
SEND-PR: '/home/brian/os7/scripts/send-pr --file="problem.pr"'.
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: It is possible to edit some of the fields before sending on the
SEND-PR: problem report.  Please remember that there is NO WARRANTY.  See
SEND-PR: the file 'COPYING' in the top level directory.
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: Please do not send confidential information to the bug report
SEND-PR: address.  Inspect the file 'problem.pr' for confidential
SEND-PR: information before mailing.
SEND-PR:
% vim problem.pr  # <--- follow instructions at head of file
% make send-pr
\s+1\fP
.fi
.ce 1
\fBExample 1:\fI Invoking Problem Report Generation\fP
.RE
.PP
Using the
.B make pr
target to generate a problem report has the advantages that it will assemble
any available
.I *.log
files in the build directory and attach them to the problem report.
.\"
.SS "Automatic Problem Reports"
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package also provides a feature for automatic problem report generation that
meets the problem report submission guidelines detailed in the preceding
sections.
.PP
Whenever a logging makefile target (see
.RI \(lq "Logging Targets" \(rq,
in the manual) is invoked, if the primary target fails, the
.B send-pr
shell script is invoked to automatically generate a problem report file
suitable for the corresponding target (as described above under see
.RI \(lq "Problem Report Guidelines" \(rq,
in the manual).  An example is shown in
.RI \(lq "Example 2" \(rq,
below.
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
% make compile.log
...
...
make[5]: *** [libXNSdrvs_a-ip.o] Error 1
make[5]: Leaving directory `/u6/buildel4/strxns'
make[4]: *** [all-recursive] Error 1
make[4]: Leaving directory `/u6/buildel4/strxns'
make[3]: *** [all] Error 2
make[3]: Leaving directory `/u6/buildel4/strxns'
make[2]: *** [all-recursive] Error 1
make[2]: Leaving directory `/u6/buildel4'
make[1]: *** [all] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/u6/buildel4'
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: send-pr:  Make target compile.log failed in the compile stage.  An
SEND-PR: automated problem report has been created in the file named
SEND-PR: 'problem.pr' in the current directory.  This problem report can
SEND-PR: be sent to bugs@openss7.org by calling 'make send-pr'.
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: It is possible to edit some of the fields before sending on the
SEND-PR: problem report.  Please remember that there is NO WARRANTY.  See
SEND-PR: the file 'COPYING' in the top level directory.
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: Please do not send confidential information to the bug report
SEND-PR: address.  Inspect the file 'problem.pr' for confidential
SEND-PR: information before mailing.
SEND-PR:
% vim problem.pr  # <--- follow instructions at head of file
% make send-pr
\s+1\fP
.fi
.ce 1
\fBExample 2:\fI Problem Report from Failed Logging Target\fR
.RE
.\"
.SS "Stand Alone Problem Reports"
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package installs the
.B send-pr
script and its configuration file
.I send-pr.config
in
.I /usr/libexec/streams
along with the validation
.BR testsuite ,
see
.RI \(lq "Test Suites" \(rq,
in the manual.  As with the
.BR testsuite ,
this allows the
.B send-pr
script to be used for problem report generation on an installed system that
does not have a build directory.
.PP
An example of invoking the package
.B testsuite
and then generating a problem report for failed cases is shown in
.RI \(lq "Example 3" \(rq,
below.
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
% [sudo] /usr/libexec/streams/testsuite
% # test cases failed...
% /usr/libexec/streams/send-pr
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: send-pr:  send-pr was invoked to generate an external report.  An
SEND-PR: automated problem report has been created in the file named
SEND-PR: 'problem.pr' in the current directory.  This problem report can
SEND-PR: be sent to bugs@openss7.org by calling this script as
SEND-PR: '/usr/libexec/streams/send-pr --file problem.pr'.
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: It is possible to edit some of the fields before sending on the
SEND-PR: problem report.  Please remember that there is NO WARRANTY.  See
SEND-PR: the file 'COPYING' in the top level directory.
SEND-PR:
SEND-PR: Please do not send confidential information to the bug report
SEND-PR: address.  Inspect the file 'problem.pr' for confidential
SEND-PR: information before mailing.
SEND-PR:
% vim problem.pr  # <--- follow instructions at head of file
% /usr/libexec/streams/send-pr --file problem.pr
\s-1\fP
.fi
.ce 1
\fBExample 3:\fI Invoking \fBsend-pr\fI Directly\fR
.RE
.PP
The advantage of the approach shown in the example is that the
`send-pr' script is capable of collecting the `testsuite.log' file and
the failed test cases and debugging scripts from the `testsuite.dir'
directory and including them in the problem report, as well as all
package pertinent information from the installed `send-pr.config'.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR xti (3),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR timod (4),
.BR tirdwr (4),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR strxnet_mknod (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package is compatible with
.I SVR 4.2
and systems based on
.I SVR 4.2
such as
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides compatibility with all implementations of the XTI library in
accordance with XNS 5.2
.[
xns
.]
specifications.
.IP \(em
The
.BR tirdwr (4)
module is compatibile with specifications for the module as implemented by
.I SVR 4
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" .
Portable applications may use the interface to the
.BR tirdwr (4)
module directly.
.IP \(em
The
.BR timod (4)
module is designed to operated with the XTI/TLI library implementation
provided in this package but might provide some compatibility with other
implementations of the
.BR timod (4)
module.
Portable applications will not rely on any particular behavior of the
.BR timod (4)
module and will only use XTI/TLI library functions for accessing the trasnport
provider.
.IP \(em
The
.BR tpi (7)
interface is compatible with all implementations of the TPI interface in
accordance with TPI.
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
Portable applications may use the interface to the
Transport Provider Interface,
.BR tpi (7),
directly.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR TPI ,
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.IR "XNS 5.2" ,
.[
xns 5.2
.]
.IR UNIX95 .
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-timod (8),
.BR test-tirdwr (8),
.BR test-xnet "(8) and "
.BR test-xnet_thr (8),
test case executables and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
originally started out as part of the
.BR strinet (5)
package and was originally written for
.IR LiS .
The library and the
.BR timod (4)
and
.BR tirdwr (4)
modules were split from the
.BR strinet (5)
package and placed in their own
.BR strxnet (5)
package.  NSL library and Socket library functions were added to the
.BR strxnet (5)
package initially, but subsequently split to separate
.BR strsock (5)
and
.BR strnsl (5)
packages.
What remains in the
.BR strxnet (5)
package is the XTI/TLI library, header files, and cooperating
.I STREAMS
modules, also TPI interface header files and documentation.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package is a stable, production grade release.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
.PP
The XTI/TLI library is a stable production release and is largely in
maintenance mode.  No additional development is planned.  See the
.RI \(lq TODO \(rq
file in the release for detailed information.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
