'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strcompat_mknod.8.man,v 0.9.2.2 2005/03/30 13:38:32 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:38:32 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH STREAMS_MKNOD 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B streams_mknod
\- create or remove \fISTREAMS\fR ddevice nodes
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBstreams_mknod\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBstreams_mknod\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-r\fR|\fB--remove\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstreams_mknod\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstreams_mknod\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP 12
\fBstreams_mknod\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B streams_mknod
is a small utility program that can be used to create or remove primary
.I STREAMS
device nodes.

.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
.BR -r ", " --remove
Remove
.I STREAMS
device nodes instead of creating them.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
When this option is encountered,
print
usage
information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
.BR -V ", " --version
When this option is encountered,
print
version
information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
.BR -C ", " --copying
When this option is encountered,
print
copyright and copying
information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed on
.BR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message
is printed on
.BR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.BR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B streams_mknod
is created when the
.I STREAMS
package is configured.  A version of
.B streams_mknod
from one version of the
.I STREAMS
package release might be incompatible with that of another version.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example will create all necessary
.I STREAMS
primary device nodes:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#> stream_mknod
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The following example will remove all
.I STREAMS
primary device nodes:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#> stream_mknod -r
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.B streams_mknod
creates or removes the following devices:
.TP
.B /dev/clone
the
.BR clone (4)
device.
.PD 0
.TP
.B /dev/fifo
the
.BR fifo (4)
device.
.TP
.B /dev/loop
the
.BR loop (4)
device.
.TP
.B /dev/sad
the
.BR sad (4)
device.
.TP
.B /dev/nsdev
the
.BR nsdev (4)
device.
.TP
.B /dev/echo
the
.BR echo (4)
device.
.TP
.B /dev/nuls
the
.BR nuls (4)
device.
.TP
.B /dev/pipe
the
.BR pipe (4)
device.
.TP
.B /dev/strlog
the
.BR strlog (4)
device.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/streams_mknod
contains the
.B streams_mknod
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mknod (2),
.BR MAKEDEV (8),
.BR makedev (8),
.BR clone (4),
.BR fifo (4),
.BR loop (4),
.BR sad (4),
.BR nsdev (4),
.BR echo (4),
.BR nuls (4),
.BR pipe (4),
.BR strlog (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B streams_mknod
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B streams_mknod
is an
.IR LiS -specific
command.
.B streams_mknod
is provided for compatibility with
.I LiS
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em
.I LiS
does not document long options.
Portable programs should avoid the use of long options.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibility with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.I LiS
documentation.
.[
LiS
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B streams_mknod
first appeared in
.IR LiS .
.[
LiS
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

