@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo tw=100 nocin nosi
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: funding.texi,v 0.9.2.8 2006/09/18 00:56:18 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
@c Copyright (c) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/09/18 00:56:18 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

As with most open source projects, this project would not have been possible without the valiant
efforts and productive software of the @cite{@uref{http://www.fsf.org/,, Free Software Foundation}}
and the @cite{@uref{http://www.kernel.org/,, Linux Kernel Community}}.

@menu
* Sponsors::			Sponsors
* Contributors::		Contributors
@end menu

@node Sponsors
@unnumberedsubsec Sponsors
@cindex sponsors

Funding for completion of the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package was
provided in part by:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @bullet{} @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,, OpenSS7 Corporation}
@end multitable

@noindent
Additional funding for @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, The OpenSS7 Project} was provided by:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @bullet{} @uref{http://www.openss7.com/,, OpenSS7 Corporation}
@item @tab @bullet{} @uref{http://www.lmco.com/,, Lockheed Martin Co.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @uref{http://www.pti.com/,, Performance Technologies Inc.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @uref{http://www.motorola.com/,, Motorola}
@item @tab @bullet{} @uref{http://www.hob.de/,, HOB International}
@item @tab @bullet{} @uref{http://www.comverse.com/,, Comverse Ltd.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @uref{http://www.sonus.com/,, Sonus Networks Inc.}
@item @tab @bullet{} @uref{http://www.francetelecom.fr/,, France Telecom}
@item @tab @bullet{} @uref{http://www.ss8.com/,, SS8 Networks Inc}
@item @tab @bullet{} @uref{http://www.nortel.com/,, Nortel Networks}
@item @tab @bullet{} @uref{http://www.verisign.com/,, Verisign}
@end multitable

@node Contributors
@unnumberedsubsec Contributors
@cindex contributors

The primary contributor to the @cite{OpenSS7 @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}} package is
@email{bidulock@@openss7.org, Brian F. G. Bidulock}.  The following is a list of significant
contributors to @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, The OpenSS7 Project}:

@multitable @columnfractions .05 .95
@item @tab @minus{} Per Berquist
@item @tab @minus{} John Boyd
@item @tab @minus{} Chuck Winters
@item @tab @minus{} Peter Courtney
@item @tab @minus{} Tom Chandler
@item @tab @minus{} Gurol Ackman
@item @tab @minus{} Kutluk Testicioglu
@item @tab @minus{} John Wenker
@item @tab @minus{} Others
@end multitable
