@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: versions.texi,v 0.9.2.7 2007-01-09 22:19:34 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2007-01-09 22:19:34 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@c
@c Handle these version numbers right here so that when they are changed here they are changed
@c everywhere.
@c
@c @set VERSION_EXTRA	.rc3
@c @set VERSION_OPENSS7	0.9.2.D@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_SCTP	0.2.24@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_IPERF	2.0.5@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_STREAMS	0.9.2.1@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_STRCOMPAT	0.9.2.4@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_STRUTIL	0.9.2.4@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_STRBCM	0.9.2.2@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_STRTTY	0.9.2.1@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_STRXNS	0.9.2.4@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_STRXNET	0.9.2.9@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_STRNSL	0.9.2.1@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_STRSOCK	0.9.2.1@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_STRINET	0.9.2.4@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_STRSCTP	0.9.2.6@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_STRISO	0.9.2.1@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_STRCHAN	0.9.2.1@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_STRISDN	0.9.2.1@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_STRSS7	0.9a.5@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_SIGTRAN	0.9.2.1@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_STRVOIP	0.9.2.1@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_NETPERF	2.3.4@value{VERSION_EXTRA}
@c @set VERSION_LIS	2.18.4@value{VERSION_EXTRA}

@set VERSION_OPENSS7	0.9.2.E
@set VERSION_SCTP	0.2.25
@set VERSION_IPERF	2.0.6
@set VERSION_STREAMS	0.9.2.2
@set VERSION_STRCOMPAT	0.9.2.5
@set VERSION_STRUTIL	0.9.2.5
@set VERSION_STRBCM	0.9.2.3
@set VERSION_STRTTY	0.9.2.2
@set VERSION_STRXNS	0.9.2.5
@set VERSION_STRXNET	0.9.2.10
@set VERSION_STRNSL	0.9.2.2
@set VERSION_STRSOCK	0.9.2.2
@set VERSION_STRINET	0.9.2.5
@set VERSION_STRSCTP	0.9.2.7
@set VERSION_STRISO	0.9.2.2
@set VERSION_STRCHAN	0.9.2.2
@set VERSION_STRISDN	0.9.2.2
@set VERSION_STRSS7	0.9a.6
@set VERSION_SIGTRAN	0.9.2.2
@set VERSION_STRVOIP	0.9.2.2
@set VERSION_NETPERF	2.3.5
@set VERSION_LIS	2.18.5

