'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: bufmod.4.man,v 0.9.2.1 2005/11/01 11:20:57 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/01 11:20:57 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH BUFMOD 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Modules"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B bufmod
\- \fISTREAMS\fR null module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 8
.BI "int " fd ;
.HP 8
.BI "int open(" \*(lq\fR/dev/nuls\fP\*(rq ", " \fR0\fP );
.HP 8
.BI "int ioctl(" fd ", " I_PUSH ", " \*(lqbufmod\*(rq );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B bufmod
is a
.I STREAMS
module that is pushed over any
.IR Stream ,
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4)
or
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR fifo (4).
.PP
Aside from being a
.I STREAMS
module,
.B bufmod
performs no actions other than to perform flow control and queueing of messages.
All messages passed from the
.I Stream head
toward the
.B bufmod
module are passed on downstream from the
.B bufmod
write-side
.B put
procedure (with
.BR putnext (9))
when flow control conditions are not in effect.  When flow controlled, messages are placed on the
write-side queue to be scheduled from the module's
.B service
procedure.
All messages received from the driver,
are passed on upstream from the
read-side
.B put
procedure, or scheduled for the read-side
.B service
procedure under flow control.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The primary purpose of
.B bufmod
is as a test module for use with the
.BR test-streams (8)
conformance test program,
and the
.BR perftest (8)
performance benchmarking program.  The other purpose of
.B bufmod
is as an example skeleton for a
.I STREAMS
pushable module.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR bufmod
is implementation-specific to the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The source code for
.B bufmod
serves as an example skeleton for a
.I STREAMS
pushable module.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.B bufmod
is a
.I STREAMS
module named
.IR \*(lqbufmod\*(rq .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR open (2s),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR putnext (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B bufmod
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B bufmod
is compatible with the null module described in the
.IR "SVR 4.0" ", \*(lq" "STREAMS Programmer's Guide" ",\*(rq"
.[
svr4spg
%P Section 6.1.1.1, "Null Module Example"
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The null module example of
.I "SVR 4.0"
does not queue messages and has no
.B service
procedure.  See also
.BR nullmod (4).
.IP \(em
.B bufmod
is specific to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
and will not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
modules, drivers and applications programs.
.IP \(em
The
.I SVR 4.0 SPG
.[
svr4spg
.]
does not name this module.  The name
.B bufmod
was chosen for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.IP \(em
.B bufmod
is used as an example skeleton module and for use by the
.BR test-streams (8)
conformance test program, and the
.BR perftest (8)
performance benchmarking program.  It will not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
modules, drivers or applications.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.0" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
Conformance is not verified.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B bufmod
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.0" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
