'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: capi.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/03/07 22:49:10 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/07 22:49:10 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CAPI 4 "$Date: 2004/03/07 22:49:10 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 ISDN Devices"
.SH NAME
.B capi
\- Common ISDN API (CAPI) Device Driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/cci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/isdni.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/isdni_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/capi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/capi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " capi_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B CAPI
is an implementation of the COMMON-ISDN-API (CAPI).
The purpose of the
.B CAPI
driver is twofold:
.RS
.IP 1. 4
to provide the Call Control Interface (CCI) to
.B Linux
CAPI devices.
.IP 2.
to provide CAPI capabilities to
.BR OpenSS7 \(tm
Call Control Interface (CCI) ISDN devices.
.RE
.PP
.B CAPI
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR isdn (4)
streams are linked under the
.B CAPI
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide CAPI access to
.BR isdn (4)
devices.  Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR capi_ioctl (4)
IO controls.  This function is normally performed by the ISDN configuration
daemon,
.BR isdnconfd (8).
See also,
.BR isdn (8).
.PP
In addition, the
.B CAPI
driver provides on-demand access to CAPI devices using the Call Control
Interface (CCI),
.BR cci (7)
integrated for CAPI as described in
.BR cci_capi (7),
the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) described in
.BR dpli (7),
and the Multiplex Interface (MXI) described in
.BR mxi (7).
This is performed internally using the
.B Linux
kernel CAPI interface.
.PP
.B CAPI
provides the following stream types.  To select one of the stream types, the
.I device
argument to the
.BR open (2)
call can be one of the following:
.TP
.I /dev/capi
This device provides a
.BR UNIX \(rg
based CAPI 2.0 interface using
.IR STREAMS (4).
This device provides the CAPI 2.0 interface described in the COMMON-ISDN-API
Part III for the
.BR UNIX \(rg
operating system.
This device can be used to access both
.BR Linux \(rg
CAPI devices as well as
.BR OpenSS7 \(tm
ISDN devices using the COMMON-ISDN-API Version 2.0.
.TP
.I /dev/capi-cci
This device provides the CAPI protocol services using the CC-primitives of the
Call Control Interface (CCI) described in
.BR cci (7),
as interpreted for use with
.B CAPI
as described in
.BR cci_capi (7).
This interface is suitable both for use with other SS7 modules and drivers, as
well as with the
.BR cframe (3)
library using the
.B OpenSwitch
call framework.
.TP
.I /dev/capi-dl
This devices provides CAPI protocol services using the DL-primitives of the
Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI) described in
.BR dlpi (7).
This interface is equivalent to the
.BR dl (4)
driver for
.BR ISDN (4),
for CAPI devices that are capable of providing direct access to D-channel
signalling.  This permits the CAPI device to be linked under the
.BR isdn (4)
multiplexing driver for use in the
.BR OpenSS7 \(tm
.BR ISDN (4)
stack.
.TP
.I /dev/capi-ch
This device provides
.B CAPI
device bearer channel access using the CH-primitives of the Channel Interface
described in
.BR chi (7).
This interface is suitable for use with
.BR MG (4)
Media Gateway drivers, or to be used directly as a channel for other drivers
and modules.
.TP
.I /dev/capi-mx
This device provides
.B CAPI
device bearer channel access using the MX-primitives of the Multiplex
Interface described in
.BR mxi (7).
This interface is suitable for use with
.BR MG (4)
Media Gateway drivers, or to be used directly as a multiplex for other drivers
and modules.
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Not all Linux CAPI devices are necessarily able to provide direct D-channel access.
Those Linux CAPI devices that are capable of direct D-channel access are best used
via the DLPI interface
.RI ( /dev/capi-dl )
and linked under a
.BR isdn (4)
multiplexing driver.
.PP
Linux CAPI devices that are not capable of direct D-channel access are best
used via the CCI interface
.RI ( /dev/capi-cci )
and used directly.
.SH BUGS
.PP
This driver has not yet been written.
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/isdni.h> ,
.BR <ss7/isdni_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/capi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/capi_ioctl.h> .
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/capi ,
.IR /dev/capi-cci ,
.IR /dev/capi-dl ,
.IR /dev/capi-ch ,
.IR /dev/capi-mx .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ISDN (4),
.BR isdnconfd (8),
.BR cci (7),
.BR cci_isdn (7),
.BR cci_capi (7),
.BR isdn (4).
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This is Version 2.0 of the COMMON-ISDN-API interface.
.PP
CCI interfaces are consistent with CCI Revision 0.8.2.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
capi2p1
.]
.[
capi2p2
.]
.[
capi2p3
.]
.[
capi2p4
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
