'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: clone.4.man,v 0.9.2.17 2008-04-28 12:53:40 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:40 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: clone.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.17  2008-04-28 12:53:40  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.16  2006/04/05 09:43:44  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CLONE 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B clone
\- the \fISTREAMS\fP clone driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <fcntl.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int " fd " = open(" /dev/xxx_clone ", " oflags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B clone
pseudo-device driver is the traditional
.I STREAMS
mechanism for dynamic assignment of minor device numbers to
.I STREAMS
drivers.
.SS
Traditional Cloning
.PP
When a device node with the
.B clone
major device number is opened, the
.B clone
pseudo-device driver opens the
.I STREAMS
device associated with the device number formed by using the
.B clone
device minor number as the major device number, and zero (0) as the minor
device number.
Where
.I dev
is the device number associated with the
.B clone
device node, the
.I STREAMS
device opened have the device number
.BI makedevice(getminor( dev "), " 0 ).
.PP
Upon locating the
.I STREAMS
device associated with this redirected device number, the
.B clone
pseudo-device driver calls the
.BR qopen (9)
routine of the redirected device with the
.I sflag
argument to the open set to
.BR CLONEOPEN .
This value of
.I sflag
tells the redirected device driver that it should assign a new, unique, minor device
number to the stream and return it in the
.I devp
argument to the
.BR qopen (9)
call.
Upon successful return from the
.BR qopen (9)
call on the redirected device, the
.B clone
driver takes all the necessary step to ensure that subsequent file operations
on the resulting file descriptor act on the redirected device rather than the
.B clone
pseudo-device.
.SS
New Cloning
.PP
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
also supports the new cloning method in addition to the traditional cloning
method.  Under the new cloning method, even when the
.I sflag
argument to
.BR qopen (9)
is set to
.BR DRVOPEN ,
the
.I STREAMS
driver is permitted to return a minor device number different from the minor
device number passed to the driver's
.BR qopen (9)
procedure
in the
.I devp
argument.
For this to function properly, two conditions must occur:
.IP 1. \w'1.\(em'u
There must be no stream head already assigned to the minor device number
passed in the
.I devp
argument to
.BR qopen (9).
The
.BR qopen (9)
procedure should check to ensure that there is no
.I q->q_ptr
assignment already made to the passed in read queue before attempting to
assign a minor device number.
.IP ""
This condition can be relaxed if the minor device node is marked as clone
device
(either with the
.B DF_CLONE
flag on minor node registration or creation, or with the
.B SAP_CLONE
flag to the
.BR "STREAMS Administrative Driver" ,
.BR sad (4)).
In that case,
.I STREAMS
will always allocate and assign a new stream head before calling
.BR qopen (9),
and will always set the
.B CLONEOPEN
flag in the
.I sflag
argument.
.IP 2.
The resulting device number returned to the
.I devp
argument must not yet have a stream head allocated.
If this condition is not met, multiple stream heads will be allocated to the
same minor device number.
See
.RI \(lq NOTICES \(rq,
below.
.PP
Therefore, it is not necessary to use
.B clone
devices at all.
Under
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" ,
any
.I STREAMS
device can return a different minor device number when opened with a new
stream, regardless of the setting of the
.I sflag
to
.BR qopen (9).
This means that a
.I STREAMS
driver can always treat minor device number zero (0) as a clone minor
device and assign a new, unique, non-zero minor device number.  This removes
the need to create special
.B clone
device nodes in the file system using
.BR mknod (1)
as described below under
.IR \*(lqUSAGE\*(rq .
Rather, a minor device node with minor device number zero can be used to
represent the clone device instead.
.SS
Super Cloning
.PP
In an attempt to remove
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
dependence on statically assigned major device numbers, yet permit demand
kernel module loading, the
.B clone
pseudo-device driver also supports super cloning.  Super cloning is a
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
facility.
Under super cloning if the clone device is opened with a minor device number
equal to the
.BR "Named STREAMS Device" ,
.BR nsdev (4),
the creation of the the resulting device
number is the same as under traditional cloning (i.e. the device number is
formed with the major device number of the
.BR nsdev (4)
and the minor number zero (0)); however, when the open is chained to the
.BR nsdev (4),
with the
.B CLONEOPEN
.I sflag
set, the
.BR nsdev (4)
will redetermine the major device number according to the name of the original
clone device that was opened.
.PP
This approach permits static allocation of a single major device number for
the
.BR "Named STREAMS Device" ,
.BR nsdev (4),
and obviating the need for any further static major device number assignments.
The
.B Named STREAMS Device
is a unique feature of
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
For details on this somewhat different and unique approach to
.B clone
devices that also accommodates the dynamic assignment of major device numbers,
see
.BR nsdev (4).
.SS
Minor Device Assignment
.PP
Although traditionally it was expected of drivers opened with
.B CLONEOPEN
that a new, unique, minor device number be assigned to the stream, this can be
problematic, particularly where the number of minor device numbers available
per major device number is limited.  (On
.B Linux 2.4
kernels, this is
.B MAX_CHRDEV
or 256 minor device numbers.)
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
provides several solutions device number limitations including
extended minor device numbers,
internal minor device numbers,
a mountable shadow special file system,
and
overlapping minor device ranges.
See the
.RI \(lq "Device Numbering" \(rq
section of the
.BR dev_t (9),
for additional information on device numbering schemes supported by
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.PP
For maximum compatibility with other implementations,
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
take the approach of allowing a device driver to assign multiple streams to
the same minor device number when necessary.  This relaxes the requirement
that the minor device number returned to a
.B CLONEOPEN
be new or unique.  In fact, an existing minor device number can be returned.
This has two ramification on the explicit opening of minor devices:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
If a minor device number is explicitly opened and the device number is
marked with device flags
.BR DF_CLONE ,
or the device has been marked as a clone minor with the
.BR SAP_CLONE
flag to the
.I STREAMS
Administrative Driver
.BR sad (4),
then a new stream will always be created before calling
.BR qopen (9)
and
.I sflag
will always be set to
.BR CLONEOPEN .
.IP (2)
If a minor device number is explicitly opened and the device number is not
marked as a clone minor (i.e.
.BR DF_CLONE
is not used and
.BR SAP_CLONE
has not been performed on the minor device), then if one or more streams are
already associated with the minor device number, the most recently created
stream is accessed and the
.BR qopen (9)
procedure is called with an
.I sflag
of
.BR DRVOPEN .
.PP
This is also true of minor device nodes opened using the
.B clone
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B clone
is typically used to provide dynamic minor device number assignment.  To
accomplish this, the driver installation performs the following steps:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
Write the
.I STREAMS
device driver to accept clone opens with
.B CLONEOPEN
set in
.I sflag
to the
.BR qopen (9)
procedure.
The driver assigns a new, unique minor device number when opened in this
fashion.
.IP (2)
Create a device node in the file system using
.BR mknod (1)
that has the major device number of the
.B clone
pseudo-device driver and a minor device number that corresponds to the major
device number of the driver.
.IP (3)
Programs performing
.BR open (2s)
with the path of the
.B clone
device node created in this fashion will perform a
.B CLONEOPEN
on the device.
In this fashion, upon each open of the
.B clone
device, a new
.B CLONEOPEN
will be performed on the real device and a new, unique minor device number
will be associated with the resulting file descriptor.
.PP
This process is often useful for
pseudo-device drivers where all minor device nodes are effectively the same.
To obtain a new minor device node, the
.B clone
device is opened.  To open an existing device node, the information returned
from
.BR fstat (2)
on the resulting file descriptor can be used to identify the minor node for an
explicit open of the minor device node.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
If there is not a
.I STREAMS
device associated with the resulting device number,
attempting to open the resulting character special device will result in the
.B Linux
kernel attempting to load the kernel module with the name (or alias)
.BI char-major- nnn\fR,
where
.I nnn
is the ASCII representation of the major device number sought.
This can be an undesirable side effect of the major device number is not
associated with a
.I STREAMS
device.  To avoid undesirable side effects, care should be taken to not create
.B clone
device nodes in the file system with minor device numbers that do not correspond
to major device numbers of
.I STREAMS
devices.
.PP
Super cloning
(see
.BR nsdev (4))
and use of the
.B spec
filesystem (see
.BR specfs (5))
are other possible solutions to avoid undesirable side effects.
.PP
Because a minor device number is assigned to the
Shadow Special Filesystem inode
(see
.BR specfs (5))
and is assigned to the file system resident
.B clone
device node, the results of
.BR stat (2)
on the
.B clone
device will yield a different device number than the results of
.BR fstat (2)
on the file descriptor resulting from an open of the
.B clone
device.
.BR stat (2)
takes the device number from the device node in the file system, whereas,
.BR fstat (2)
takes the device number from the Shadow Special inode corresponding to the
.I STREAMS
special file.
This is normal
.IR UNIX \(rg
behaviour.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B clone
is not implemented as a normal
.I STREAMS
driver: it is implemented as a shadow special device node under
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
lfs
.]
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
shadow special device nodes call
.BR clone_open ()
from
.BR cdev_open ()
instead of
.BR spec_open ()
permitting the
.B clone
device to intercept and redirect the open call to the appropriate device.
This is consistent with the descriptions of the internal
.BR clone_open ()
under
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
magic
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
If the following is performed to create the device (assuming that major device
number 74 is the major device number of the Clone Device):
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
$> mknod -m 0666 /dev/streams c 74 56
\s+1\fP
.fi
.sp
then opening
.RB \*(lq /dev/streams \*(rq
will result in opening minor device number
.I 0
of the
.RB \*(lq streams \*(rq
device (character major 56) with the
.I sflag
argument to
.BR qopen (9)
begin set to
.BR CLONEOPEN .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.B clone
provides for the creation of
.B clone
devices with the clone major device number using various names in the file
system.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mknod (1),
.BR qopen (9),
.BR open (2s),
.BR stat (2),
.BR fstat (2),
.BR sad (4),
.BR nsdev (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B clone
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B clone
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR LiS ,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
(and to my knowledge
.IR Solaris \(rg)
does not support the concept of clone minors.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg
supports the
.B STR_NEWCLONING
flag in the
.B strconf_t
structure passed to
.BR str_install ()
to indicate that a driver is capable of the new cloning method.  See
.BR str_install_AIX (9)
for more information.
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
supports both the concept of clone minors as well as providing for clone
channels which is more in line with the behaviour of
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
This should not, however, cause incompatibility problems with
.I LiS
or
.IR Solaris \(rg
because correctly written drivers for these systems have the requirement that
they assign a new and unique minor device number when drivers are opened with
.BR CLONEOPEN .
.IP \(em 4
The ability for a normal minor device node to perform a clone open when
explicitly opened with
.I sflag
.BR DRVOPEN
is a characteristic of
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
that is also supported by
.IR LiS .
I do not know whether
.IR Solaris \(rg
or
.IR UnixWare \(rg
supports this feature in the same fashion.
This should not affect user programs, because user programs open these devices
with pathnames in the file system and should have no knowledge of the major
device numbers assigned to
.B clone
and other devices.
.PP
The
.B clone
device provided with
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
release must be used.  Other
.B clone
device drivers (e.g. from
.IR LiS )
are incompatible with the
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
executive.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
Conformance is verified using the
.BR test-clone (8)
verification test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B clone
appeared in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
