'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: dua.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/03/07 22:49:10 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/07 22:49:10 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DUA 4 "$Date: 2004/03/07 22:49:10 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 ISDN Devices"
.SH NAME
.B dua, dl-dua
\- DPNSS/DASS User Adaptation Layer
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dlpi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dlpi_dua.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/dua_ioctl.h>
.\"
.\"
.\".TP
.\".BI "int " tpi_stream " = open(" tpi_device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.\".TP
.\".BI "int " das_stream " = open(" das_device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.\".TP
.\".BI "int " dpn_stream " = open(" dpn_device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " dua_stream " = open(" dua_device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.\".HP
.\".BI "int " muxid " = ioctl(" dua_stream ", " \fRI_LINK\fI ", " tpi_stream );
.\"
.\"
.\".HP
.\".BI "int " muxid " = ioctl(" dua_stream ", " \fRI_LINK\fI ", " das_stream );
.\"
.\"
.\".HP
.\".BI "int " muxid " = ioctl(" dua_stream ", " \fRI_LINK\fI ", " dpn_stream );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B DUA
is an implementation of the
.I DPNSS/DASS User Adaptation Layer (DUA)
as sepcified in
.BR draft-ietf-sigtran-dua-xx .
.B DUA
provides a backhaul of the services of
.BR dass "(4) and " dpnss (4)
over an IP network using Stream Control Transmission Protocol,
.BR sctp (4)
as defined in
.BR "RFC 2960" .
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B DUA
streams can be linked under a
.BR dpnss "(4) or " dass (4)
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide data link services to the Layer 3 protocol.  This is normally
performeed by the ISDN Configuration Daemon,
.BR isdnconfd (8).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B DUA
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR sctp "(4) or " dpnss "(4) or " dass (4)
streams are linked under the
.BR DUA
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide transport to remote ASPs or SGs, or local data link provider services to
.BR DUA .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR dua_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B DUA
provides the following
.BR dl (4)
devices.  The
.I dua_device
argument to the
.BR open (2)
call can be one of the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/dl-dua
This device provides the
.BR dl (4)
protocol services using the DL-primitives of the
.I Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)
described in
.BR dlpi (7)
with the corrigendum described in
.BR dlpi_dua (7).
Streams that result from opening this device are directly compatible with
.BR dpnss "(4) or " dass (4)
streams.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Unlike other
.B OpenSS7 ISDN
protocol modules and drivers providing transport services,
.B DUA
does not provide a
.BR sockets (3)
interface.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B DUA
can be configured on a system as a drop in transparent replacement for
.BR dass "(4) and " dpnss (4).
In such a configuration, data link users opening
.BR dpnss "(4) or " dass (4)
streams and will be unaware that they are opening
.BR dua ()
streams.
In
.BR OpenSS7 ,
.BR dua ()
streams are used as the primary mechanism of redundancy and distribution at
the DPNSS/DASS data link layer, and, when properly configured (see
.BR isdnconfd (8)),
.BR dua ()
functions transparently to the DPNSS/DASS Layer 3.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Also, opening, attaching and binding a
.BR dua ()
stream may result in the opening and binding of a
.BR dpnss "(4) or " dass (4)
stream on the local or remote host in direct support of the local DPNSS/DASS
user.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.BR streamio (7)
.I I_STR
system calls on the
.IR dua_stream .
These management controls are documented in
.BR dua_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.PP
In addition,
.B dua
supports
.BR dl (4)
IO controls.  See
.BR dl_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <sys/dlpi.h> ,
.BR <sys/dlpi_dua.h> ,
.BR <ss7/dl_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/dua_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR dl (4),
.BR dass (4),
.BR dpnss (4),
.BR dl_ioctl (4),
.BR dua_ioctl (4),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_dua (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B DUA
module conforms to the DLPI Specifications, Revision 2.0.0.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The
.B DUA
module will first appear in
.B strss7
release 0.8.4.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
dua-05
.]
.[
dpnss1
.]
.[
dass2
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
