'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocindent nosmartindent noautoindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: echo.4.man,v 0.9.2.4 2004/04/16 17:14:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/04/16 17:14:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH ECHO 4 "$Date: 2004/04/16 17:14:54 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B echo
\- echo \fISTREAMS\fP device
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <stropts.h>
.HP 12
.BI "int " fd " = open(" /dev/echo ", " oflag );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I fd
is a file descriptor for an echo stream opened using the
.BR open (2)
system call on one of the following devices:
.TP
.RB \*(lq /dev/echo \*(rq
This device is accessible to all users.
.PP
The
.B echo
device is characterized by the following behavior:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Most 
.I STREAMS
messages written to the driver's write queue are echoed back to the stream
head read queue.  These messages include:
.BR M_DATA,
.BR M_PROTO,
and
.BR M_PCPROTO .
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.B echo
does not support any I/O controls of its own and all I/O controls delivered
will return an
.IR errno (3)
of
.BR [ EOPNOTSUPP ].
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B echo
device can be opened when no other suitable device exists and modules may be
pushed on the
.B echo
device.
.PP
The primary use of the
.B echo
device is the
.I STREAMS
verification utility
.BR strvf (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B echo
device is used on
.IR HP-UX \(rg
systems in support of the
.BR strvf (8)
utiliity.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
provides this device in support of
.BR strvf (8)
and for compatibility with
.IR HP-UX \(rg
and
.IR OSF \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B echo
is implemented as a regular
.I STREAMS
pseudo-device driver.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.B /dev/echo
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR open (2),
.IR errno (3),
.BR nuls (4),
.BR spx (4),
.BR strvf (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B echo
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.IR HP-UX \(rg.
This is an
.IR HP-UX \(rg-
and
.IR OSF \(rg-specific
device.
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.[
osfspg
.]
.B echo
is provided in
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
for compatibility with
.IR HP-UX \(rg
and
.IR OSF \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR HP-UX \(rg
and
.IR OSF \(rg
do not document all behavior.
.IP \(em
Use for purposes other than
.BR strvf (8)
are not necessarily compatible.
.IP \(em
For an
.IR AIX \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
equivalent, see
.BR spx (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR HP-UX \(rg
and
.IR OSF \(rg
documentation.
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.[
osfdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B echo
first appeared in
.IR HP-UX \(rg
and
.IR OSF \(rg?
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
