'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: fifo.4s.man,v 0.9.2.10 2008-04-28 12:53:40 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:40 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: fifo.4s.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2008-04-28 12:53:40  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/04/05 09:43:44  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH FIFO 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B fifo
\- \fISTREAMS\fR-based FIFO Device
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.BR
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int open(" \(lq/dev/fifo\(rq ", int " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The named pipe obtained by opening a special device node created with the
.BR mkfifo (1)
command are not necessarily \fISTREAMS\fR devices.  The
.B fifo
.I STREAMS
pseudo-device driver provides a mechanism for assigning
.IR STREAMS -based
fifos within the file system.
.PP
The
.B fifo
pseudo-device driver is a regular
.I STREAMS
character special device driver with the following exceptions:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
.B fifo
character special device files cannot be clone opened.  Attempts to clone open a 
.B fifo
character special device file with the
.BR open (2s)
system call, will fail and return
.RB [ ENXIO ]
in
.IR errno (3).
.IP (2)
.B fifo
character special device files and FIFO special files cannnot be mounted with
.BR fattach (2).
This is because a FIFO as already mounted at the point that the character or FIFO special file
appears within a filesystem.
.IP (3)
.B fifo
character special device files, once opened, are indistiguishable from system-based FIFOs:
.BR fstat (2)
will report the file as a FIFO special device.
.PP
.IR STREAMS -based
FIFOs differ from
.IR "SVR 3.2" -style
FIFOs in the following ways:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
.IR STREAMS -based
FIFOs support the
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR getpmsg (2s),
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR putpmsg (2s),
system calls, and
.BR streamio (7)
.I STREAMS
input-output controls (in particular the
.BR I_SENDFD (9)
and
.BR I_RECVFD (9)
.BR ioctl (2s)s).
.IR "SVR 3.2" -style
FIFOs do not.
.IP (2)
.IR STREAMS -based
FIFOs support
.I "UNIX Eigth Edition"
.B O_NDLEAY
behaviour, the
.I "SVR 4.2"
delimited message features, and
.BR M_READ (9)
generation.
.IR "SVR 3.2" -style
FIFOs do not.
.IP (3)
.IR STREAMS -based
FIFOs can have
.I STREAMS
modules pushed onto the FIFO (see
.BR I_LINK (7)
and
.BR I_PLINK (7)
under
.BR streamio (7)).
.IR "SVR 3.2" -style
FIFOs cannot.
.PP
As a result of these additional features,
.IR STREAMS -based
FIFOs are less efficient in pure
.BR read (2s)/ write (2s)
performance when compared to
.B Linux
native
.IR "SVR 3.2" -style
FIFOs.
.\"
.PP
Following are some characteristics of FIFOs (both character special and system based) that cause
their behaviour to differ from that of regular STREAMS character special device files: (this
behaviour is consistent with
.B POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
specifications.)
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
FIFOs must be opened for read, write or both.  A FIFO cannot be opened otherwise.  (But see
.RI \(lq NOTICES \(rq,
below.)
.IP \(bu
FIFOs opened with the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag set, will not block on the open, regardless of whether they are opened
.B O_RDONLY
and there are no writers, or opened
.B O_WRONLY
and there are no readers.
.IP \(bu
FIFOs opened with the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag set, for write-only,
.BR O_WRONLY ,
operation, when no process has the FIFO open for reading will fail an return
.RB [ ENXIO ],
to the call to
.RB open (2s).
.IP \(bu
FIFOs opened with the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag set, for read-only,
.BR O_RDONLY ,
operation, when no process has the FIFO open for writing will not block, will succeed and return
zero to the call to
.BR open (2s).
.IP \(bu
FIFOs opened without the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag set, will block on the open if opened
.B O_RDONLY
and there are no writers, or opened
.B O_WRONLY
and there are no readers.
.IP \(bu
FIFOs opened without the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag set, will not block on the open if opened
.BR O_RDWR .
.IP \(bu
When a FIFO is hung up, write and write-like operations return
.RB [ ENXIO ]
as is the case for regular
.I STREAMS
devices.
This is true for
.BR write (2s),
.BR writev (2s),
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR putpmsg (2s),
and
.BR streamio (7)
input-output controls that write messages to the
.IR Stream ,
such as
.BR I_FDINSERT (7).
.IP \(bu
If there are no writers at the time that a read or read-like operation is performed, and the
.I Stream
is set for blocking operation, the read operation will block awaiting writers to the
.IR Stream .
.IP \(bu
If there are no readers at the time that a write or write-like operation is performed, and the
the write or write-like operations fail, generate a
.RI { SIGPIPE }
signal to the callers, and return
.RB [ EPIPE ],
regardless of whether the file descriptor is set for blocking or non-blocking operation.
.IP \(bu
By default, when an asynchronous write error occurs, and a write or write-like operation is
performed, FIFOs will generate
.RI { SIGPIPE }
to the caller in addition to returning the error from the asynchronous write error message.  This
behavior can be suppressed by clearing the
.B SNDPIPE
write option flag using the
.BR I_SWROPT (7)
input-output control.  This is the reverse of the default behavior for regular
.I STREAMS
character special files.
.IP \(bu
By default, attempting to write a zero-length data message to a FIFO with
.BR write (2s),
.BR writev (2s),
.BR putmsg (2),
or
.BR putpmsg (2s),
will succeed, return zero, but no message will be generated.  Generation of the message can be
enabled by setting the
.B SNDZERO
write option flag using the
.BR I_SWROPT (7)
input-output control.  This is the reverse of the default behaviour for regular
.I STREAMS
character special files.
.IP \(bu
FIFOs break large writes down into independent data messages of
.RB { PIPE_BUF }
bytes or less.  Writes of less than or equal to
.RB { PIPE_BUF }
bytes are guaranteed atomic (i.e. they will not be interleaved with data from writes by other
processes).  Writes
of greater than
.RB { PIPE_BUF }
byes are not guaranteed atomic (i.e. may be interleaved with data from writes by other processes).
This is default behaviour of all
.I STREAMS
character special files, unless altered by the driver.
.IP \(bu
FIFOs that have no modules pushed, even when full and blocked on write, will not block on close as
described under
.BR I_SETCLTIME (7),
because there is no driver write queue.
.IP \(bu
.BR I_LIST (7)
will not report a count for a driver (FIFOs have no driver).
.IP \(bu
.BR I_LINK (7),
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
and
.BR I_PUNLINK (7),
will always fail with error
.RB [ EINVAL ]
when issued to a file descriptor associated with a FIFO.
.IP \(bu
.BR I_SENDFD (7)
and
.BR I_RECVFD (7)
can succeed on a FIFO (whereas they always fail on a regular
.I STREAMS
character special file).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Normally a
.I STREAMS
special file is associated with a device number.  For
.BR fifo ,
the
.I STREAMS
special file is associated with the inode in the file system in which the
character special node was created.  This acts identically to a FIFO created
with
.BR mkfifo (1),
with the exception that a
.BR stat (2)
on the device node will report that it is an
.B S_IFCHR
device node.  A
.BR fstat (2)
on a file descriptor opening this device node in the file system will report that
the file descriptor is of type
.BR S_IFIFO .
.PP
Under
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
is it possible to make all
.B Linux
system FIFOs
.IR STREAMS -based.
This is accomplished during configuration of the package and when the package kernel modules are
loaded.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/fifo
An instance of an external filesystem
.I STREAMS
FIFO character device.  This FIFO device instance is provided for testing, primarily by the
.BR test-fifo (8)
conformance verification test suite.
.TP
.B /dev/streams/fifo
The
.BR specfs (5)
shadow special filesystem
.I STREAMS
FIFO device.
.TP
.BI /dev/streams/fifo/ nnn
Instances of
.BR specfs (5)
shadow special filesystem
.I STREAMS
FIFO devices.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mkfifo (1),
.BR stat (2),
.BR fstat (2),
.BR pipe (2s),
.BR pipe (4),
.BR spx (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B fifo
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of FIFOs is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides character device special file FIFOs as well as providing an option to make all
.B Linux
system FIFOs
.IR STREAMS -based,
or to leave system FIFOs using the
.B Linux
.IR "SVR 3.2" -sytle
.[
svr3
.]
implementation.
A number of implementations do not normally support
.IR STREAMS -based
FIFOs, but, instead, opt for
.IR "SVR 3.2" -sytle
.[
svr3
.]
FIFOs that are not
.IR STREAMS -based.
Some implementations support making all FIFOs
.I STREAMS -based
as a system configuration option.
Some implementations support character device special file implementations of FIFOs.  (See also
.BR sfx (4).)
Some implementations support only character device special file implementations of FIFOs (as
.B LiS
.[
lis
.]
does) and do not support
.IR STREAMS -based
system FIFOs.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications will use
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
instead of
.BR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP \(em
Under
.B Linux
a FIFO cannot be opened without read or write.  This is because
.B Linux
defines the
.B O_RDONLY
flag to
.BR open (2s)
to be zero, despite
.I POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
recommendations to the contrary.
.IP \(em
.RB { PIPE_BUF }
under
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
is set to the historical default of
.B 4096
bytes.
This is consistent with the current settings for
.B Linux
.IR "SVR 3.2" -style
FIFOs and is properly reported using
.B POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
features interrogation methods.
.IP \(em
.RB { PIPE_BUF }
characteristics are accomplished by setting the
.I STREAMS
minimum packet size to zero
.RB ( 0 ),
the maximum packet size to
.RB ( 4096 ),
the high water mark to
.RB ( 5120 ),
and the low water mark to
.RB ( 1024 ).
These are the defaults for all
.I Stream heads
and can only be altered by a driver or module.
.IP \(em
It may be necessary to push the
.BR pipemod (4)
module on one end of the FIFO to maintain the sense of
.BR M_FLUSH .
.IP \(em
Some
.I STREAMS
implementations do not permit
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes or FIFOs to be linked beneath a multiplexing driver.  This may be due to an inability to
represent a FIFO as a regular
.I Stream
within the traditional
.B VFS
filesystem.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
permits
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes and FIFOs to be linked beneath a multiplexing driver for testing and other special purposes.
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
implementation of FIFOs permit them to be treated as any other
.I Stream
with regards to linking.
.PP
See
.IR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3.
.[
susv3
.]
Conformance is verified using the
.BR test-fifo (8)
verification test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B fifos
first appeared in SVR 3,
.[
svr3
.]
but were not implemented using
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
