'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: fifo.old.4,v 0.9.2.1 2004/02/29 19:06:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/02/29 19:06:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH FIFO 4 "$Date: 2004/02/29 19:06:54 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B fifo
\- first-in first-out special file, named pipe
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.br
.B #include <fcntl.h>
.\"
.\"
.HP 8
.BI "int " fd " = open(const char *" pathname ", int " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A
.B FIFO
special file (a named pipe) is similar to a pipe, except that it is access as
part of the file system.  It can be opened by multiple processes for reading
or writing.  When processes are exchanging data via the
.BR FIFO ,
the kernel passes all data internally without writing it to the file system.
Thus, the
.B FIFO
special file has no contents on the file system, the file system entry merely
serves as a reference point so that processes can access the pipe using a name
in the file system.
.PP
The kernel maintains exactly one pipe for each
.B FIFO
special file that is opened by at least one process.  The
.B FIFO
must be opened on both ends (reading and writing) before data can be passed.
Normally, opening the
.B FIFO
blocks until the other end is opened also.
.PP
A process can open a
.B FIFO
in non-blocking mode.  In this case, opening for read only will succeed even
if noone has opened on the write side yet; opening for write only will fail
with
.RB [ ENXIO ]
(no such device or address) unless the other end has already been opened.
.PP
Under Linux, opening a
.B FIFO
for read and write will succeed both in blocking an non-blocking mode.  POSIX
leaves this behavior underfined.  This can be used to open a
.B FIFO
for writing while there are no readers available.  A process that uses both
ends of the connection to communicate with itself should be very careful to
avoid deadlocks.
.SH NOTICES
.PP
When a process tries to write to a
.B FIFO
that is not opened for read on the other side, the process is sent a
.B SIGPIPE
signal.
.B FIFO
special files can be created by
.BR mkfifo (3),
and are specially indicated in ls -l.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B fifo
pseudo-driver
(which is internal to
.B LiS\c
)
.[
LiS
.]
provides
.I STREAMS
.I fifos
as single character special files, and
.I STREAMS
.I pipes
as pairs of character special files which are interconnected (see
.BR pipe "(3)).  "
.sp
.I STREAMS
.I fifos
differ from typical
.I STREAMS
character special files in that there are not separate
.I "stream head"
and
.I driver
queue pair within the
.I STREAMS
file.  Instead, a
.I fifo
is created with only a single queue pair for the
.IR "stream head" .
Moreover, in a typical
.I driver
queue pair, the write queue is not connected to a next queue.
In a
.IR fifo ,
the write queue is directed to the read queue of the pair.
A
.I pipe
comprises a pair of
.IR fifos ", "
with the write queue of each pair directed to the read queue of the other.
The two
.B fifos
comprising a
.B pipe
are referred to as
.IR peers ", "
and each somewhat represents a
.I driver
to the other.
As a degenerate case, a
.B fifo
is its own peer.
.sp
.I STREAMS
.I modules
may be pushed onto
.B fifos
and
.BR pipes ", "
but should not expect a
.I driver
below them; instead, the
.BR SAMESTR "()"
function should be used from the write queue of a pair to determine if
the module is the lowest in the
.I STREAMS
file (this is called the
.IR midpoint "). "
The structure of a
.B fifo
or
.B pipe
is preserved when modules are pushed (and popped); i.e., the write
queue at the
.I midpoint
will always be directed at the read queue of the
.IR peer "."
.sp
Input and output are handled at a
.B fifo
stream head as they would normally be handled
at a stream head.  In
LiS,
.[
LiS
.]
an
.BR "fifo open" "() "
entry point exists to assign minor device numbers to new opens under the
.B fifo
major device number, and a
.BR close "() "
entry point is used correspondingly to release them.  These functions
are kept in a
.I streamtab
data structure (as they would normally be for any
.I STREAMS
driver or module) which is private to the
LiS
.[
LiS
.]
implementation.
.\"
.\"
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
In the current Linux kernels, character special major numbers are limited
to 16 bits, and major and minor device numbers to 8 bis each.  This limits
a system to 256 total major device numbers and 256 total minor devices
per major device number.  This is a rather severe limitation where
mechanisms like
.B fifos
and
.B pipes
are concerned.
.sp
However, a driver may handle more than one major device number.  The
.B fifo
pseudo-driver uses this to overcome this limitation, by supporting the
automatic allocation and use of multiple major device numbers for
.B fifos
and
.BR pipes .
Specifying more than 256 minor devices is done in the usual manner, i.e.,
by specifying the number of "units" in the appropriate
.B Config
file.  Enough major device numbers will be allocated to cover the
requested number of minor devices (if available, else an error will
occur in 
.BR strconf "(8)). "
The number allocated will include one minor device per major number
to be used as a
.BR fifo "\-specific"
.I clone
minor device (specifically, minor number 0), which exhibits special behavior.
.sp
Normally, when cloning is done via the
.B clone
pseudo-driver, the
.B clone
major device number is used, along with the desired actual major number
as the minor device number.  When an
.BR open "() "
is performed on such a device, the
.BR "clone open" "() "
routine in turn calls the appropriate driver's
.BR open "(), "
with the
.I sflag
parameter set to
.BR CLONEOPEN .
The driver's
.BR open "() "
is expected in this case to allocate an unused minor device number,
and return it via an entirely new device number in the
.I "devp" 
parameter.  In this way, a driver can change the device number to be
used for a
.I STREAMS
file.
When minor device 0 for a specified for a
.B fifo
major device, the driver will also clone a new minor device number.
However,
LiS
.[
LiS
.]
opens
.B fifo
devices differently; specifically, when an already-opened
.BR fifo "\-specific"
clone minor device is reopened, the new and subsequent opens will use
the already-opened clone.
Thus, using minor device 0 for a
.B fifo
when creating a file system node will ensure that all concurrent
opens of the associated path name will use the same
.I STREAMS
file; at the same time, opens of different file system nodes via
different paths will open their respectively different
.I STREAMS
files.
This is essentially how kernel
.B fifos
behave -applications and users of
.I STREAMS
.B fifos
don't have to keep track of minor numbers to achieve this same behavior
when it is desired.
.sp
It is in fact recommended that only two forms of file system nodes be used for
.I STREAMS
.BR fifos ": "
the
.B clone
major number as major number with a
.B fifo
major number as minor number, to be used when
.I every
open of the associated path must clone a new
.BR fifo ", "
and a
.B fifo
major number as major number with 0 as the minor number, to be used
when new opens are to clone a new
.B fifo
but subsequent concurrent opens are to use the already opened
.BR fifo ". "
These are represented by two device special file paths created when LiS
.[
LiS
.]
is installed:
.RB "/" dev "/" fifo
for the former, and
.RB "/" dev "/" fifo.0
for the latter.  It is recommended that these be used, possibly
along with the equivalent of
.BR stat "(2) "
to determine appropriate major device numbers for the
.B clone
and
.B fifo
pseudo-drivers, which are also determined when LiS
.[
LiS
.]
is installed.
It can be noted that
.B pipes
are actually created as instances of the former, after which the write
queues are peer-connected.
.sp
The
.B fifo
pseudo-driver allocates minor devices in
.I round-robin
fashion; i.e., a list of available minor devices is kept, and once a
minor number is finally closed, it is put at the end of this list.
Thus, a
.B fifo
minor device which is opened and closed will not be immediately reused.
.\"
.\"
.SH WARNINGS
Because
.I STREAMS
.B fifos
and
.B pipes
are implemented as character special devices, they do not appear as
.B pipe
devices when examined with
.BR stat "(2) "
or the equivalent (e.g., 
.BR ls "(1)); "
i.e. the
.B S_IFIFO
indication is not set in the mode -
.B S_IFCHR
is set instead, and the actual device number is indicated in the
.I st_rdev
field of the
.I stat
data structure.
.sp
Because of the potential use of multiple major numbers, applications
should not depend on a
.B fifo
or
.B pipe
having a specific major device number, nor should an application depend on
all
.B fifos
and
.B pipes
having the same major device number.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mkfifo (3),
.BR mkfifo (1),
.BR s_pipe (3),
.BR socketpair (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR sigaction (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR clone "(4), "
.BR connld "(4), "
.BR fifo "(4), "
.BR ls "(1), "
.BR pipe "(3), "
.BR pipemod "(4), "
.BR STREAMS "(4), "
.BR stat "(2), "
.BR strconf "(8)"
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
UNIX\(rg\ System V Release 4 (SVR4)
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Boyd, protologos LLC.
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
