'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: h225.4,v 0.9.2.1 2004/02/29 19:06:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/02/29 19:06:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH H225 4 "$Date: 2004/02/29 19:06:54 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 VoIP Devices"
.SH NAME
.B H225
\- H.225.0 Call Control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/cci.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/h225i.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/h225i_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " h225_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B H225
is an implementation of the H.225.0 Call control defined in ITU-T
Recommendation H.225.0.
.B H225
is based on ITU-T Recommendation Q.931 (see
.BR isdn (4)).
.B H225
uses the services of TCP (see
.BR tcp (4))
or SCTP (see
.BR sctp (4))
or other reliable transport providing a
.BR tpi (7)
interface.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B H225
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR tcp "(4), " sctp "(4) or " sscop (4)
transport provider streasm are linked under the
.B H225
multiplexing driver using the
.BR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide reliable transport services to
.BR H225 .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR h225_ioctl (4)
IO controls.  This function is normally performed by the H323 configuration
daemon,
.BR h323confd (8).
See also,
.BR h225 (8).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B H225
provides the following stream types.  To select one of the stream types, the
.I device
argument to the
.BR open (2)
call can be one of the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/h225
This device provides the H225 protocol services interface using the
CC-primitives of the Call Control Interface (CCI) described in
.BR cci (7),
as interpreted for use with
.B H225
as described in
.BR cci_h225 (7).
This interface is suitable both for use with other SS7/ISDN modules and
drivers, as well as with the
.BR cframe (3)
library using the
.B OpenSwitch
call framework.
.\"
.\"
.PP
Unlike other communications protocol modules and drivers,
.B H225
does not provide an
.BR xti (3)
or
.BR sockets (3)
interface.  This is because the special needs of call control are divorced
from the XTI or SOCKETS paradigm.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
system calls on the
.I h225_stream 
file descriptor.
These management controls are documented in
.BR h225_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR h225 (8),
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR cci (7),
.BR h225i (7),
.BR cframe (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/cci.h> ,
.BR <ss7/h225i.h> ,
.BR <ss7/h225i_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/cframe_h225.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.I /dev/h225
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.I H225
interface is specific to the
.B OpenSS7 
SS7 stack.  This is Version 2 of the interface.
.\"
.\"
.PP
CCI interfaces are consistent with CCI Revision 0.8.2.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
h225
.]
.[
h323
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
