'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mtp_tpi.4.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/03/01 02:44:06 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:06 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MTP-TPI 4 "$Date: 2004/03/01 02:44:06 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 SS7 Devices"
.SH NAME
.B MTP-TPI
\- Message Transfer Part (MTP) Transport Provider Interface (TPI)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/tpi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/tpi_ss7.h>
.br
.B #include (sys/tpi_mtp.h>
.HP
.BI "int " mtp_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/mtp-tpi\fI ", " flags );
.PP
.B #include <xti.h>
.br
.B #include <xti_mtp.h>
.HP
.BI "int " mtp_xtistr " = t_open(" \fR/dev/mtp-tpi\fI ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B MTP-TPI
provides a stream supporting the Transport Provider Interface
.RB ( tpi (7))
to the Message Transfer Part
.RB ( mtp (4)).
This interface is intended solely for the use by user programs or protocol
modules requiring the common
.BR tpi (7)
interface, such as the
.BR xnet (3)
or
.BR xti (3),
and
.BR sockets (3)
libaries.
.PP
A corrigendum for the use of the Transport Provider Interface (TPI) with the
Message Transfer Part (MTP) is described in more detail in
.BR tpi_mtp (7).
.PP
Information on the use of MTP TPI corrigendum with the
.BR xnet (3)
or
.BR xti (3)
libraries is detailed in the corrrigendum for use of XTI for the Message
Transfer Part (MTP) in
.BR xti_mtp (3).
.I /dev/mtp-tpi
supports this corrigendum.
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.BR timod (4)
module does not necessairly need to be used with this device for
.BR libxnet (3).
The
.I /dev/mtp-tpi
device supports the
.BR timod (4)
IO controls directly.  Pushing the
.BR timod (4)
module over a
.I /dev/mtp-tpi
stream will not alter its operation, but may be less efficient than using the
device directly.
.PP
Although the
.B mtp-tpi
device can be registered under
.BR socksys (4)
for use by
.BR sockets (3),
it is recommended that the
.BR mtp-npi (4)
device be registered instead.
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR open (2),
.BR t_open (3),
.BR tpi (7),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR xti (3),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR tpi_mtp (7),
.BR xti_mtp (3).
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <sys/tpi_mtp.h> ,
.BR <xti_mtp.h> .
.SH DEVICES
.PP
/dev/mtp-tpi
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B MTP-TPI
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
stack.
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q704
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.[
jtq704
.]
.[
TLI
.]
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI












