'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mux.4.man,v 0.9.2.1 2005/09/11 02:39:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/09/11 02:39:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mux.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2005/09/11 02:39:50  brian
.\" - added missin manpages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MUX 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mux
\- \fISTREAMS\fP multiplexing pseudo-device driver
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B mux
psuedo-device multiplexing driver is an implementation of the multplexing driver described in the
.RI \(lq "UNIX\(rg System V Release 4 \- STREAMS Programmer's Guide" ,\(rq
.[
svr4spg
.]
with a number of exceptions and enhancments.  The primary purposes of the
.B mux
pseudo-device driver are: to provide a capability to the
.BR test-streams (8)
conformance and verification test program, for testing linking and unlinking of STREAMS across a
multiplexing driver;
and to provide an example of a multiplexing driver for the STREAMS programmer.
To avoid complications for testing, and to serve as a basic example, the driver is as simplistic as
possible.
.PP
The
.B mux
pseudo-device driver has the following behaviour:
.TP 3n
.B "open\fR(2s)"
When a
.B mux
STREAM is opened using
.BR open (2s)
a new
.B mux
STREAM is created.  The newly created STREAM is not associated with any lower multiplex STREAM.
Issuing the
.BR MUX_UP " and " MUX_DOWN
input-output controls are necessary, to associate the upper multiplex STREAM with a lower one,
before data can be written to or read from the STREAM.  Any attempt to send data on the STREAM
before it is associated with a lower STREAM will result in an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message being sent upstream causing all further read, write or control operations on the stream to
fail with error
.RB [ ENXIO ].
.TP
.B "I_LINK\fR(7), \fPI_PLINK\fR(7)"
When a STREAM is linked under the
.B mux
driver, a new lower multiplex STREAM is instantiated.  This newly instantiated lower STREAM is not
associated with an upper multiplex STREAM.  Issuing the
.B MUX_UP
and
.B MUX_DOWN
input-output controls are necessary, to associate an upper multiplex STREAM with the lower one.
If data is received on the linked STREAM, it will be accumulated in the read-side queue pending a
.B MUX_UP
or
.BR I_UNLINK "(7), or " I_PUNLINK (7)
operation.
.TP
.B "MUX_UP\fR, \fPMUX_DOWN"
The
.BR MUX_UP " and " MUX_DOWN
input-output controls described under
.RI \(lq IOCTLS ,\(rq
below, are used to connect the upstream or downstream flow (respectively) between the requesting
upper multiplex STREAM and a specified (by link id) lower multiplex STREAM.  Once connected in this
fashion, data can be passed in either direction.
.IP
Each upstream or downstream multiplex connection is independent of all others.
.B MUX_DOWN
establishes fan-in in the downstream direction.  Multiple upper multiplex STREAMS can be connected
to the same lower multiplex STREAM using separate calls to
.BR MUX_DOWN .
.B MUX_UP
establishes fan-in in the upstream direction.  Multiple lower multiplex STREAM can be connected to
the same upper multiplex STREAM using separate calls to
.BR MUX_UP .
.TP
.B "putpmsg\fR(2s), \fPgetpmsg\fR(2s)"
Data is passed in either direction using the
.BR putpmsg (2s)
or
.BR getpmsg (2s)
calls as normal.  The
.B mux
driver coordinates
.I STREAMS
flow control across the multiplexing driver by explicitly enabling service procedures of the feeding
side when the accepting side is back-enabled.
.TP
.B "I_UNLINK\fR(7), \fPI_PUNLINK\fR(7)"
When a lower multiplex STREAM is removed using
.BR I_UNLINK "(7) or " I_PUNLINK (7),
the lower multiplex STREAM is no longer availble for data transfer and returns to its original
STREAM head.  If the unlinked STREAM is connected to an upper multiplex STREAM (with
.BR MUX_DOWN ),
the connection is broken and an
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message is sent to the upper STREAM.
.TP
.B "close\fR(2s)"
When an upper multiplex STREAM is closed using the
.BR close (2s)
system call, the STREAM is dismantled.  An lower multiplex STREAMS that were previously linked under
the closing STREAM with
.BR I_LINK (7)
will be unlinked automatically by the STREAM head before the upper multiplex STREAM is closed.
If the upper STREAM remains connected to a lower multiplex STREAM (due to a previous call to
.BR MUX_UP ),
the connection will be broken and the lower multiplex STREAM will begin queuing read data pending a
subsequent connection or unlink operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B mux
pseudo-device multiplexing driver is an implementation of the multplexing driver described in the
.RI \(lq "UNIX\(rg System V Release 4 \- STREAMS Programmer's Guide" ,\(rq
.[
svr4spg
.]
with a number of considerations as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
The
.I SVR4
driver is only a fan-in driver; that is, it only supports multiple upper STREAMS fanning into a
single
.BR I_LINK (7)'ed
lower STREAM.
In contrast,
.B mux
supports fan-in and fan-out arrangements, as well as multiple linked lower STREAMS.
.IP \(bu
The
.I SVR4
driver does not support
.BR I_PLINK (7).
In contrast,
.B mux
supports both
.BR I_LINK (7)
and
.BR I_PLINK (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
.SS I_LINK
.PP
The
.B mux
driver responds to the
.BR I_LINK (7)
.I STREAMS
input-output control.
The lower multiplex STREAM is instantiated and made available as a target of the
.BR MUX_UP " or " MUX_DOWN
input-output controls.
The link will be removed once the upper control STREAM (the one that performed the
.BR I_LINK (7)
operation) is closed.
.PP
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.BR linkblk (9)
structure describing the lower multiplexed STREAM to be linked.
.SS I_PLINK
.PP
The
.B mux
driver responds to the
.BR I_PLINK (7)
.I STREAMS
input-output control.
The lower multiplex STREAM is instantiated and made available as a target of the
.BR MUX_UP " or " MUX_DOWN
input-output controls.
The link will persist, even if all STREAMS are closed.  An explicit
.BR I_PUNLINK (7)
operation is necessary to unlink the STREAM.
.PP
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.BR linkblk (9)
structure describing the lower multiplexed STREAM to be linked.
.SS I_UNLINK
.PP
The
.B mux
driver responds to the
.BR I_UNLINK (7)
.I STREAMS
input-output control.
The specified linked STREAM is disconnected from all feeding upper multiplex STREAMS, and an
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message is sent to each.  The linked STREAM is then removed from the lower side of the driver.
.PP
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.BR linkblk (9)
structure describing the lower multiplexed STREAM to be unlinked.
.SS I_PUNLINK
.PP
The
.B mux
driver responds to the
.BR I_PUNLINK (7)
.I STREAMS
input-output control.
The specified linked STREAM is disconnected from all feeding upper multiplex STREAMS, and an
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message is sent to each.  The linked STREAM is then removed from the lower side of the driver.
.PP
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.BR linkblk (9)
structure describing the lower multiplexed STREAM to be unlinked.
.SS MUX_UP
.PP
Requests that the driver connect the requesting STREAM upstream from the specified linked STREAM.
This only connects the read-side direction of flow.  See
.RB \(lq MUX_DOWN ,\(rq
below, for the write-side connection.
.PP
.I arg
is an integer value specifying the lower multiplexed STREAM to be used for the connection.
.SS MUX_DOWN
.PP
Requests that the driver connect the specified linked STREAM downstream from the requesting STREAM.
This only connects the write-side direction of flow.  See
.RB \(lq MUX_UP ,\(rq
above, for the read-side connection.
.PP
.I arg
is an integer value specifying the lower multiplexed STREAM to be used for the connection.
.SS MINIMUX_UP
.PP
Requests that the driver connect the requesting STREAM upstream from the specified linked STREAM.
This only connects the read-side direction of flow.  See
.RB \(lq MINIMUX_DOWN ,\(rq
below, for the write-side connection.
.PP
.I arg
is a pointer to an integer value specifying the lower multiplexed STREAM to be use for the
connection.
.PP
This input-output control is provided for compatibility with the
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
.B minimux
driver.
.SS MINIMUX_DOWN
.PP
Requests that the driver connect the specified linked STREAM downstream from the requesting STREAM.
This only connects the write-side direction of flow.  See
.RB \(lq MINIMUX_UP ,\(rq
above, for the read-side connection.
.PP
.I arg
is a pointer to an integer value specifying the lower multiplexed STREAM to be use for the
connection.
.PP
This input-output control is provided for compatibility with the
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
.B minimux
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B mux
driver is used by the
.BR test-streams (8)
conformance and verification test program to test linking and unlinking of STREAMS across a
multiplexing driver.  Much of its behaviour is specific to testing and cannot be altered without
impacting the ability of the
.BR test-streams (8)
conformance and verification test program results.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B mux
is implemented as described in the
.IR "SVR4 SPG" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/mux
The external filesystem
.I STREAMS
mux device.
.TP
.BR /dev/streams/mux ", " /devices/mux
The
.BR specfs (5)
shadow special filesystem
.I STREAMS
mux device.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR loop (4),
.BR nullmod (4),
.BR test-streams (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B mux
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
provides the
.B mux
pseudo-device driver for testing and compatibility with
.IR LiS ,
.[
LiS
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Although this driver is described in the SVR4 SPG
.[
svr4spg
.]
as a driver example, most
.I STREAMS
implementations do not actually provide such a driver.
.IP \(em
.B mux
is provided primarily for use by the
.BR test-streams (8)
conformance and verification test program, and as an example of a multiplexing driver with flow
control supported across the driver.  It should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
modules, driver or applications programs.
.PP
See
.IR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR4
.[
svr4spg
.]
and LiS
.[
lis
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B mux
is described as an example multiplexing driver in the SVR4 SPG.
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

