'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sccp.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/03/07 22:49:10 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/07 22:49:10 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH SCCP 4 "$Date: 2004/03/07 22:49:10 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 Programmer's Manual"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B SCCP
\- Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/sccpi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sccpi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/npi_sccp.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/tpi_sccp.h>
.PP
.B #include <sys/xti_sccp.h>
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netss7/sccp.h>
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " sccp_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " sccp_xtistr " = t_open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " sccp_socket " = socket(" \fRPF_SS7\fI ", " socket_type ", " \fRSS7PROTO_SCCP\fI );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B SCCP
is an implementation of the Signalling System No. 7
.BR SS7 (4)
Signalling Connection Control Part
.RB ( SCCP )
defined in ITU-T Recommendation Q.711 and ANSI T1.112.
.B SCCP
provides reliable sequenced or unsequenced delivery of packets over a
connectionless or connection oriented transport between two
.B SCCP
endpoints.
.B SCCP
provides strong assurances that the data arrives in order on a stream, if
requested, and maintains sequencing of packets in the face of most network
failures.
.B SCCP
uses the services of the Message Transfer Part (see
.BR mtp (4))
or
MTP3 User Adaptation Layer (see
.BR m3ua (4))
to transfer packets.
.B SCCP
provides a global title translation service that maps global titles to
SCCP-SAP.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B SCCP
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR mtp (4)
or
.BR m3ua (4)
streams are linked under the
.B SCCP
multiplexing driver using the
.I I_LINK
or
.I I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide network services to SCCP.
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR sccp_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B SCCP
provides five stream type.  To select one of these stream types,
.I device
can be one of the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/sccp
This device provides the
.B SCCP
protocol services interface using the N-primitives of the Signalling
Connection Control Part Interface described in
.BR sccpi (7).
.\"
.\"

.TP
.IR /dev/sccp-npi-cl ", " /dev/sccp-npi-co
This device provides the
.B SCCP
protocol service interface using the N-primitives of the Network Provider
Interface
.BR npi (7)
used for the Signalling Connection Control Part as described in
.BR sccp_npi (7).
The
.BR npi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR sockets (3)
library and provides the
.B SCCP
interface using sockets as described in
.BR sccp_socket (7).
.\"
.\"
.sp
.I /dev/sccp-npi-cl
provides a connectionless
.B N_CLNS
network service provider supporting protocol classes 0 and 1;
.I /dev/sccp-npi-co
provides a connection-oriented
.B N_CONS
network service provider supporting protocol classes 2 and 3.
.\"
.\"

.TP
.IR /dev/sccp-tpi-cl ", " /dev/sccp-tpi-co
This device provides the
.B SCCP
protocol service interface using the T-primitives of the Transport Provider
Interface
.BR tpi (7)
used for the Signalling Connection Control Part as described in
.BR sccp_tpi (7).
The
.BR tpi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is suitable for use with
the
.BR xnet (3)
or
.BR xti (3)
library and provides the
.B SCCP
interface using XTI as described in
.BR xti_sccp (3).
.\"
.\"
.sp
.I /dev/sccp-tpi-cl
provides a connectionless
.B T_CLTS
transport service provider supporting protocol classes 0 and 1;
.I /dev/sccp-tpi-co
provides a connection-oriented
.B T_COTS
transport service provider supporting protocol classes 2 and 3.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B SCCP
provides three socket types for use by the
.B sockets (3)
library
.B socket (3)
call.
.B SCCP
provides sockets in the protocol family
.B PF_SS7
using the protocol number
.BR SS7PROTO_SCCP .
The
.I socket_type
argument can be one of the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B SOCK_DGRAM
Provides a connectionless datagram service without regard to order.
Message boundaries are preserved.  This is an
.B SCCP
protocol class 0 service provider.  This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/sccp-tpi-cl
transport service provider.
.\"
.\"

.TP
.B SOCK_RDM
Provides a connectionless reliable datagram service without regard to order.
Message boundaries are preserved.  This is an
.B SCCP
protocol class 1 service provider.  This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/sccp-tpi-co
transport service provider.
.\"
.\"

.TP
.B SOCK_SEQPACKET
Provides a connection-oriented reliable packet service with regard to order.
Message boundaries are preserved.  This is an
.B SCCP
protocol class 2 or 3 service provider.  This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/sccp-tpi-co
transport service provider.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following entries in /etc/protosw provides the information necessary for
.BR socksys (4)
to use these devices:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
llllll.
\fCPF_SS7:\fCSOCK_DGRAM:\fCSS7PROTO_SCCP:\fC/dev/sccp-tpi-cl:\fCtpi:\fCclts
\fCPF_SS7:\fCSOCK_RDM:\fCSS7PROTO_SCCP:\fC/dev/sccp-tpi-cl:\fCtpi:\fCclts
\fCPF_SS7:\fCSOCK_SEQPACKET:\fCSS7PROTO_SCCP:\fC/dev/sccp-tpi-co:\fCtpi:\fCcots
.TE
\fR
.\"
.\"
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR socksys (4)
and
.BR protosw (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.BR streamio (2)
.I I_STR
system calls on the
.IR sccp_stream ", " sccp_xtistr
or
.IR sccp_socket .
These management controls are documented in
.BR sccp_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ss7 (8),
.BR sccpi (7),
.BR sccp_npi (7),
.BR sccp_tpi (7),
.BR xti_sccp (3),
.BR sccp_socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR xnet (3),
.BR sccp_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/sccpi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sccpi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_ss7.h> ,
.BR <sys/npi_sccp.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_ss7.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_sccp.h> ,
.BR <xti.h> ,
.BR <xti_sccp.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The SCCP interface is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
SS7 stack.
This is Version 2 of the interface.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q711
.]
.[
q712
.]
.[
q713
.]
.[
q714
.]
.[
t1.112
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
