'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sfx.4.man,v 0.9.2.12 2005/10/11 10:45:38 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/10/11 10:45:38 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH SFX 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B sfx, fifo
\- \fISTREAMS\fR FIFO Device
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
none
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The named pipe obtained by opening a special device node created with the
.BR mkfifo (1)
command are not necessarily \fISTREAMS\fR devices.  The
.B sfx
.I STREAMS
pseudo-device driver provides a mechanism for assigning
.IR STREAMS -based
fifos within the file system.
.PP
The
.B sfx
pseudo-device driver is a regular
.I STREAMS
character special device driver with the following exceptions:
.\"
.SS Characteristics
.PP
Following are some characteristics of FIFOs that cause their behaviour to differ from that of
regular STREAMS character special device files:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
FIFOs cannot be clone opened.
.IP \(bu
FIFOs must be opened for read, write or both.  A FIFO cannot be opened otherwise.  (But see
.RI \(lq NOTICES \(rq,
below.)
.IP \(bu
FIFOs opened with the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag set, will not block on the open, regardless of whether they are opened
.B O_RDONLY
and there are no writers, or opened
.B O_WRONLY
and there are no readers.
.IP \(bu
FIFOs opened with the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag set, for write-only,
.BR O_WRONLY ,
operation, when no process has the FIFO open for reading will fail an return
.RB [ ENXIO ],
to the call to
.RB open (2).
.IP \(bu
FIFOs opened with the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag set, for read-only,
.BR O_RDONLY ,
operation, when no process has the FIFO open for writing will not block, will succeed and return
zero to the call to
.BR open (2).
.IP \(bu
FIFOs opened without the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag set, will block on the open if opened
.B O_RDONLY
and there are no writers, or opened
.B O_WRONLY
and there are no readers.
.IP \(bu
FIFOs opened without the
.B O_NONBLOCK
flag set, will not block on the open if opened
.BR O_RDWR .
.IP \(bu
When a FIFO is hung up, write and write-like operations return
.RB [ ENXIO ]
as is the case for regular
.I STREAMS
devices.
This is true for
.BR write (2),
.BR writev (2),
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR putpmsg (2),
and
.BR streamio (7)
input-output controls that write messages to the
.IR Stream ,
such as
.BR I_FDINSERT (7).
.IP \(bu
If there are no writers at the time that a read or read-like operation is performed, and the
.I Stream
is set for blocking operation, the read operation will block awaiting writers to the
.IR Stream .
.IP \(bu
If there are no readers at the time that a write or write-like operation is performed, and the
the write or write-like operations fail, generate a
.RI { SIGPIPE }
signal to the callers, and return
.RB [ EPIPE ],
regardless of whether the file descriptor is set for blocking or non-blocking operation.
.IP \(bu
By default, when an asynchronous write error occurs, and a write or write-like operation is
performed, FIFOs will generate
.RI { SIGPIPE }
to the caller in addition to returning the error from the asynchronous write error message.  This
behavior can be suppressed by clearing the
.B SNDPIPE
write option flag using the
.BR I_SWROPT (7)
input-output control.  This is the reverse of the default behavior for regular
.I STREAMS
character special files.
.IP \(bu
By default, attempting to write a zero-length data message to a FIFO with
.BR write (2),
.BR writev (2),
.BR putmsg (2),
or
.BR putpmsg (2),
will succeed, return zero, but no message will be generated.  Generation of the message can be
enabled by setting the
.B SNDZERO
write option flag using the
.BR I_SWROPT (7)
input-output control.  This is the reverse of the default behaviour for regular
.I STREAMS
character special files.
.IP \(bu
FIFOs break large writes down into independent data messages of
.RB { PIPE_BUF }
bytes or less.  Writes of less than or equal to
.RB { PIPE_BUF }
bytes are guaranteed atomic (i.e. they will not be interleaved with data from writes by other
processes).  Writes
of greater than
.RB { PIPE_BUF }
byes are not guaranteed atomic (i.e. may be interleaved with data from writes by other processes).
This is default behaviour of all
.I STREAMS
character special files, unless altered by the driver.
.IP \(bu
FIFOs that have no modules pushed, even when full and blocked on write, will not block on close as
described under
.BR I_SETCLTIME (7),
because there is no driver write queue.
.IP \(bu
.BR I_LIST (7)
will not report a count for a driver (FIFOs have no driver).
.IP \(bu
.BR I_LINK (7),
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
and
.BR I_PUNLINK (7),
will always fail with error
.RB [ EINVAL ]
when issued to a file descriptor associated with a FIFO.
.IP \(bu
.BR I_SENDFD (7)
and
.BR I_RECVFD (7)
can succeed on a FIFO (whereas they always fail on a regular
.I STREAMS
character special file).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Normally a
.I STREAMS
special file is associated with a device number.  For
.BR sfx ,
the
.I STREAMS
special file is associated with the inode in the file system in which the
character special node was created.  This acts identically to a FIFO created
with
.BR mkfifo (1),
with the exception that a
.BR stat (2)
on the device node will say that it is an
.B S_IFCHR
device node.  A
.BR fstat (2)
on a file descriptor opening this device node in the file system will say that
the file descriptor is of type
.BR S_IFIFO .
.PP
It may be necessary to push the
.BR pipemod (4)
module on one end of the FIFO to maintain the sense of
.BR M_FLUSH .
.PP
Under
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
is it possible to make all
.B Linux
system FIFOs
.IR STREAMS -based.
This is accomplished during configuration of the package and when the package kernel modules are
loaded.
.PP
Under
.B Linux
a FIFO cannot be opened without read or write.  This is because
.B Linux
defines the
.B O_RDONLY
flag to
.BR open (2)
to be zero, despite
.I POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
recommendations to the contrary.
.PP
.RB { PIPE_BUF }
under
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
is set to the historical default of
.B 4096
bytes.
.PP
.RB { PIPE_BUF }
characteristics are accomplished by setting the
.I STREAMS
minimum packet size to zero
.RB ( 0 ),
the maximum packet size to
.RB ( 4096 ),
the high water mark to
.RB ( 5120 ),
and the low water mark to
.BR ( 1024 ).
These are the defaults for all
.I Stream heads
and can only be altered by a driver or module.
.PP
Some
.I STREAMS
implementations do not permit
.IR STREAMS -based
pipes or FIFOs to be linked beneath a multiplexing driver.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
permits
.I STREAMS -based
pipes and FIFOs to be linked beneath a multiplexing driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.BR /dev/fifo ", " /dev/sfx
The external filesystem
.I STREAMS
FIFO devices.
.TP
.BR /dev/fifo
An instance of an external filesystem
.I STREAMS
FIFO character device.  This FIFO device instance is provided for testing, primarily by the
.BR test-fifo (8)
conformance verification suite.
.TP
.BR /dev/streams/sfx ", " /devices/sfx
The
.BR specfs (5)
shadow special filesystem
.I STREAMS
fifo device.
.TP
.BI /dev/streams/fifo/ nnn
Instances of
.BR specfs (5)
shadow special filesystem
.I STREAMS
FIFO devices.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR mkfifo (1),
.BR stat (2),
.BR fstat (2),
.BR pipe (2),
.BR pipe (4),
.BR spx (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B sfx
and
.B fifo
have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B sfx
is a character special node based replacement for fifos.  See
.BR mkfifo (1).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3.
.[
susv3
.]
Conformance is verified using the
.BR test-fifo (8)
verification test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B fifos
first appeared in SVR 3,
.[
svr3
.]
but were not implemented using
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
