'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: tcap.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2004/03/07 22:49:10 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/07 22:49:10 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TCAP 4 "$Date: 2004/03/07 22:49:10 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 SS7 Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B TCAP
\- SS7 Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <ss7/tcapi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/tcapi_ioctl.h>
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " tcap_stream " = open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B #include <xti_tcap.h>
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " tcap_xtistr " = t_open(" device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.br
.B #include <netss7/tcap.h>
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " tcap_socket " = socket(" \fRPF_SS7\fI ", " socket_type ", " \fRSS7PROTO_TCAP\fI );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B TCAP
is an implementation of the Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) Transaction
Capabilities Application Part (TCAP) defined in ITU-T Recommendation Q.77X
.[
q771
.]
.[
q772
.]
.[
q773
.]
.[
q774
.]
.[
q775
.]
and
ANSI T1.114.
.[
t1.114
.]
.B TCAP
provides reliable sequenced or unsequenced delivery of packets over a
connectionless transport between two
.B TCAP
endpoints.
.B TCAP
provides stong assurances that the data arrives in order on a stream, if
requested, and maintains sequencing of packets in the face of most network
failures.
.B TCAP
uses the services of the
Signalling Connection Control Part (see
.BR sccp (4))
or SCCP User Adaptation Layer (see
.BR sua (4))
to transfer packets.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B TCAP
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR sccp "(4) or " sua (4)
streams are linked under the
.B TCAP
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK " or " I_PLINK
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide network services to
.BR TCAP .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR tcap_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B TCAP
provides the following stream types.  To select one of these stream types,
.I device
can be one of the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/tcap
This device provides the
.B TCAP 
protocol services interface using the TR- and TC-primitives of the Transaction
Component Interface (TCI) described in
.BR tcapi (7).
This interface is suitable for use with other SS7 modules and drivers.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.IR /dev/tcap-tpi-cl ", " /dev/tcap-tpi-co
This device provides the
.B TCAP
protocol service interface using the T-primitives of the Transport Provider
Interface
.BR tpi (7)
interface provided on a stream opening this device is a suitable device for
use with
.BR xnet (3)
or
.BR xti (3)
library
.BR t_open (3)
call and provides the
.B TCAP
interface using XTI as described in
.BR xti_tcap (3).
.\"
.\"
.sp
.I /dev/tcap-tpi-co
provides a connection-oriented
.B T_COTS
transport service provider supporting operations classes 1, 2 and 3;
.I /dev/tcap-tpi-cl
provides a connectionless
.B T_CLTS
transport service provider supporting operations class 4.
.\"
.\"
.sp
.I /dev/tcap-tpi-cl
provides a connectionless
.B T_CLTS
transport service provider supporting operation class 1;
.I /dev/tcap-tpi-co
provides a connection-oriented
.B T_COTS
transport service provider supporting operation class 2, 3 and 4.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B TCAP
provides two socket types used by the
.BR sockets (3)
library
.BR socket (3)
call.
.B TCAP
provides sockets in the protocol family
.B PF_SS7
using the protocol number
.BR SS7PROTO_TCAP .
The
.I socket_type
argument can be one of the following:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B SOCK_DGRAM
Provides a connectionless datagram service without regard to order.  This is a
.B TCAP
operations class 4 service provider.
This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/tcap-tpi-cl
transport service providers supporting operations class 4.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B SOCK_SEQPACKET
Provides a connection oriented reliable packet service with or without
receipt confirmation and flow control.  This is a
.B TCAP
operation class 1, 2 or 3 service provider.
This socket uses the underlying
.I /dev/tcap-tpi-co
transport service provider supporting operations class 1, 2 or 3.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The following entries in /etc/protosw provides the information necesary for
.BR socksys (4)
to use these devices:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
llllll.
\fCPF_SS7:SOCK_RDM:SS7PROTO_TCAP:/dev/tcap-tpi-cl:tpi:clts
\fCPF_SS7:SOCK_SEQPACKET:SS7PROTO_TCAP:/dev/tcap-tpi-co:tpi:cots
.TE
.\"
.\"
.PP
For additional information, see
.BR socksys (4)
and
.BR protosw (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management IO controls using
.BR ioctl(2)
system calls on the
.IR tcap_stream ", " tcap_xtistr " or " tcap_socket
file descriptor or socket.  These management controls are documented in
.BR tcap_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tcap (8),
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR tcapi (7),
.BR tpi_tcap (7),
.BR tcap_socket (7),
.BR sockets (3),
.BR xnet (3).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/tcapi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/tcapi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <sys/tpi_tcap.h> ,
.BR <xti_tcap.h> ,
.BR <netss7/tcap.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/tcap ,
.IR /dev/tcap-tpi-cl ,
.IR /dev/tcap-tpi-co .
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B TCAP
interface is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
SS7 stack.  This is Version 2 of the interface.
.\"
.\"
.PP
XTI interfaces are consistent with XNS 5.2 Revision 2.
.PP
TPI interfaces are consistent with TPI Revision 1.5, Draft 2.
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
