'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: tirdwr.4.man,v 0.9.2.4 2004/05/14 07:59:53 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:53 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TIRDWR 4 "$Date: 2004/05/14 07:59:53 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B tirdwr
\- a STREAMS TLI read/write module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/tihdr.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/tirdwr.h>
.HP 8
.BI "int " t " = open(" \fR\*(lq/dev/tcp\*(rq\fP ", " 0 );
.HP 8
.BI "int " retval "= ioctl(" t ", " \fRI_PUSH\fP ", " \fR\*(lqtirdwr\*(rq\fP );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B tirdwr
is a module that provides
.BR read (2),
.BR readv (2),
.BR write (2)
and
.BR writev (2)
support for streams supporting the Transport Provider Interface
.BR tpi (7).
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.PP
.B tirdwr
performs the following functions:
.IP (1) \w'(000)'u
.IP (2) \w'(000)'u
.IP (3) \w'(000)'u
.IP (4) \w'(000)'u
.IP (5) \w'(000)'u
.IP (6) \w'(000)'u
.IP (7) \w'(000)'u
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR read (2),
.BR readv (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR writev (2),
.BR timod (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B tirdwr
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B tirdwr
is compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.BR LiS ,
.[
LiS
.]
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
An implementation of
.B tirdwr
is provided with the
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
package, implemented by Ole Husgaard.
This implementation is buggy.
Ole Husgaard's implementation of
.B tirdwr
for
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
has a number of bugs:
.IP \(em
Although
.IR STREAMS (4)
handles packet reads and writes from the stream head using the
.B MSGDELIM
flag,
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
.B tirdwr
does not examine or generate
.B MSGDELIM
flags.  This means that
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
.B tirdwr
is unsuitable for use with packet-oriented connection-mode transport service
providers such as OSI conforming transport service providers.  (In fact,
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
.B tirdwr
doesn't handle expedited data transfer at all.)
.IP \(em
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
.B tirdwr
does not handle expedited data transfers correctly.  The correct behavior is to
generate a
.B SIGURG
signal as an
.B M_SIG
message and send it upstread before the
.BR T_EXDATA_IND (7)
converted to an
.BR M_DATA .
This signals the reader that the next read operation will read expedited
data rather than normal data.
.IP \(em
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
.B tirdwr
does not handle
.BR T_OPTDATA_IND (7)
messages.
.IP \(em
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
.B tirdwr
performs an error on disconnection or orderly release, but does not generate
the proper signals for asynchronous file I/O.
.IP \(em
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
.B tirdwr
performs an orderly release when popped and an orderly release is outstanding.
This situation should be dealt with by the TPI driver rather than the
read/write module.  The read/write module should be able to be pushed and
popped from an idle stream in any state without affecting the stream in any
way.
.IP \(em
.I Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
LfS
.]
.B tirdwr
is not bug for bug compatible with the
.B LiS
implementation.
.\"
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.PP
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID,
.[
xbd5
.]
XNS5,
.[
xns
.]
SUSv2,
.[
susv2
.]
SUSv3.
.[
susv3
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.HP 4
A
.B tirdwr
module was provided in
.B SVR 4\c
.
.[
svr4
.]
and is described in the
TPI.
.[
TPI Revision 2.0.0
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

