'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: x100p.4,v 0.9.2.1 2004/02/29 19:06:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/02/29 19:06:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH X100P 4 "$Date: 2004/02/29 19:06:54 $" "$Name:  $" "OpenSS7 Devices"
.SH NAME
.B x100p
\- T100P-SS7 and E100P-SS7 Card Drivers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #incldue <ss7/lmi.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/sdli.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/sdti.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/sli.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/sli_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/chi.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/chi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/mxi.h>
.br
.B #incldue <ss7/mxi_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " x100p_stream " = open(" x100p_device ", " flags );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B X100P
is a device driver for the Digium T100P and X100P 1-span T1/E1 PCI cards.
.PP
.B X100P
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
device driver that provides the Signalling Data Link Interface,
.BR sdli (7),
Signalling Data Terminal Interface,
.BR sdti (7),
Signalling Link Interface,
.BR sli (7),
Channel Interface,
.BR chi (7),
and
Multiplex Interface,
.BR mxi (7).
The
.BR sdli (7),
.BR sdti (7),
and
.BR sli (7),
interface can be used directly, or the
.BR sdl (4),
.BR sdt (4),
and
.BR sl (4),
modules can be pushed over a Channel Interface,
.BR chi (7).
.PP
.B X100P
provides the several devices that are directly compatible with a number of
stream types and interface protocols.  To select a stream type,
.I x100p_device
can be selected from the following devices:
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.I /dev/x100p-ss7
This device provides an
.BR SDL ,
.BR SDT ,
and
.BR SL ,
protocol service interface using SDL-, SDT- and SL-primitives of the
.BR sdli (7),
.BR sdti (7),
or
.BR sli (7).
This interface is suitable to be usde directly as an
.BR sdli (7)
device, or have an
.BR sdt (4),
or
.BR sl (4),
module pushed over the
.BR sdli (7)
or
.BR sdti (7)
interfaces.  At the
.BR sli (7)
interface level, this device is suitable to be linked under an
.BR mtp (4)
or
.BR m2ua (4)
mulitplexor.
The only bearer channel access that this device provides is using the
.BR sdli (4)
interface.
.TP
.I /dev/x100p-ch
This device provides a
.BR CH " and " MX
protocol service interface using
CH- and MX-primitives of the
.BR chi (7)
and
.BR mxi (7).
The
.BR mxi (7).
interface to this device is suitable to be linked under a Media Gateway
.BR mg (4),
multiplexor for complete bearer channel switching and control.
The
.BR chi (7)
interface to this device is suitable to have
.BR sdl (4),
.BR sdt (4)
and
.BR sl (4)
modules pushed over the channel to provide a
Signalling Link Interface,
.BR sli (7)
stream that can be then linked under a
.BR mtp (4)
or
.BR m2ua (4)
multiplexor for
.BR SS7 (4)
support.
.PP
The
.IR /dev/x100p-ss7 " and " /dev/x100p-ch
drivers are separate loadable modules and cannot be loaded at the same time.
.I /dev/x100p-sss7
is the older vintage driver that supported SS7 with meager support for bearer
channel access.
.I /dev/x100p-ch
is the newer vintage channel driver that provides complete support for bearer
channel access and uses pushable modules over a Channel Interface,
.BR chi (7),
to support SS7.  These modules are the
.BR sdl (4),
.BR sdt (4),
and
.BR sl (4)
modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of Local Management Interface IO controls,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
using the
.BR ioctl (2)
and
.I I_STR
command to the
.BR streamio (2)
system call on the
.IR x100p_stream
file descriptor.
The
.I /dev/x100p-ss7
device supports the SS7 Local Management Interface IO controls at the
.BR sdl_ioctl (4),
.BR sdt_ioctl (4),
and
.BR sl_ioctl (4),
levels.
The
.I /dev/x100p-ch
devices supports the MG Local Management Interface IO controls at the
.BR ch_ioctl (4),
and
.BR mx_ioctl (4),
levels.
This driver uses the
.BR sdl (4),
.BR sdt (4),
and
.BR sl (4)
modules to support the SS7 Local Management Interface IO controls.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B X100P
.I /dev/x100p-ss7
device supports all of the management IO controls described in
.BR sdl_ioctl (4),
.BR sdt_ioctl (4)
and
.BR sl_ioctl (4),
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em 4
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.PP
The
.B X100P
.I /dev/x100p-ch
device supports all of the management IO controls described in
.BR ch_ioctl (4),
and
.BR mx_ioctl (4),
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em 4
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.I /dev/x100p-ss7
device driver is deprecated.  For new applications use the
.I /dev/x100p-ch
driver and push the
.BR sdl (4),
.BR sdt (4),
and
.BR sl (4),
modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
Two drivers is confusing and the deprecated driver must be removed.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR ISDN (4),
.BR MG (4),
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR sdli (7),
.BR sdti (7),
.BR sli (7),
.BR chi (7),
.BR mxi (7),
.BR sdl_ioctl (4),
.BR sdt_ioctl (4),
.BR sl_ioctl (4),
.BR ch_ioctl (4),
.BR mx_ioctl (4),
.BR sdl (4),
.BR sdt (4),
.BR sl (4),
.BR mg (4),
.BR mtp (4),
.BR m2ua (4).
.SH "FILES"
.PP
.BR <ss7/lmi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdli.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdti.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sli.h> ,
.BR <ss7/sli_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/chi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/chi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mxi.h> ,
.BR <ss7/mxi_ioctl.h> .
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was updated $Date: 2004/02/29 19:06:54 $ for
.B strss7
release $Name:  $($Revision: 0.9.2.1 $).
.PP
The
.B X100P
driver is specific to the
.B OpenSS7
.BR SS7 (4)
and
.BR ISDN (4)
stacks.
The
.B X100P
driver will first appear in
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
At that time, the deprecated
.I /dev/x100p-ss7
driver will be removed.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
q700
.]
.[
q701
.]
.[
q702
.]
.[
q703
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
