'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: perftest.8.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/03/07 00:55:56 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/03/07 00:55:56 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: perftest.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/03/07 00:55:56  brian
.\" - package passes full documentation check
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2005/11/22 11:57:17  brian
.\" - updating documentation for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2005/11/20 22:20:09  brian
.\" - still working up documentation
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2005/11/01 11:20:59  brian
.\" - updates for testing and documentation
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2005/09/08 05:52:37  brian
.\" - added nullmod module and loop driver
.\" - corrections during testing
.\" - many ioctl(3p) test cases work very well now
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2005/07/01 20:51:07  brian
.\" - added test suite executable manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH PERFTEST 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B perftest, perftestn
\- \fISTREAMS\fR benchmark performance tests on a pipe
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBperftest\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBperftest\fP {\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fBperftest\fP {\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fBperftest\fP {\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.HP
\fBperftestn\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBperftestn\fP {\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fBperftestn\fP {\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fBperftestn\fP {\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B perftest
and
.B perftestn
perform benchmark performances tests on a
.BR pipe (4).
The purpose of the
.B perftest
performance benchmark is to perform comparison tests between
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4)
implementations.
The purpose of the
.B perftestn
performance benchmark is to perform comparison tests between
.B Linux
native
.BR pipe (4)s
and
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4)s.
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
also provides a
.B benchmark
test script that performs a number of benchmark runs and summarizes the results.  These performance
benchmark programs can be used for development, performance tuning and optimization, and validation
testing.
See the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@ Installation and Reference Manual
for more information on how to invoke the
.B autotest
test suites.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.BR perftest " and " perftestn
options fall into several categories as detailed in the subsections below.  If
.BR perftest " or " perftestn
are executed without any options, they will execute the default benchmark test and report the progress
and results of the test.
.SS Command Options
.PP
These command options determine whether a benchmark is run or whether an informative function is
performed instead.  If none of these command options are specified, then it is assumed that the
benchmark is to be executed.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered,
print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered,
print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered,
print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.SS General Options
.PP
The following options are applicable to all command options.  For other than test case command
options, these general options must appear ahead of the command option.
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Specifies that the caller is interested only in the return code and error diagnostics and that
normal output should be suppressed.
The default verbosity level if this option is not specified is
.BR 1 .
This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=0 .
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fILEVEL\fR]
Increases or sets the verbosity level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the verbosity level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the verbosity level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.
The default verbosity level if this option is not specified is
.BR 1 .
For example,
.B -vvvv
is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=5 .
.SS Test Options
.PP
The following options are only applicable if a benchmark run is in effect.
That is, these options are only effective if the benchmark run is executed and are used to modify
the manner in which benchmark is executed or results reported.
.TP
\fB-a\fP, \fB--async\fP
By default, the benchmark testing will use a single process to write to the write-side of the
.I pipe
and read from the read-side of the
.I pipe
in a synchronous fashion.  Synchronous testing provides more predictable and repeatable results.
When the
.B -a
option is specified,
.BR perftest " and " perftestn
will spawn two child processes, one which writes to the write-side of the
.I pipe
and one which reads from the read-side of the pipe.  Although higher throughputs are acheivable
using asyncrhonous processes in this fashion, it is sometimes more a test of the
.B Linux
scheduler than the underlying
.I pipe
implementation.
.TP
\fB-m\fP, \fB--module\fP[=]\fIMODNAME\fP
Specifies the name of a module to push on the write-side of the pipe.  The default is
.RB \(lq pipemod \(rq.
Other useful choices are
.RB \(lq nullmod \(rq
and
.RB \(lq bufmod \(rq.
.TP
\fB-p\fP, \fB--push\fP[=][\fICOUNT\fP]
Specifies the number of instances of
.I MODNAME
(as specified with the
.B -m
option) to push on the write-side of the
.IR pipe .
If
.I COUNT
is not given, the number of instances is incremented.
If
.I COUNT
is specified, the number of instances is set to
.IR COUNT .
The default number of instances is zero
.RB ( 0 ),
i.e, do not push any modules.
.TP
\fB-b\fP, \fB--blocking\fP
Normally the test is peformed with non-blocking operation on both sides of the
.IR pipe .
When non-blocking operation is used in syncrhonous mode, writes are performed to the write-side of
the
.I pipe
until
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
is returned and then reads are performed from the read-side of the
.I pipe
until
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
is returned and so on.  When the
.B -b
option is specified, blocking operation is used, and a single blocking write is performed to the
write-side of the
.I pipe
and then a single blocking read is performed from the read-side of the
.IR pipe .
Non-blocking synchronous operation has the effect that queues are filled with writes until flow
control exists before being emptied with reads.  Blocking synchronous operation has the effect that
a single message is passed from module to module to be read by the other end, and queues are left empty.
These two effects can be used to test the message passing performance of a chain of modules or the
queuing, enabling and back-enabling performance of a chain of modules.
.TP
\fB-s\fP, \fB--size\fP[=][\fIMSGSIZE\fP]
Specifies the message size,
.IR MSGSIZE ,
for each read and write.  The default is
.BR 64 bytes.
.TP
\fB-r\fP, \fB--readwrite\fP
By default, the benchmark tests are performed using
.BR getpmsg (2s)
and
.BR putpmsg (2s).
When the
.B -r
option is specified,
.BR read (2s)
and
.BR write (2s)
will be used instead.  (Note that this is the default for
.B Linux
native
.I pipe
testing, which does not support the
.BR getpmsg (2s)
or
.BR putpmsg (2s)
system calls.)
.TP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--time\fP[=][\fIREPORT\fP]
Specifies the reporting interval.  The default is
.B 1
second.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When
.BR perftest " or " perftestn
fails, they print a diagnostic message to
.I stderr
and exit with a non-zero return code.
.\"
.\"
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR perftest " and " perftestn
are normally invoked from the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
benchmark script.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
.BR pipe (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.BR pipemod (4),
.BR nullmod (4),
.BR bufmod (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/libexec/@PACKAGE@/perftest
contains the
.B perftest
command.
.TP
.B /usr/libexec/@PACKAGE@/perftestn
contains the
.B perftestn
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR STREAMS (4),
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Installation and Reference Manual" .
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR perftest " and " perftestn
have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR perftest " and " perftestn
are provided with the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
