'\" t
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sdl_xxx.8,v 0.9 2004/01/17 08:02:21 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1997-2001  Brian Bidulock.
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/01/17 08:02:21 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" $Log: sdl_xxx.8,v $
.\" Revision 0.9  2004/01/17 08:02:21  brian
.\" - Added files for 0.9 baseline autoconf release.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.8  2002/04/02 08:22:38  brian
.\" Started Linux 2.4 development branch.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7  2001/01/17 03:04:52  brian
.\" Added new man pages.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7  2001/01/17 00:28:38  brian
.\" Added sdl_udp man page.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7.2.1  2001/01/14 11:07:55  brian
.\" Changed headers back to GPL.
.\"
.\" Revision 0.7  2000/11/29 02:11:01  brian
.\" Added man pages for drivers.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.TH SDL_xxx 8 "$Date: 2004/01/17 08:02:21 $" "OpenSS7 Man Page" "OpenSS7 Programmer's Manual"
.SH "NAME"
sdl_xxx \- SDL emulation using \fIsome communications mechanism\fR
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <sys/streams.h>
.B #include <ss7/sdli.h>
.B #include <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h>
.sp
\fIfd\fB = open("\fI/dev/ss7-sdl\fRxxx\fI0\fB", \fIflags\fB);
\fIret\fB = ioctl(\fIfd\fB, \fIcmd\fB, ... /* \fIarg\fB */ );
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
SDL_xxx emulates a Signalling Data Link using a Linux kernel PACKET socket to
emulate the physical communications channel.
.PP
.I This SDL driver has not yet been written.

.\" .SH "ERROR HANDLING"

.\" .SH "CAVEATS"
.\" .PP
.\" SDL_UDP was never intended to be used as, or in conjunction with, a real SS7
.\" signalling network.  It is intended for laboratory use and experimentation
.\" only.  SDL_UDP makes no attempt to perform all of the Level 2 functions of
.\" SS7.  It is mostly intended as a simple way of providing a large number of
.\" L2 links for testing upper level protocol modules (such as MTP).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR devi (7),
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR lmi (7),
.BR mtpi (7),
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR read (2),
.BR sdl (8),
.BR sdli (8),
.BR sdt (8),
.BR sdti (7),
.BR sl (8),
.BR sli (7),
.BR slsi (7),
.BR ss7d (8),
.BR streamio (2),
.BR write (2)

.\" .SH "BUGS"
.\" .PP
.\" No known bugs.

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
Brian F. G. Bidulock, <bidulock@openss7.org>

.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
This STREAMS interface for SS7 is an original part of the \fIOpenSS7\fR package.

.SH "REFERENCES"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
l 1 li.
.TH
[Q702]:ITU-T Rec. Q.702 Signalling Data Link
[Q703]:ITU-T Rec. Q.703 Signalling Link
[Q704]:ITU-T Rec. Q.704 Message Transfer Part
.TE

.SH "COPYRIGHT NOTICE"
.PP
Copyright \(co 1997-2001  Brian Bidulock.  All Rights Reserved.
.sp
.ce 1
PERMISSION NOTICE
.PP
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all
copies.
.PP
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual
under the conditions for verbatim copyring, provided that the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical
to this one.
.PP
Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual page
may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no responsibility for
errors or omissions, or for damage resulting from the use of the information
contained herein.  The author(s) may not have taken the same level of care in
the production of this manual, which is licensed free of charge, as they might
when working professionally.
.PP
Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the
source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

