'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: slconfd.8.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-29 07:10:33 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:33 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: slconfd.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-29 07:10:33  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/01/21 20:22:39  brian
.\" - working up drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/01/15 11:33:55  brian
.\" - added new and old signalling link utilities
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SLCONFD 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.SH NAME
.B slconfd
\- Signalling Link Configuration Daemon
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBslconfd\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBslconfd\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBslconfd\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBslconfd\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B slconfd
is a configuration daemon for the SL-MUX multiplexing driver,
.BR sl-mux (4).
Its purpose is to open Signalling Link streams on various drivers, attach them
to specific PPAs, and link the SL streams under the SL-MUX multiplexing
driver, configure each SL lower multiplex Stream, and then wait in the
background listening for management events on a management stream.  Also, the
daemon watches for updates to the configuration file and applies the updates
as they occur.
.PP
The
.B slconfd
is intended to be run at system startup from a System V init script.  Once the
configuration of the SL-MUX multiplexing driver is complete, applications
programs can open, attach, enable and use Signalling Link streams opened on
the driver.
.PP
The purpose of the SL-MUX driver is to provide a unified interface for
accessing signalling links of a number of forms and from a number of various
drivers.  Signalling links could correspond to device drivers, or could be
M2UA signalling links or other implementations.  M2PA signalling links require
some additional configuration before they can be used and will be linked under
the SL-MUX by a separate M2PA configuration daemon.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
.BR -V ", " --version
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
.BR -C ", " --copying
When this option is encountered, print copyright and copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
When the
.BR -f " or " --file
.I filename
option is specified, the supplied file contains SL configuration entries as
follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Each line in the file contains one entry or comment per line.
.IP \(bu
Each entry consists of a number of fields delimited by whitespace (see
.BR isspace (3)).
.IP \(bu
Any field that begins with an octothorpe,
.RI ` # ',
character is a comment that continues to the end of the line.
.IP \(bu
Any line containing only a comment (beginning with optional whitespace
followed by an octothorpe,
.RI ` # ',
character) is ignored.
.PP
Each line containing an SL configuration specification entry consists of the
following fields:
.TP
(1) \fIclei\fR
A common language equipment identifier for the signalling link.
.TP
(2) \fIglobal-ppa\fR
A global Physical Point of Appearance.  This PPA can be used by streams
opening the SL-MUX to attach to this signalling link.
.TP
(3) \fIdevice-type\fR
The device type defines the type of device that is providing the signalling
link.  The device type can currently be one of:
.BR x400 ", " m2pa " or " m2ua .
The remaining fields are interpreted depending on the device type as follows:
.RS
.PP
When field (3) is
.BR x400 ,
the remaining fields are interpreted as follows:
.TP
(3) \fBx400\fR
.TP
(4) \fIdevice\fR
The device driver to open to obtain a serving signalling link.
This is the filesystem path to the appropriate device node.
.TP
(5) \fIlocal-ppa\fR
If the device above is a Style II device, the local Physical Point of
Attachment to which to attach the signalling link before it is linked under
the SL-MUX multiplexing driver.  If the device above is a Style I device, this
field should be a single dash,
.RI ` - '.
.PP
When field (3) is
.BR m2ua ,
the remaining fields are interpreted as follows:
.TP
(3) \fBm2ua\fR
.TP
(4) \fIdevice\fR
The device driver to open to obtain a serving signalling link.  This is the
filesystem path to the appropriate device node.
.TP
(5) \fIlocal-ppa\fR
The local Physical Point of Attachment to which to attach the signalling link
before it is linked under the SL-MUX multiplexing driver.  An m2ua device is
always a Style II device.
.PP
When field (3) is
.BR m2pa ,
the remaining fields are interpreted as follows:
.TP
(3) \fBm2pa\fR
.TP
(4) \fIdevice\fR
The device driver to open to obtain a serving transport provider.
This is the filesystem path to the appropriate device node.
.TP
(5) \fImodules\fR
A comma separated list of modules to pushed over the transport provider to
effect a signalling link.
.TP
(6) \fIlocal-address\fR
The local address to which to bind the transport provider.  This address can
be a hostname and service name or a numbers and dots notation IP address and
port number.
.TP
(7) \fIremote-address\fR
The remote address to which to connect the trasnport provider.  This address
can be a hostname and service name or a numbers and dots notation IP address
and port number.
.RE
.PP
.B slconfd
opens the configuration file and reads the entries line by line.  Each entry
is indepenendent of other entries.  For each entry,
.B slconfd
performs the following actions:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The daemon opens the device specified in the
.I device
field.
.IP 2.
If the
.I local-ppa
field is other than a signle dash, the daemon inteprets the field as a integer
number and uses the integer number in an
.BR LMI_ATTACH_REQ (7)
request to attach the opened Stream to the specific signalling link.
.IP 3.
The daemon links the signalling link under the SL-MUX multiplexing drivers
using the
.BR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control.
.IP 4.
The daemon uses SL-MUX specific input-output controls to assign the
.I global-ppa
and
.I clei
to the linked singalling link.  Streams opened on the SL-MUX driver can then
attach to this signalling link using the global PPA or the CLEI for the
signalling link.
.PP
Once the
.B slconfd
has linked and configured all of the signalling link streams specified in the
configuration file, it listens on the SL-MUX management stream for management
information, taking appropriate actions.
The daemon also watches the configuration file for changes and effects those
changes when they occur.  Changes are effected by linking additional
signalling links or unlinking existing signalling links to alter the
configuration of the SL-MUX to match that of the altered configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SIGNALS
.PP
During its operation the
.B slconfd
daemon accepts a number of signals as follows:
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message
is printed on
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Other programs may open and parse the configuration file to determine the
global PPA associated with a given Common Lanuage Equipment Identifier.  The
SL-MUX also supports a specialized input-output control that enables an
application program to provide a Common Lanuage Equiment Identifier and have
the driver translate that string to a global PPA.  The SL-MUX also supports
using the CLEI as the PPA in a
.BR LMI_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH DEVICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sl-mux (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B slconfd
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B slconfd
is an OpenSS7-specific configuration command.  Because this command is used at
startup and is transparent to the SL-User opening SL streams, compatibility is
not an issue.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
System configuration programs are not subject to standardization.
.B slconfd
conforms to OpenSS7 specifications.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B slconfd
first appeared in the OpenSS7
.B strss7-0.9a.6
package.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

