'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: slmon.8.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/01/21 20:22:39 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/01/21 20:22:39 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: slmon.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/01/21 20:22:39  brian
.\" - working up drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/01/15 11:33:55  brian
.\" - added new and old signalling link utilities
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SLMON 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.SH NAME
.B slmon
\- Signalling Link Monitor
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBslmon\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {{\fB-p\fR|\fB--ppa\fR} \fIPPA\fR}|{{\fB-c\fR|\fB--clei\fR} \fICLEI\fR}
.PD 0
.HP
\fBslmon\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBslmon\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBslmon\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B slmon
is a monitoring utility for the SL-MUX multiplexing driver,
.BR sl-mux (4).
Its purpose is to provide the ability to monitor any signalling link interface configured in the
host.
.PP
.B slmon
is a Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) capture daemon for performing SS7 signalling data collection on
one or more OpenSS7 signalling links.
.B slmon
opens a specialized minor device,
.IR /dev/sl-mon ,
on the signalling link multiplexer,
.BR sl-mux (4),
attaches to the appropriate signalling links and begins output of each received SL service
primitive,
.BR sli (7),
monitored on the signalling link.  The utility can be run in the foreground and print standard
output and errors to standard out and error, or to an output and log file; or it can run in the
background as a daemon process printing output and errors to a capture and log file.  The capture
and log files can be specified by the user.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
When specified without any options, the
.B slmon
utility will generate usage information and exit with a non-zero exit status.  One of
.BR -p " or " -c
must be given to get the utility to capture primitives across a service interface.  The
.B slmon
utility accepts the following command line options:
.\"
.SS "Command Options"
.PP
The following command options determine the mode of the command and are mutually exclusive options:
.TP
.BR -m ", " --muxid " " \fIMUXID\fP
Specifies the multiplexer identifier returned by the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
input-output control operation that linked the lower multiplex stream.  See
.BR sl-mux (4)
for more information on multiplexer identifiers.
.TP
.BR -p ", " --ppa " " \fIPPA\fP
Specifies the Physical Point of Appearance,
.IR PPA ,
associated with the signalling link to be monitored.  The Physical Point of Appearance is a
representation of the 32-bit number specifying the global PPA.  See
.BR sl-mux "(4) and " slconf (5)
for more information on global PPA addressing.
.TP
.BR -c ", " --clei " " \fICLEI\fP
Specifies the Common Language Equipment Identifier,
.IR CLEI ,
associated with the signalling link to be monitored.  The Common Language Equipment Identifier
is an ASCII string representation specifying the CLEI.  See
.BR sl-mux "(4) and " slconf (5)
for more information on CLEI addressing.
.TP
.BR -f ", " --cfgfile " " \fICFGFILE\fP
Capture using the configuration data and devices listed in the file,
.IR CFGFILE .
The default configuration file is
.RI \(lq /etc/sysconfig/ss7/slmon.conf \(rq.
This option is currently not supported.
.PP
One of the
.BR -p ", " -c " or " -f
options must be specified.  Otherwise,
.B slmon
will print usage information and exit with an error return value.
.PP
The following options are coding standard options for the OpenSS7 project that are supported by all
command line utilities:
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
.BR -V ", " --version
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
.BR -C ", " --copying
When this option is encountered, print copyright and copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.\"
.SS "General Options"
.PP
The following are general options controlling the output of the utility and can be applied to the
command in any mode:
.TP
.BR -q ", "  --quiet
Specifies that the caller is interested only in the return code and that normal output should be
suppressed.  This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 0 .
.TP
.BR -D ", "  --debug " [" \fILEVEL\fP ]
Increases or set the debugging level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the debugging level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the debugging level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.  For example,
.B -DDDDD
is equivalent to
.BR --debug = 5 .
The default debugging level is zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.TP
.BR -v ", " --verbose " [" \fILEVEL\fP ]
Increases or set the output verbosity level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the output verbosity level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the output verbosity level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.  For example,
.B -vvvvv
is equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 5 .
The default output verbosity level is one
.RB ( 1 ).
.\"
.SS "Capture Options"
.PP
The following options are applicable to the capture mode:
.TP
.BR -e ", " --device " " \fIDEVNAME\fR
Specifies the device name,
.IR DEVNAME ,
from which to capture.  The default device name is
.RI \(lq /dev/sl-mon \(rq.
.TP
.BR -t ", " --text2pcap
Specifes that the output format is to be generated as to be suitable as input to the
.BR text2pcap (1)
program.  The output format consists of a
.BR od (1)
.RI ( "od -t -x1" )
formatted dump of each Signalling Link SDU.  Messages not containing SDUs are
not output.
.TP
.BR -p ", " --provider
Specifies that upstream messages (or SDUs) are to be output.
This option is
useful for use with the
.B --text2pcap
option.
.TP
.BR -u ", " --user
Specifies that downstream messages (or SDUs) are to be output.
This option is
useful for use with the
.B --text2pcap
option.
.PP
When the
.B -p
option is specified and the
.B -u
option is not specified, then only upstream messages (or SDUs) are output.
When the
.B -u
option is specified and the
.B -p
option is not specified, then only downstream messages (or SDUs) are output.
If
neither the
.B -p
or
.B -u
options are specified, it is as though both options were specified and both
upstream and downstream messages (or SDUs) are output.
.\"
.SS "Daemon Options"
.PP
The following options are applicable to capturing in the daemon mode or to redirecting output and
errors:
.TP
.BR -d ", " --daemon
Specifies that the
.B slmon
utility is to run in the background as a daemon process.  When run as a daemon process, standard
output will always be redirected to
.I OUTFILE
and standard error will always be redirected to
.IR LOGFILE .
The default is for the
.B slmon
utility to run in the foreground output sent to
.I stdout
and errors sent to
.IR stderr .
.TP
.BR -O ", "  --outpdir " " \fIOUTPDIR\fR
When run in the daemon mode, or when an output or log file is specified, specifies the directory,
.IR OUTPDIR ,
in which output and error files will be opened.  The default output directory if one is not
specified with this option is
.RI \(lq /var/tmp/slmon/ \(rq.
.TP
.BR -n ", " --lnkname " [" \fILNKNAME\fR ]
When run in the daemon mode, or when an output or log file is specified, specifies the link name to
use to generate default output and error file names.  The default link name to use is the string
.RI \(lq slmon \(rq
concatenated with the process identification number of the creating process.
.TP
.BR -o ", " --outfile " [" \fIOUTFILE\fR ]
When run in daemon mode, or to redirect output to a file, this option specifies the output filename,
.IR OUTFILE .
Specifying this option, with or without an argument, or specifying the
.B --daemon
option, causes output to be sent to the specified or default output file.  The default output
filename is the link name concatenated with a
.RI \(lq .out \(rq
suffix.
.TP
.BR -l ", " --logfile " [" \fILOGFILE\fR ]
When run in daemon mode, or to redirect errors to a file, this option specifies the log filename,
.IR LOGFILE .
Specifying this option, with or without an argument, or specifying the
.B --daemon
option, causes errors to be sent to the specified or default log file.  The default log filename is
the link name concatenated with a
.RI \(lq .err \(rq
suffix.
.\"
.\"
.SH "OUTPUT FORMAT"
.PP
When
.B slmon
starts monitoring a signalling link, or reopens its output file, it outputs an informative header
that provides information about the signalling link being monitored and its configuration.
See
.RI \(lq EXAMPLES ,\(rq
below for an example of the informative header format.
.PP
This informative header is followed by a number of output lines.  Each output line corresponds to a
single service primitive that has traversed the SL service interface.  Each service primitive output
line starts with a common header that contains the following fields:
.TP
.RI < sequence >
A sequence number.  Each service primitive that passes the SL service interface is given a
monotonically increasing sequence number beginning with the number 1.  A missing sequence number
indicates that there was insufficient resources available to capture the service primitive
corresponding to the missing numbers.
.TP
.RI < timestamp >
A timestamp indicating the system clock time at which the service primitive was captured.  The
timestamp is formatted as:
.IR SSSSSSSSSSSS . UUUUUU ,
where the field consists of seconds
.RI ( S )
and microseconds
.RI ( U )
from the Epoch followed by a space.
.TP
.RI < direction >
The direction in which the primitive was passed.  This is either
.RB \(lq U-P \(rq
to indicate that the primitive was passed from the SL-User to the SL-Provider, or
.RB \(lq P-U \(rq
to indicate that the primitive was passed from the SL-Provider to the SL-User.
.TP
.RI < primitive >
The name of the service primitive that passed the interface.  This is one of the service primitives
defined for the Local Management Interface,
.BR lmi (7),
or Signalling Link Interface,
.BR sli (7),
by name.
.PP
The remaining fields provide the parameters of the service primitive and any user data associated
with the service primitive as a hexadecimal octet string.  Parameters are output with the parameter
name, followed by an equal sign,
.RI ` = ',
with no intervening whitespace, and the value of the parameter as a number or hexadecimal octet
string.
See
.RI \(lq EXAMPLES ,\(rq
below for an example of the service primitive output format.
.PP
When the
.B --text2pcap
options is specified, the output format is different.  Output of comment lines
(lines begining with `#') remains unchanged.  The only output lines not that
are not comment lines become
.BR od (1)
.RI ( "od -t x1" )
formatted dumps of the data portion of each SDL_PDU_REQ or SDL_PDU_IND primitive.  See
.BR text2pcap (1)
for more information on this format.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B slmon
is invoked from the command line or a shell script to monitor signalling links.  The signalling link
to monitor is specified using the
.BR -p ", " -c " or " -f
options.  The
.B -p
option is used to specify the signalling link to monitor using the global PPA for the signalling
link.  The
.B -c
option is used to specify the signalling link to monitor using the Common Language Equipment
Identifier for the signalling link.
The
.B -f
option is used to specify the signalling link to monitor from a file.
.PP
Once invoked,
.B slmon
begin printing formatted entries corresponding to SL service interface primitives to standard
output,
.IR stdout ,
if the
.BR -d " and " -o
options are not specified, or to
.I OUTFILE
if the
.BR -d " or " -o
option is specified.  When the
.B -d
option is specified,
.B slmon
also places itself in the background and closes standard input, output and error streams.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B slmon
is implemented to use the
.I /dev/sl-mon
minor device provided by the
.BR sl-mux (4)
multiplexing driver.
.B slmon
opens a
.I /dev/sl-mon
stream and attaches the stream to a specific signalling link using the
.BR LMI_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive and the global PPA or CLEI of the desired signalling link.  Once attached,
.B slmon
collects copies of service interface primitives that are delivered to the stream.  Each primitive is
formatted and printed either to standard output,
.IR stdout ,
or to a collection file specified with the
.B --outfile
option.
.\"
.\"
.SH SIGNALS
.PP
.B slmon
recognizes and catches a number of signals, useful when operating in the daemon mode, as follows:
.TP
.RI { SIGHUP }
This signal causes the
.B slmon
utility to close and reopen the output file
.IR OUTFILE ,
and the log file
.IR LOGFILE .
This signal is used to rotate files.  The output and log files are first moved by another process,
such as the
.BR logrotate (8)
utility, to another file name and then the
.RI { SIGHUP }
signal is sent to the daemon causing it to close the rotated file names and open new files of name
.IR OUTFILE " and " LOGFILE
to continue capture and logging.
An example
.BR logrotate (8)
script is as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
/usr/bin/killall -HUP slmon >/dev/null 2>/dev/null || true
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.RI { SIGTERM }
This signal causes the
.B slmon
utility to flush and close its output and log files, gracefully close the signalling links being
captured, and exit with a zero
.RB ( 0 )
exit status.
.TP
.RI { SIGARLM }
The
.B slmon
utility uses this signal for timers and this signal should not be used by external processes.
.TP
.RI { SIGUSR1 }
This signal causes the
.B slmon
utility in daemon mode to reread configuration information for the signalling link being captured
using input-output controls, and output the result to the output file.  This signal should be sent
when the signalling link is reconfigured.
(The
.BR sl-mux (4)
driver will issue a
.RI { SIGUSR1 }
signal to the process holding open a
.I /dev/sl-mon
device attached to a signalling link that has just passed an input-output control reconfiguring the
signalling link.)
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1) indicates that an
error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message is printed on
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses printing of diagnostic messages to
.BR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.BR -f ", " --cfgile = \fICFGFILE\fR
option is not yet implemented.
.PP
.B slmon
has an impact on system performance, particularly when used to monitor signalling links that are
carrying a high amount of traffic.  The
.BR sl-mux (4)
driver places a sequence number on each service primitive delivered to the
.B slmon
application.  When the system is congested and the
.B slmon
is unable to keep up with the number of service primitives delivered to it, messages will be
dropped.  Dropped messages can be detected by the occurrence of gaps in the sequence numbers
associated with the primitives.  The most likely service primitives to be dropped are
.BR SL_PDU_IND (7)
or
.BR SL_PDU_REQ (7)
primitives.
.PP
.B slmon
only monitors the Signalling Link service interface and the service primitives that traverse the
interface.  It does not monitor state machine transitions, or timer events.  Tracing of state
machine transitions and timer events is performed on a driver-by-driver basis.
For tracing of state
machine transitions and timer events, see the
.BR strace (8)
.IR STREAMS (9)
utility and the particular driver's manual page.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Running
.B slmon
in the foreground on a signalling link by CLEI:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#> slmon -c EDTNAB01CG1SL001
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Running
.B slmon
as a daemon process logging to
.IR mylink.out " and " mylink.err
in the
.I /var/log/slmon
directory:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#> slmon -d -c EDTNAB01CG1SL001 -n mylink
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Sample output file format:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-3\
\s+3\fP
.fi
.PP
Note that FISUs and LSSUs are not included, only MSUs that are passed between SL-User and
SL-Provider.  Also, the beginning of the message field starts with the SIO and represents only the
MSU payload.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.I /dev/sl-mon
The
.BR sl-mux (4)
monitoring device.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.I /var/sbin/slmon
contains the
.B slmon
command.
.TP
.I /var/tmp/slmon
The default capture output directory.
.TP
.IB /var/tmp/slmon/slmon $$ .out
The default capture output file, where
.B $$
is the process identification number of the creating process.
.TP
.IB /var/tmp/slmon/slmon $$ .err
The default capture log file, where
.B $$
is the process identification number of the creating process.
.TP
.I /etc/sysconfig/ss7/slconf.conf
The default configuration file.
.TP
.I /var/log/messages
The system log file.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR slconf (5),
.BR sl-mux (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B slmon
has no known bugs.
Report bugs to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B slmon
is backward compatible with previous versions of the utility.  The output format has not changed
over the various versions of the utility.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SS7
monitoring is not subject to standardization.  The
.B slmon
utility conforms to the OpenSS7 Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi (7),
version
.B 0.9.2
and the Signalling Link Interface (SLI),
.BR sli (7),
version
.BR 0.9.2 .
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B slmon
utility was new for the OpenSS7
.B strss7-0.9a.6
package release.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
