'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ss7capd.8.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-29 07:10:33 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:33 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ss7capd.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-29 07:10:33  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/01/15 11:33:55  brian
.\" - added new and old signalling link utilities
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SS7CAPD 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.SH NAME
.B ss7capd
\- SS7 Capture Daemon
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.ad l
.hy 0
.HP 12
\fBss7capd\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-f\fR|\fB--cfgfile\fR}
.PD 0
.HP
\fBss7capd\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [{\fB-c\fR|\fB--card\fR}\ \fICARD\fR] [{\fB-s\fR|\fB--span\fR}\ \fISPAN\fR] [{\fB-t\fR|\fB--slot\fR}\ \fISLOT\fR]
.HP
\fBss7capd\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBss7capd\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBss7capd\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.ad b
.hy 6
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ss7capd
is a capture deamon for the X400P-SS7 driver,
.BR x400p (4).
Its purpose is to capture monitored SS7 frames for later off-line analysis and correlation.
.PP
.B ss7capd
is a Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) capture daemon for performing SS7 signalling data collection on
one or more OpenSS7 signalling links.
.B ss7capd
opens a signalling link configured for use with the
.BR sdlconfig (8)
utility and enables receivers and begins output of each received SS7 signalling unit monitored on
the link.
The utility can run in the foreground and print output to standard output and errors to standard
error; or it can run in the background as a daemon process printing output to an output file and
errors to a log file.  The output and log files can be specified by the user.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
When specified without any options, the
.B ss7capd
utility will run in the foreground, and output data captured from the
.B /dev/x400p-sl
driver bound to card 0, span 0, timeslot 1, in ds0a mode.  Operation of the utility can be affected
using command line options.  The
.B ss7capd
utility accepts the following command line options:
.\"
.SS "Command Options"
.PP
The following command options determine the mode of the command and are mutually exclusive options:
.TP
.RB [ -c ", " --card " " \fICARD\fP "] [" -s ", " --span " " \fISPAN\fP "] [" -t ", " --slot " " \fISLOT\fP ]
Specifies that capture is to be performed from card,
.IR CARD ,
on span,
.IR SPAN ,
and timeslot
.IR SLOT .
The card number defaults to card zero
.RB ( 0 );
the span number to span zero
.RB ( 0 );
and the timeslot to timeslot one
.RB ( 1 ).
This is the default mode of operation for the
.B ss7capd
utility.
.TP
.BR -f ", " --filename " " \fICFGFILE\fP
Capture using the configuration data and devices listed in the file,
.IR CFGFILE .
This option is currently not supported.
.PP
The following options are coding standard options for the OpenSS7 project that are supported by all
command line utilities:
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help ", " -? ", " --?
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
.BR -V ", " --version
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
.BR -C ", " --copying
When this option is encountered, print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.\"
.SS "General Options"
.PP
The following are general options controlling the output of the utilily and can be applied to the
command in any mode:
.TP
.BR -q ", " --quiet
Specifies that the caller is interested only  in the return code and that normal output should be
suppressed.  This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 0 .
.TP
.BR -D ", " --debug " [" \fILEVEL\fP ]
Increases or set the debugging level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the debugging level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the debuggin level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.  For example,
.B -DDDDD
is equivalent to
.BR --debug = 5 .
The default debugging level is zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.TP
.BR -v ", " --verbose " [" \fILEVEL\fP ]
Increases or sets the output verbosity level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the output verbosity level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the verbosity level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.  For example,
.B -vvvvv
is equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 5 .
The default output verbosity is one
.RB ( 1 ).
.\"
.SS "Capture Options"
.PP
The following options are applicable to the capture mode.
.TP
.BR -e ", " --device " " \fIDEVNAME\fP
Specifies the device name,
.IR DEVNAME ,
from which to capture.  The default device name is
.RI \(lq /dev/x400p-sl \(rq.
.TP
.BR -a ", " --ds0a
Specifies that the channel being monitored is a DS0A channel rather than a DS0 channel.
.TP
.BR -0 ", " --ds0
Specifies that the channel being monitored is a DS0 channel rather than a DS0A channel.
.\"
.SS "Daemon Options"
.PP
The following options are applicable only to capturing in the daemon mode.
.TP
.BR -d ", " --daemon
Specifies that the
.B ss7capd
utility is to run as a daemon.  When run as a daemon, output will be redirected to
.I OUTFILE
and errors will be redirected to
.IR LOGFILE .
The default is for the
.B ss7capd
utility to run in the foreground with output to
.I stdout
and errors to
.IR stderr .
.TP
.BR -O ", " --outpdir " " \fIOUTPDIR\fR
When run in the daemon mode, specifies the directory,
.IR OUTPDIR ,
in which output and error files will be opened.  The default output directory is
.IR \(lq /var/tmp/ss7capd \(rq.
.TP
.BR -n ", " --lnkname " " \fILNKNAME\fR
When run in daemon mode, specifies the link name to use to generate default output and error file
names.  The default link name to use is the string
.RB \(lq ss7capd \(rq
concatenated with the process identfication number of the creating process.
.TP
.BR -o ", " --outfile " " \fIOUTFILE\fR
When run in daemon mode, specifies the output filename,
.IR OUTFILE .
The default output filename is the link name concatenated with a
.RB \(lq .out \(rq
suffix.
.TP
.BR -l ", " --logfile " " \fILOGFILE\fR
When run in daemon mode, specifies the errors filename,
.IR LOGFILE .
The default errors filename is the link name concatenated with a
.RB \(lq .err \(rq
suffix.
.\"
.\"
.SH "OUTPUT FORMAT"
.PP
The output format generated by
.B ss7capd
is formatted as follows:
.TP
.B SSSSSSSSSSSS.UUUUUU
a timestamp field consisting of seconds
.RB ( S )
and microseconds
.RB ( U )
since the Epoch followed by a space.
.PP
The timestamp is followed by one of the following two fields:
.TP
.B #
followed by a header field comment.
.PP
or
.TP
.B XXXXXXXXXX...
a hexadecimal octet string representation of the caputured message followed by a newline.
.PP
.B ss7capd
will append a new header to the file each time that it is reopened, sucha s when it starts
initially, or whe it reopens the file as a rsult of receiving a
.RI { SIGHUP }
signal.
.PP
See
.RI \(lq EXAMPLES ,\(rq
below.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B ss7capd
is invoked from the command line or a shell script to monitor signalling data terminals (signalling
links).  The signalling link to monitor is specified using the
.BR -c ", " -s " and " -t
options.  The
.B -c
option specifies the logical card; the
.B -s
option specifies the logical span within the card; and the
.B -t
option specifies the timeslot within the span.
.PP
Once invoked,
.B ss7capd
begins printing formatted entries corresponding to SDT service primitives to standard output,
.IR stdout ,
if the
.BR -d " or " -o
options are not specified, or to
.I OUTFILE
if the
.BR -d " or " -o
option is specified.  When the
.B -d
option is specified,
.B ss7capd
places itself in the background and closes standard input, output and error streams.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B ss7capd
is implemented to use the
.I /dev/x400p-sl
minor device provided by the
.BR x400p (4)
driver.
.B ss7capd
opens a
.I /dev/x400p-sl
stream and attaches the stream to the specified signalling link using the
.BR LMI_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive and the PPA formed from the card, span and timeslot specified.  Once attached,
.B ss7capd
activates the SDT interface and begins capturing frames.  Each frame is formatted and printed either
to standard output,
.IR stdout ,
or to a collection file specified with the
.B -d
and
.B -o
options.
.\"
.\"
.SH SIGNALS
.PP
.B ss7capd
recognizes a number of signals, useful when operating in the daemon mode, as follows:
.TP
.RI { SIGHUP }
This signal causes the
.B ss7capd
utility to close and reopen the output file
.IR OUTFILE ,
and the errors file
.IR LOGFILE .
This signal is used to rotate files.  The output and errors files are first moved by another
process, such as the
.BR logrotate (8)
utility, to another file name and then the
.RI { SIGHUP }
signal is sent to the daemon cause it to close the rotated file names and open new files of name
.IR OUTFILE
and
.IR LOGFILE
to continue capture and logging.  An example
.BR logrotate (8)
script is as follows:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
/usr/bin/killall -HUP ss7capd >/dev/null 2>/dev/null || true
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.TP
.RI { SIGTERM }
This signal causes the
.B ss7capd
utility to flush and close its output and errors files, gracefully close the signalling link being
captured, and exit with a zero
.BR ( 0 )
exit status.
.TP
.RI { SIGALRM }
The
.B ss7capd
utility uses this signal for timers and this signal should not be issued by external processes.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When
.B ss7capd
fails, a diagnostic message is printed on standard error and a non-zero exit status is returned.  If
standard error has already been redirected to the log file, the log file will contain the diagnostic
message.
.PP
An exit status of zero
.RB ( 0 )
indicates that the command was successful; one
.BR ( 1 )
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two
.BR ( 2 )
indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message is printed on
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.PP
Also,
.B ss7capd
logs notices, warnings and diagnostic error messages under facility
.I daemon
to the system log, regardless of whether it is running in the foreground or as a daemon.  See
.BR syslog (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.BR -f ", " --cfgfile = \fICFGFILE\fP
option is not yet implemented.
.PP
.B ss7capd
has an impact on system performance, particularly when used to monitor signalling links that are
carrying a high amount of traffic.  The
.B x400p (4)
driver will drop messages if the
.B ss7capd
cannot keep up with the message flow.  Dropped messages cannot currently be detected.  The most
likely messages to be dropped are
.BR SL_PDU_IND (7)
messages.
.PP
.B ss7capd
only monitors the Signalling Data Terminal service interface and the service primitives that
traverse the interface.  It does not monitor state machine transitions, or timer events.  It does
not monitor at the signalling link level.  For tracing of primitives at the signalling link level,
see the
.BR slmon (8)
utility.  For tracing of state machine transitions and timer events, see the
.BR strace (8)
.IR STREAMS (9)
utility and the particular driver's manual page.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Running
.B ss7capd
in the foreground on a V401P card 0, span 0, channel 14:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#> ss7capd -c 0 -s 0 -t 14
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Running
.B ss7capd
as a daemon process logging to
.I myalink.out
and
.I myalink.err
in the
.I /var/log/ss7capd/
directory:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#> ss7capd -d -c 0 -s 0 -t 14 -n myalink
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
Sample output file format:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-3\
001067476343.682774 # SS7CAPD $Id: ss7capd.8.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-29 07:10:33 brian Exp $ Output File Header
001067476343.682774 # machine: Linux daisy 2.4.18 #3 Tue Oct 28 05:22:20 MST 2003 i686
001067476343.682774 # device: /dev/x400p-sl (0:1:14) myalink
001067476343.682774 # original file name: /var/log/ss7capd/myalink.out
001067476343.682774 # host: daisy
001067476343.682774 # date: Wed Oct 29 18:12:23 2003
001067476488.843563 ffe0234242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242
001067476488.848569 ffe1234242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242
001067476488.854619 ffe2234242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242
001067476488.859545 ffe3234242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242
001067476488.860555 ffe30103
001067476488.955572 ffe4234242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242
001067476488.956573 ffe40103
001067476488.956599 ffe400
001067476488.961575 ffe5234242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242424242
001067476488.962554 ffe50103
\s+3\fP
.fi
.PP
Note that (compressed) FISUs and LSSUs are also included.  Also, the beginning of the message field
start with the BSN/BIB and FSN/FIB bits capture from the line and represents the entire SS7 SU.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.I /dev/x400p-sl
The default device belonging to the
.BR x400p (4)
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.I /var/sbin/ss7capd
contains the
.B ss7capd
command.
.TP
.I /var/tmp/ss7capd
The default capture output directory.
.TP
.IB /var/tmp/ss7capd/ss7cap $$ .out
The default capture output file, where
.B $$
is the process identification number of the creating process.
.TP
.IB /var/tmp/ss7capd/ss7cap $$ .err
The default capture errors file, where
.B $$
is the process identification number of the creating process.
.TP
.I /etc/sysconfig/ss7/ss7capd.conf
The default configuration file.
.TP
.I /var/log/messages
The system log file.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR x400p (4),
.BR slmon (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B ss7capd
has no known bugs.
Report bugs to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B ss7capd
is backward compatible with previous versions of the utility.  The output format has not changed
over the various version of the utility.
Output from the program is compatible with the ISUP correlation engine,
.BR isupcre (1),
used to perform off-line ISUP call correlation.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SS7 capture is not subject to standardization.  The
.B ss7capd
utility conforms to the OpenSS7
Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi (7),
version
.B 0.9.2
and the Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI),
.BR sdti (7),
version
.BR 0.9.2 .
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B ss7capd
originally appeared in the OpenSS7
.BR strss7
package in version
.BR 0.8.2 .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
