.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ss7dev.8.man,v 0.9.2.1 2004/04/17 21:18:08 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corp. <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 21:18:08 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.TH SS7DEV 8 "$Date: 2004/04/17 21:18:08 $" "OpenSS7 Man Page" "OpenSS7 Programmer's Manual"
.SH "NAME"
ss7dev \- Signalling System No. 7 Devices
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <ss7/lmi.h>
.B #include <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h>
.B #include <ss7/sdli.h>
.B #include <ss7/sdli_ioctl.h>
.B #include <ss7/sdti.h>
.B #include <ss7/sdti_ioctl.h>
.B #include <ss7/sli.h>
.B #include <ss7/sli_ioctl.h>
.sp
\fIfd\fB = open("\fI/dev/x100p-ss7\fB", \fIflags\fB\));\fR
\fIfd\fB = open("\fI/dev/x400p-ss7\fB", \fIflags\fB\));\fR
\fIfd\fB = open("\fI/dev/cpc388\fB", \fIflags\fB\));\fR
\fIfd\fB = open("\fI/dev/pca200e\fB", \fIflags\fB\));\fR
\fIfd\fB = open("\fI/dev/acb56\fB", \fIflags\fB\));\fR
.sp
\fIret\fB = putmsg(\fIfd\fB, \fIctrl\fB, \fIdata\fB\));\fR
\fIret\fB = getmsg(\fIfd\fB, \fIctrl\fB, \fIdata\fB\));\fR
\fIret\fB = ioctl(\fIfd\fB, \fIcmd\fB, ... /* \fIarg\fB\) */ );\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SS "Interfaces"
.PP
SS7 device drivers are STREAMS character special device drivers which provide
one or more of the following interfaces:
.TP
.BR sdli (7)
The Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI) which provides access to the SS7
Level 1 bit channel.

.TP
.BR sdti (7)
The Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI) which provides access to the SS7
Level 1 bit channel after flags delimitation, bit stuffing and CRC calculation.

.TP
.BR sli (7)
The Signalling Link Interface (SLI) which provides access to the SS7 Level 2
signalling link.
.SS "Device Drivers"
.PP
SS7 device drivers supporting these and other interfaces are as follows:
.TP
.BR x100p-ss7 (4)
This a driver for the T100P-SS7 or E100P-SS7 cards.

.TP
.BR x400p-ss7 (4)
This a driver for the T400P-SS7 or E400P-SS7 cards.

.TP
.BR cpc388 (8)
This a driver for the CPC-388 card.

.TP
.BR pca200e (8)
This a driver for the PCA-200E card.

.TP
.BR acb56 (8)
This a driver for the ACB56 card.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>.
.SH "VERSIONS"
.PP
This man page is new for OpenSS7 strss7-0.8.4.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR open (2),
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR sdli (7),
.BR sdti (7),
.BR sli (7),
.BR x100p-ss7 (4),
.BR x400p-ss7 (4),
.BR cpc388 (8),
.BR pca200e (8),
.BR acb56 (8)
.SH "REFERENCES"
.PP
Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI) Specification
.PP
Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI) Specification
.PP
Signalling Link Interface (SLI) Specification
.PP
ITU-T Recommendation Q.700
.PP
ITU-T Recommendation Q.701
.PP
ITU-T Recommendation Q.703
.SH "COPYRIGHT NOTICE"
.PP
\f(HRCopyright \(co 1997-2003 OpenSS7 Corporation.  All Rights Reserved.
.PP
.ce 1
\f(HRPERMISSION NOTICE\fR
.PP
\f(HRPermission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual provided that
the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all copies.
.PP
\f(HRPermission is grated to copy and distribute modified version of this manual under the
conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting derived work is distributed
under the terms of a permission notice identical to this one.
.PP
\f(HRSince the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this manual may be incorrect
or out-of-date.  The author(s) and copyright holder(s) assume no responsibility whatsoever for
errors or omissions, or for damage resulting from the use of the information contained herein.
The author(s) and copyright holder(s) may not have taken the same level of care in the
production of this manual, which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
professionally.
.PP
\f(HRFormated or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by the source, must
acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
