'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ss7statsd.8.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-05-03 13:23:28 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-05-03 13:23:28 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ss7statsd.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-05-03 13:23:28  brian
.\" - added strx25 sub-package and package updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-30 14:05:06  brian
.\" - updates to pass make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2008-04-28 07:39:46  brian
.\" - added missing manpages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SS7STATSD 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.SH NAME
.B ss7statsd
\- SS7 Statistics Daemon
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
\fBss7statsd\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
.HP
\fBss7statsd\fP {\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fBss7statsd\fP {\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fBss7statsd\fP {\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP}
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B ss7statsd
is a user-space C-language program that can be run in the background as a
daemon process to periodically collect, tally and record operational
measurement data.  But, see
.RI \(lq NOTICES \(rq.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.\"
.SS Command Options
.PP
The following command options determine the mode of the command and are
mutually exclusive options:
.TP
\fB-n\fP, \fB--nodaemon\fP
Specifies that the
.B ss7statsd
is to run in the foreground with output to standard out and errors to standard
error (unless overridden by options).  This is the default when \fB--debug\fP
is specified.  Otherwise,
.B ss7statsd
normally closes standard input, output and error and places itself in the
background as a daemon process, reading configuraiton from the configuration
file, sending output to the output file, and sending errors to the log file.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB-?\fP, \fB--?\fP, \fB--help\fP
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered, print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.\"
.SS Collection Options
.PP
The following options specify the device names from which to collect
statistics and events.
.TP
\fB-L\fP, \fB--slmx\fP [\fIDEVNAME\fP[,\fIDEVNAME\fP]]
Specifies the device names,
.IR DEVNAME ,
from which to collect signalling link statistics.  The default device name is
.RI \(lq /dev/sl-stats \(rq.
.TP
\fB-M\fP, \fB--mtpx\fP [\fIDEVNAME\fP[,\fIDEVNAME\fP]]
Specifies the device names,
.IR DEVNAME ,
from which to collect message transfer part statistics.  The default device name is
.RI \(lq /dev/mtp-stats \(rq.
.TP
\fB-S\fP, \fB--sccp\fP [\fIDEVNAME\fP[,\fIDEVNAME\fP]]
Specifies the device names,
.IR DEVNAME ,
from which to collect signalling connection control part statistics.  The
default device name is
.RI \(lq /dev/sccp-stats \(rq.
.TP
\fB-T\fP, \fB--tcap\fP [\fIDEVNAME\fP[,\fIDEVNAME\fP]]
Specifies the device names,
.IR DEVNAME ,
from which to collect transaction capabilities application part statistics.  The
default device name is
.RI \(lq /dev/tcap-stats \(rq.
.TP
\fB-I\fP, \fB--isup\fP [\fIDEVNAME\fP[,\fIDEVNAME\fP]]
Specifies the device names,
.IR DEVNAME ,
from which to collect integrated services digital network user part
statistics.  The default device name is
.RI \(lq /dev/isup-stats \(rq.
.\"
.SS Daemon Options
.PP
The following options are useful in daemon mode to redirect standard output to
an output file and standard error to a log file.
.TP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--interval\fP \fIINTERVAL\fP
.TP
\fB-O\fP, \fB--outpdir\fP \fIDIRECTORY\fP
When run in the daemon mode, specifies the directory,
.IR DIRECTORY ,
in which output and error files will be opened.  The default output directory is
.IR \(lq /var/tmp/ss7statsd \(rq.
.TP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--outfile\fP \fIFILENAME\fP
When run in daemon mode, specifies the output filename,
.IR FILENAME .
The default output filename is the process name concatenated with a
.RB \(lq .out \(rq
suffix.
.TP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--logfile\fP \fIFILENAME\fP
When run in daemon mode, specifies the errors filename,
.IR FILENAME .
The default errors filename is the process name concatenated with a
.RB \(lq .err \(rq
suffix.
.TP
\fB-f\fP, \fB--cfgfile\fP \fIFILENAME\fP
Not implemented.
.\"
.SS General Options
The following are general options controlling the output of the utilily and
can be applied to the command in any mode:
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Specifies that the caller is interested only  in the return code and that
normal output should be suppressed.  This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 0 .
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--debug\fP \fILEVEL\fP
Increases or set the debugging level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the debugging level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the debuggin level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.  For example,
.B -ddddd
is equivalent to
.BR --debug = 5 .
The default debugging level is zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP \fILEVEL\fP
Increases or sets the output verbosity level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the output verbosity level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the verbosity level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.  For example,
.B -vvvvv
is equivalent to
.BR --verbose = 5 .
The default output verbosity is one
.RB ( 1 ).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When
.B ss7statsd
fails, a diagnostic message is printed on standard error and a non-zero exit
status is returned.  If standard error has already been redirected to the log
file, the log file will contain the diagnostic message.
.PP
An exit status of zero
.RB ( 0 )
indicates that the command was successful; one
.BR ( 1 )
indicates that an error occured and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two
.BR ( 2 )
indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message is
printed on
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.PP
Also,
.B ss7statsd
logs notices, warnings and diagnostic error messages under facility
.I daemon
to the system log, regardless of whether it is running in the foreground or as
a daemon.  See
.BR syslog (2).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Use of a statistics daemon such as
.BR ss7statsd
to collect statistics from SS7 drivers and modules and then dump them to files
in specialized formats is deprecated and no longer the preferred method for
operational measurement data colllection on the OpenSS7 SS7 Stack and systems.
A SNMP/CMIP agent that provides operational measurement data collection and
management is now the preferred method.
The
.BR -f ", " --cfgfile = \fICFGFILE\fP
option is not yet implemented.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B ss7statsd
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.I /var/sbin/ss7statsd
contains the
.B ss7statsd
command.
.TP
.I /var/tmp/ss7statsd
The default capture output directory.
.TP
.IB /var/tmp/ss7statsd/ss7statsd $$ .out
The default capture output file, where
.B $$
is the process identification number of the creating process.
.TP
.IB /var/tmp/ss7statsd/ss7statsd $$ .err
The default capture errors file, where
.B $$
is the process identification number of the creating process.
.TP
.I /etc/sysconfig/ss7/ss7statsd.conf
The default configuration file.
.TP
.I /var/log/messages
The system log file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR x400p (4),
.BR slmon (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B ss7statsd
is backward compatible with previous versions of the utility.  The output
format has not changed over the various version of the utility.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.PP
SS7 statistics and event collection is not subject to standardization.  The
.B ss7statsd
utility conforms to the OpenSS7
Local Management Interface (LMI),
.BR lmi (7),
version
.B 0.9.2
and the Signalling Link Interface (SLI),
.BR sli (7),
version
.BR 0.9.2 .
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B ss7statsd
originally appeared in the OpenSS7
.BR strss7
package in version
.BR 0.9a.8 .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
