'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: strconf.8.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/03/30 13:39:44 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corp. <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:39:44 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH STRCONF 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.SH NAME
.B strconf \-
STREAMS configuration utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-b " number
Set the base major number for automatic assignment of major device numbers.
The
.B LiS
.[
LiS
.]
.I Configure
script, run from the top level \*(lqmake,\*(rq uses the value of the
environment vairable
.B ${LIS_MAJOR_BASE}
to set this parameter, or a default value if this variable is not defined.  By
defining this symbol in your environment, you can override the default base
for major device numbers.
.TP
.BI "-h " file
.TP
.BI "-l " file
.TP
.BI "-L " file
.TP
.BI "-m " file
.TP
.BI "-M " name
.TP
.BI "-o " file
.TP
.BI "-p " perm
.TP
.BI "-r " name

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR strconf_config (5).
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
This man page was shamelessly stolen directly from the
.BR "LiS htdocs" .
