'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=100
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: tcapconf.8.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/08/03 13:02:46 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/08/03 13:02:46 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: tcapconf.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/08/03 13:02:46  brian
.\" - added documentation and minimal modules
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TCAPCONF 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.SH NAME
.B tcapconf
\- TCAP Configuration Utility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 12
\fBtcapconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [{\fB-g\fR|\fB--get\fR} [{\fIAOID\fR|\fITEI\fR} [\fI...\fR]]]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBtcapconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-r\fR|\fB--remove\fR} [{\fIAOID\fR|\fITEI\fR} [\fI...\fR]]
.HP
\fBtcapconf\fR [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-a\fR|\fB--add\fR} \fIAOID\fR \fITEI\fR \fIarguments\fR \fI...\fR
.HP
\fBtcapconf\fR [\fIoptoins\fR] {\fB-f\fR|\fB--file\fR} [\fIFILENAME\fR]
.HP
\fBtcapconf\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBtcapconf\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBtcapconf\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B tcapconf
is a configuration utility for the TCAP driver,
.BR tcap (4).
.\"
.\"
Its purpose is to
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B tcapconf
provides the following command-line options:
.SS "Command Options"
.PP
One of the following mutually exclusive command options must be specified.  If no command options
are specified,
.B tcapconf
will act as though the
.B -g
option was specified and print the configuration for all TCAP Entities.
.TP
[{\fB-g\fP|\fB--get\fP} [{\fIAOID\fP|\fITEI\fP} [\fI...\fR]]]
Get and display the configuration information associated with a specific set of AOID or TEI, or get
and display information for all TEIs (if no arguments are specified).  The information is displayed
in the same format as contained in the
.BR tcapconf (5)
configuration file.  This option can be used to obtain information about specific TCAP entities
as well as providing the ablity to regenerate the
.B tcap
entries in the
.BR tcapconf (5)
configuration file.
(See
.RI \(lq EXAMPLES ,\(rq
below.)
.RS
.PP
Arguments consist of a whitespace separated list of one or more of the following arguments:
.TP
.I AOID
An Application Object Identifier (AOID) specifying a TCAP Entity for which to display
information.
.TP
.I TEI
A global TCAP Entity Identifier (TEI) specifying a TCAP Entity for which to display
information.
.PP
If no arguments are supplied, the
.B tcapconf
utility will display information for all TCAP Entities of type
.BR tcap .
.RE
.TP
{\fB-r\fP|\fB--remove\fP} [{\fIAOID\fP|\fITEI\fP} [\fI...\fR]]
Remove TCAP Entities from the TCAP multiplexer for a specific set of AOID or TEI, or remove
TCAP Entities for all TEIs (if no arguments are specified).
This option can be used by configuration scripts to remove specific TCAP Entities from the TCAP driver.
.RS
.PP
Arguments consist of a whitespace separated list of one or more of the following arguments:
.TP
.I AOID
An Application Object Identifier (AOID) specifying a TCAP Entity to remove.
.TP
.I TEI
A global TCAP Entity Identifier (TEI) specifying a TCAP Entity to remove.
.PP
If no arguments are supplied, the
.B tcapconf
utility will remove all TCAP Entities of type
.BR tcap .
.RE
.TP
{\fB-a\fP|\fB--add\fP} \fIAOID\fP \fITEI\fP \fIarguments\fR \fI...\fR
Add TCAP Entities to the TCAP multiplexer for a specific TCAP Entity.  The format of the
arguments are the same as for the
.B sl
entry in the
.BR tcapconf (5)
configuration file.
This option can be used by configuration scripts to add specific TCAP Entities to the TCAP driver.
.RS
.PP
Arguments consist of the following fields separated by whitespace:
.TP
.I clei
The Application Object Identifier (AOID) to associate with the added TCAP Entity.
.TP
.I ppa
The global TCAP Entity Identifier (TEI) to associated with the added TCAP Entity.
.TP
.I profile
Specifies the TCAP Entity profile to use, or the special value,
.RB \(lq default ,\(rq
specifying that the default TCAP Entity profile is acceptable for the TCAP Entity.  The
named profile, if other than
.RB \(lq default ,\(rq
must exist in the
.BR tcapconf (5)
configuration file.
.TP
.I type
Always
.BR tcap .
.TP
.I device
Specifies the device driver to open to create a SCCP Stream.  Typically
\(lq\fB/dev/sccp\fINN\fR,\(rq
for the SCCP driver,
where
.I NN
is the number of the Network Appearance to which the SCCP corresponds.
for the SCCP driver.
.TP
.I modules
Modules to push on the opened Stream to form the SCCP Stream.  Typically null
.RB ( - )
for the SCCP driver.
.TP
.I mode
Specifies the traffic mode type for the application server.  This value can be one of the following
values:
.BR override ", " loadshare " or " broadcast .
.TP
.I sdl-profile
.TP
.I sdt-profile
.RE
.TP
{\fB-f\fP|\fB--file\fP} [\fIFILENAME\fR]
Add, remove, and configure TCAP Entities according to the TCAP Entity configuration
specified in the file,
.IR FILENAME .
If no
.I FILENAME
argument is specified, the default configuration file at
.B /etc/sysconfig/tcapconfd
is read.
The file specified by
.I FILENAME
must be in
.BR tcapconf (5)
format, and on the
.B tcap
.I type
entries are processed by the
.B tcapconf
utility.
.TP
{\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP|\fB-?\fP|\fB--?\fP}
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
{\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
{\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
When this option is encountered, print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
The file format is as described in
.BR tcapconf (5),
with the additional fields defined for devices of type
.B tcap .
Signalling link specification line entries in the file consist of the following fields:
.PP
.B tcap
.RI < aoid >
.RI < global-tei >
.RI < profile >
.RI < type >
.RI < device >
.RI < modules >
.RI < version >
.RI < sdli >
.RI < sdti >
.RI < iid >
.RI < sdl-profile >
.RI < sdt-profile >
.PP
Where,
.TP
.B tcap
is the selector indicating that this is a signalling link definition entry.
.TP
.I aoid
is an Application Object Identifier (AOID) to be associated with this TCAP Entity.
.TP
.I global-ppa
is a global TCAP Entity Identifier (TEI) to be associated with this TCAP Entity.
.TP
.I profile
is a TCAP Entity protocol parameters profile used to configure this TCAP Entity.  The
profile must either be the default entry,
.RI \(lq default ,\(rq
or must be defined in the
.BR tcapconf (5)
configuration file.
.TP
.I type
Always
.BR sccp .
.TP
.I device
is the device to open to create a SCCP Stream.  For the SCCP the device is normally
\(lq\fB/dev/sccp\fINN\fR,\(lq
where
.I NN
is the number of the SCCP Network Appearance to which the signalling link corresponds.
.TP
.I modules
is the modules to push over the open device Stream necessary to create a signalling link Stream
supporting the Signalling Link Interface (SLI),
.BR sli (7).
This field is a comma-separated list of module names, with no intervening whitespace.  Modules are
pushed in the order in which they appear in the list.  For TCAP, the module list is normally null
and is specified as a single dash,
.RB ` - '.
.TP
.I version
is the protocol version for TCAP.  This field can be one of the following:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBrfc3332\fR\(em'u
.B rfc3331
RFC 3331
.[
rfc3331
.]
.RE
.TP
.I sdli
is the Signalling Data Link Identifier that is used to identify (to external entities) the physical
signalling data link.  This number is a 16-bit integer and many be Circuit Identification Code
(CIC).
.TP
.I sdti
is the Signalling Data Terminal Identifier that is used to identify (to external entities) the
termination of the signalling data link on a signalling terminal.
.TP
.I iid
is the interface identifier use to identify the signalling link to the remote Signalling Gateway.
When the above value,
.IR sdli " and " sdti
are defined, and this field is specified as default by using a single dash,
.RB ` - ',
and the SG supports dynamic configuration, then the
.IR sdli " and " sdti
fields will be used in a link key to register the signalling link with the remote Signalling Gateway
and obtain a dynamically registered Interface Identifier.
When an integer Interface Identifier is used, it should be the same as the global TEI.  When a text
Interface Identifier is used, it should be the same as the AOID.
.TP
.I mode
is the traffic mode type for the signalling link interface.  The traffic mode type can take on
values as follows:
.BR override ", " loadshare " or " broadcast .
.TP
.I sdl-profile
is the signalling data link parameters profile to configure the signalling data link.  The profile
must either be the default entry consisting of a single dash,
.RB ` - ',
or must be defined in the
.BR tcapconf (5)
configuration file.  It is also possible to place the parameter definitions in-line, or
modifications some parameter definitions, enclosed in braces,
.RB ( {} )
following either the profile name, or by themselves.
.TP
.I sdt-profile
is the signalling data terminal parameters profile to configure the signalling data terminal.  The profile
must either be the default entry consisting of a single dash,
.RB ` - ',
or must be defined in the
.BR tcapconf (5)
configuration file.  It is also possible to place the parameter definitions in-line, or
modifications some parameter definitions, enclosed in braces,
.RB ( {} )
following either the profile name, or by themselves.
.PP
When the
.B -f
option is specified,
.B tcapconf
opens the configuration file,
.IR FILENAME ,
and reads the entries line by line.  Each entry is independent of other entries.  For each entry of
.I type
.BR tcap ,
.BR tcapconf
performs the following actions:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The utility opens the device specified in the
.I device
field (typically,
.BR /dev/tcap_as )
using the
.BR open (2s)
system call.  The utility then pushes the modules specified in the
.I modules
field (typically null) using the
.IR I_PUSH (7)
input-output control.
.IP 2.
The utility configures the signalling link using signalling link input-output controls in accordance
with the
.IR profile ", " sdt-profile " and " sdl-profile
values, using
.BR sli_ioctl (4),
.BR sdti_ioctl (4)
and
.BR sdli_ioctl (4)
input-output controls.
(Note that TCAP is incapable of providing the signalling link protocol values at the SG side of the
connection to the ASP side.)
.IP 3.
The utility attaches the signalling link using the concatenation of the Signalling Data Link
Identifier,
.IR sdli ,
and the Signalling Data Terminal Identifier,
.IR sdti ,
as a Physical Point of Attachment,
.IR lmi_ppa ,
in a
.BR LMI_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive.
.IP 4.
The utility links the resulting signalling link Stream under the SL-MUx multiplexing driver using
the
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control and closes the file descriptor for the Stream.
.IP 5.
The utility uses the SL-MUX specific input-output controls to assign the
.IR clei ", " global-ppa " and " type
values to the linked signalling link.  Streams opened on the SL-MUX driver can then attach to this
Signalling Link using the global TEI or AOID for the signalling link.
.PP
Once the
.B tcapconf
utility has linked and configured all of the signalling link Streams specified on the command line,
or in the configuration file, it watches the configuration file for changes and effects those
changes when they occur.  Changes are effected by linking additional signalling links or unlinking
existing signalling links to alter the configuration of the SL-MUX to match that of the altered
configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SIGNALS
.PP
.TP
.RI { SIGHUP }
This signal causes the
.B tcapconf
utility to reread the configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1) indicates that an
error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message is printed on
.IR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
options suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B tcapconf
has not known bugs.
Report problems to
.RI < bugs@openss7.org >.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tcap (4),
.BR sl-mux (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B tcapconf
is an OpenSS7-specific configuration command.  Because this command is used at startup and is
transparent to the SL-User opening SL streams, compatibility is not an issue.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Configuration is not subject to standardization.
The utility conforms to OpenSS7 project specifications, coding and options standards.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B tcapconf
configuration utility was first released in sigtran 0.9.2.2.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
