'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: test-sl.8.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-29 07:10:33 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 07:10:33 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: test-sl.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-29 07:10:33  brian
.\" - updating headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/09/07 07:04:06  brian
.\" - added manual page for test-sl program
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TEST-SL 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B test-sl
\- a signalling link test program for the x400p(4) STREAMS driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBtest-sl\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-b\fR \fICARD\fR \fB-s\fR \fISPAN\fR \fB-c\fR \fICHAN\fR
.PD 0
.HP
\fBtest-sl\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP
\fBtest-sl\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP
\fBtest-sl\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B test-sl
is a signalling link test program for the
.BR x400p (4)
driver.  Its purpose is to provide the ability to perform manual testing on signalling links without
linking the signalling link under the
.BR mtp (4)
multipelxing driver.
.PP
When executed successfully,
.B test-sl
opens a signalling link Stream, attaches it to the specified PPA (Physical Point of Attachement) and
activates the SS7 link.  If the activation fails, statistics are printed and then immediate restoration
is attempted.  Once the SS7 link reaches the in-service state,
.B test-sl
responds to various mangement messges as follows:
.TP
.I Signalling Link Test Message (SLTM)
.B test-sl
responds to signalling link test messages by sending a signalling link test acknowledgement.
However, the STLA is only sent if the SLTM contains the appropriate signalling link code per the
.B --slc
option.  The SLTA is identical the received SLTM with the exception that the point codes are
reversed and the H1 signal is 2 instead of 1.
This mimics MTP with respect to the response to signalling link test messages.
.TP
.I Special Signalling Link Test Message (SSLTM)
.B test-sl
responds to special signalling link test messages by sending a special signalling link test acknowledgement.
However, the SSTLA is only sent if the SSLTM contains the appropriate signalling link code per the
.B --slc
option.  The SSLTA is identical the received SSLTM with the exception that the point codes are
reversed and the H1 signal is 2 instead of 1.
This mimics MTP with respect to the response to special signalling link test messages.
.TP
.I Change Back Declaration (CBD)
.B test-sl
responds to all changeback declarations with a changeback acknowledgement.  The CBA message response
is identical to the CBD except that the point codes are reversed and signal H1 is 6 instead of 5.
This mimics MTP with respect to the response to changeback declaration messages.
.TP
.I Changeover Order (COO)
.B test-sl
responds to all changeover orders with an emergency changeover acknowledgement.  The ECA message
response is identical to the COO, except that the point codes are reversed and the FSNC value is not
included in the ECA response.  The H0-H1 codes for the ECA is x-X instead of Y-Y.
This mimics MTP with respect to the response to changeover order messages.
.TP
.I Emergency Changeover Order (ECO)
.B test-sl
response to all emergency changeover orders with an emergency changeover acknowledgement.  The ECO
message response is identical to the ECO, except that the point codes are reversed and the H1 signal
is X instead of Y.
This mimics MTP with respect to the response to emergency changeover order messages.
.TP
.I Traffic Restart Allowed (TRA)
.B test-sl
response to a traffic restart allowed message is to send a traffic restart allowed message.  The
send TRA message is identical to the received TRA message, with the exception that the send TRA
message contains reversed signlling point codes.
This mimics MTP with respect to the response to transfer allowed messages.
.PP
With these functions, the
.B test-sl
program effectivley mimics the presence of an MTP above the signalling links.
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
Whenever
.B test-sl
receives a message on an in-service signalling link, it prints a hex dump of that message to
.IR stdout .
Whenever
.B test-sl
responds with a message on an in-service signalling link, it prints a hex dump of that message to
.IR stdout .
In addition, the signalling point codes associated with the local and remote signalling points (from
the point of view of the indivudual message exchagnge) is printed.
.B test-sl
continues to print and respond to messages continuously, util the program is terminated.
.PP
An example of the output format of the
.B test-sl
program is given below under
.RI \(lq EXAMPLES .\(rq
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
An additional invocation of the
.B test-sl
program is required for each signalling link tested.  So, for example, if 2 signalling links within
a A-Link Link Set are to be tested,
.B test-sl
must be executed once for each of the two signalling links.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B test-sl
options fall into several categories as detailed in the subsections below.  If
.B test-sl
is executed without any options, it print a usage report and exit with a non-zero status.
.SS Command Options
.PP
These command options determine whether the link is initiated or whether an informative function is
performed instead.  If none of these ocmmand options are specified, then it is assumed that link
initiation is requested.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-?\fR, \fB--?\fR
When this option is encountered,
print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered,
print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered,
print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.SS General Options
.PP
The following options are applicable to all command options.  For other than link initiation command
options, these general options must appear ahead of the command option.
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Specifies that the caller is interested only in the return code and error diagnostics and that
normal output should be suppressed.
The default verbosity level if this option is not specified is
.BR 1 .
This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=0 .
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fILEVEL\fR]
Increases or sets the verbosity level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the verbosity level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the verbosity level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.
The default verbosity level if this option is not specified is
.BR 1 .
For example,
.B -vvvv
is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=5 .
.SS Link Intiation Options
.PP
The following options are only applicable link intiation is in effect.  That is, these options are
only effective if link initiation is being executed and are used to modify the manner in which link
initiation is performed.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--device\fR \fIDEVICE\fR
Specifies the device name to open for the tests.  The default device name if
.I DEVICE
is not specified is
.BR /dev/streams/clone/x400p-sl .
.TP
\fB-b\fR, \fB--board\fR \fIBOARD\fR
Specifies the driver board number on which the signalling link is to be activated.  Boards (or
cards) are numbered by the driver beginning with 1 and are specified as 1, 2, etc.
If the board number is not specified, the default board is board 1.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--span\fR \fISPAN\fR
Specifies span number on the board for which the signalling link is to be activated.  Spans are
numbered by the driver beginning with 1 and are specified as 1, 2, 3, or 4.
if the span number is not specified, the default span number is 1.
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--channel\fR \fICHAN\fR
Specifies the channel number in the span for which the signalling links is to be activated.
Channels are numbered by the driver beginning with 1 and are specified as 1, 2, ..., 24 for T1 or J1
and 1, 2, ..., 31 for E1.  A channel number of zero (0) specifies that the link is to be activated
as a high-speed link using the entire E1, T1, J1.
If the channel number is not specified, the default channel number is 16. (Channel 16 is the
default signalling channel for E1 operation.  T1 and J1 do not have a default signalling channel,
so 16 is assumed for T1 and J1 as well.)
.TP
\fB--flags\fR \fIFLAGS\fR
Specifies the number of flags to place between frames.  \fIFLAGS\fP is a number greater than zero 0
and is interpreted as follows:
.sp
.RS
.IP 0\ \(em \w'00\ \(em'u
One flag between frames.
.PD 0
.IP 1\ \(em
Shared flag between frames.
.IP 2\ \(em
Two flags between frames.
.IP 3\ \(em
Three flags between frames.
.PD
.RE
.TP
\fB--t1\fR, \fB--e1\fR, \fB--j1\fR
Specifies the group mode for the span.  This also has the effect of resetting all other options to
their default values for the mode.
.TP
\fB--crc4\fR, \fB--crc5\fR, \fB--crc6\fR
Specifies which CRC calculation to use on the span.  CRC4 and CRC5 are applicable to E1.  CRC6 is
applicable to T1.  CRC6J is applicable to J1.
.TP
\fB--hdb3\fR, \fB--ami\fR, \fB--b8zs\fR
Specifies which coding to use on the span.  HDB3 is applicable to E1 only.  AMI and B8ZS is
applicable to T1 and J1.
.TP
\fB--cas\fR, \fB--ccs\fR, \fB--sf\fR, \fB--esf\fR
Specifies the framing to use on the span.  CAS and CCS are applicable to E1.  SF (D4) and ESF are
applicable to T1 and J1.
.TP
\fB--ds0\fR, \fB--ds0a\fR
Specifies whether DS0 or DS0A channel format is to be used.  DS0A is really only applicable to T1
and J1, but can be set for E1 if really desired.
.TP
\fB--ansi\fR, \fB--itut\fR
Specifies whether ANSI or ITU-T protocol variants are to be used for the signalling link.  The has
the effect of setting timer values to their defaults for ANSI or ITU-T operation.  The ITU protocol
variant is SS7_PVAR_ITUT_00 and the ANSI protocol variant is SS7_PVAR_ANSI_96.
.TP
\fB--slc\fR \fISLC\fR
Specifies the signalling link code for the signalling link.  This can be any integer value.  The
special value minus one,
.RB ( -1 ),
which is also  the default, means
.I any
signalling link code.  When set to a specific signalling link code (a number other than minus one
.RB ( -1 )),
.B test-sl
will only respond to SLTM and SSLTM messages for the specified signalling link code value.  Setting
.I SLC
to a value greater than the maximum SLC for the protocol (16 for ITU-T, 32 for ANSI), has the effect
of causing
.B test-sl
to not respond to any SLTM or SSLTM messages.  Setting
.I SLC
to minus one,
.RB ( -1 ),
has the affecto f causing
.B test-sl
to response to any SLTM or SSLTM message, regardless of the SLC value contained within the message.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When the
.B test-sl
command fails, it prints a diagnostic message to
.I stderr
and exits with a non-zero return code.
The following return codes are generated under the following conditions:
.IP 0 4
Execution was successful.
.IP 1
Execution failed due an error.
.IP 2
Execution failed due to an options or command line syntax error.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B test-sl
is intended for specialized manual testing of SS7 signalling links.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
In the following example,
.B test-sl
is started against the signalling link on X400P card 1, span 1 and channel 1:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#> test-sl -b 1 -s 1 -c 1 >testsl1.log </dev/null 2>&1 &
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The following example shows two
.B test-sl
program instances started, one on X400P PPA 1:1:1 and another on 1:2:1, both for DS0A operation:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#> test-sl -b 1 -s 1 -c 1 --ds0a >testsl1.log </dev/null 2>&1 &
#> test-sl -b 1 -s 2 -c 1 --ds0a >testsl2.log </dev/null 2>&1 &
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The following is an excerpt from testsl2.log in the above example:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
Thu Sep  6 22:40:36 2007
Got pdu.
Received:   b2 0a 6b 02 01 6b 02 00 11 f1 ff ee dd cc bb aa 99 88 77 66 55 44 33 22 11 
Responding: b2 01 6b 02 0a 6b 02 00 21 f1 ff ee dd cc bb aa 99 88 77 66 55 44 33 22 11 
DPC = 026b0a, OPC = 026b01

Thu Sep  6 22:41:36 2007
Got pdu.
Received:   b2 0a 6b 02 01 6b 02 00 11 f1 ff ee dd cc bb aa 99 88 77 66 55 44 33 22 11 
Responding: b2 01 6b 02 0a 6b 02 00 21 f1 ff ee dd cc bb aa 99 88 77 66 55 44 33 22 11 
DPC = 026b0a, OPC = 026b01

Thu Sep  6 22:42:36 2007
Got pdu.
Received:   b2 0a 6b 02 01 6b 02 00 11 f1 ff ee dd cc bb aa 99 88 77 66 55 44 33 22 11 
Responding: b2 01 6b 02 0a 6b 02 00 21 f1 ff ee dd cc bb aa 99 88 77 66 55 44 33 22 11 
DPC = 026b0a, OPC = 026b01

Thu Sep  6 22:43:36 2007
Got pdu.
Received:   b2 0a 6b 02 01 6b 02 00 11 f1 ff ee dd cc bb aa 99 88 77 66 55 44 33 22 11 
Responding: b2 01 6b 02 0a 6b 02 00 21 f1 ff ee dd cc bb aa 99 88 77 66 55 44 33 22 11 
DPC = 026b0a, OPC = 026b01

Thu Sep  6 22:44:36 2007
Got pdu.
Received:   b2 0a 6b 02 01 6b 02 00 11 f1 ff ee dd cc bb aa 99 88 77 66 55 44 33 22 11 
Responding: b2 01 6b 02 0a 6b 02 00 21 f1 ff ee dd cc bb aa 99 88 77 66 55 44 33 22 11 
DPC = 026b0a, OPC = 026b01
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
.BR x400p (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/test-sl
contains the
.B test-sl
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR x400p (4),
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Installation and Reference Manual" .
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B test-sl
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B test-sl
is an OpenSS7-specific utility.  It is compatible with the
.BR x400p (4)
driver and other drivers based on the
.BR sli (4),
.BR sdti (4)
and
.BR sdli (4)
interfaces an input output controls.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.B test-sl
is an OpenSS7-specific utility and is not subject to stnadardization.
.B test-sl
conforms to OpenSS7 coding practices.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B test-sl
is provided with the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
