'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: test-udpc.8.man,v 0.9.2.2 2005/06/29 08:12:42 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Unauthorized distribution or duplication is prohibited.
.\"
.\" This software and related documentation is protected by copyright and
.\" distributed under licenses restricting its use, copying, distribution
.\" and decompilation.  No part of this software or related documentation
.\" may be reproduced in any form by any means without the prior written
.\" authorization of the copyright holder, and licensors, if any.
.\"
.\" The recipient of this document, by its retention and use, warrants that
.\" the recipient will protect this information and keep it confidential,
.\" and will not disclose the information contained in this document
.\" without the written permission of its owner.
.\"
.\" The author reserves the right to revise this software and documentation
.\" for any reason, including but not limited to, conformity with standards
.\" promulgated by various agencies, utilization of advances in the state
.\" of the technical arts, or the reflection of changes in the design of any
.\" techniques, or procedures embodied, described, or referred to herein.
.\" The author is under no obligation to provide any feature listed herein.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/06/29 08:12:42 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: test-udpc.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2005/06/29 08:12:42  brian
.\" - corrections
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2005/06/29 08:07:40  brian
.\" - makefile and manual pages necessary to pass a check target
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so strss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH TEST-UDPC 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B test-udpc
\- test suite executable for M2PA(4) STREAMS module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBtest-udpc\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBtest-udpc\fR {\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR}
.HP 12
\fBtest-udpc\fR {\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR}
.HP 12
\fBtest-udpc\fR {\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B test-udpc
is a test suite executable for the
.BR M2PA (4)
.I STREAMS
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--fast\fR [\fISCALE\fR]
When this option is present, test cases are run faster by the integer scaling factor
.IR SCALE .
If
.I SCALE
is not provided, then the default scale factor is
.BR 50 .
This has the effect of scaling timers both in the implementation under test as well as in the test
suite.  If the scale factor,
.IR SCALE ,
is too large, test cases may fail that would otherwise pass.  This option is useful for long test
suite runs that would otherwise take an inordinate amount of time to execute.  Timers can be scaled
for development, diagnostic or regression testing, however, for full validation testing this option
should not be used.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--summary\fR
Print a test case summary with each test case result at the end of the test suite run.  The default
if this option is not present is to not print a summary.
.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB--onetest\fR [\fITESTCASE\fR]
Specifies a single test case to run.
.I TESTCASE
is the individual test case number.  This option may be repeated and is accumulative: that is, each
test case added with an occurence of this option will be added to the other test cases selected with
.B --onetest
or with
.BR --tests .
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--test\fR [\fIRANGE\fR]
Specifies a range of test cases to run.
.I RANGE
specifies the range of test cases and will match all test cases that have this string as an initial 
substring of the test case number.  If
.I RANGE
is not specified, all test cases are assumed.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--messages\fR
Indicates whether messages, in hexadecimal, should be included in the test case output.  This is
independent of any \fB--verbose\fR setting.
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Specifies that the caller is interested only in the return code and that normal output should be
suppressed.  This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=0 .
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fILEVEL\fR]
Increases or sets the verbosity level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the verbosity level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the verbosity level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.  For example,
.B -vvvvv
is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=5 .
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-?\fR, \fB--?\fR
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered, print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When
.B test-udpc
fails, it prints a diagnostic message to
.I stderr
and exits with a non-zero return code.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B test-udpc
is normally invoked from the @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ testsuite.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.BR udpc (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP /usr/libexec/@PACKAGE@/test-udpc
contains the
.B test-udpc
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR udpc (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B test-udpc
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B test-udpc
is provided with the \(lq@PACKAGE_TITLE@\(rq package.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
