'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: test-x400p-sdt.8.man,v 0.9.2.3 2006/04/05 09:43:24 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:43:24 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: test-x400p-sdt.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/04/05 09:43:24  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TEST-X400P-SDT 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B test-x400p-sdt
\- test suite executable for M2PA(4) STREAMS module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBtest-x400p-sdt\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBtest-x400p-sdt\fR {\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR}
.HP 12
\fBtest-x400p-sdt\fR {\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR}
.HP 12
\fBtest-x400p-sdt\fR {\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B test-x400p-sdt
is a test suite executable for the
.BR M2PA (4)
.I STREAMS
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--fast\fR [\fISCALE\fR]
When this option is present, test cases are run faster by the integer scaling factor
.IR SCALE .
If
.I SCALE
is not provided, then the default scale factor is
.BR 50 .
This has the effect of scaling timers both in the implementation under test as well as in the test
suite.  If the scale factor,
.IR SCALE ,
is too large, test cases may fail that would otherwise pass.  This option is useful for long test
suite runs that would otherwise take an inordinate amount of time to execute.  Timers can be scaled
for development, diagnostic or regression testing, however, for full validation testing this option
should not be used.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--summary\fR
Print a test case summary with each test case result at the end of the test suite run.  The default
if this option is not present is to not print a summary.
.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB--onetest\fR [\fITESTCASE\fR]
Specifies a single test case to run.
.I TESTCASE
is the individual test case number.  This option may be repeated and is accumulative: that is, each
test case added with an occurence of this option will be added to the other test cases selected with
.B --onetest
or with
.BR --tests .
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--test\fR [\fIRANGE\fR]
Specifies a range of test cases to run.
.I RANGE
specifies the range of test cases and will match all test cases that have this string as an initial 
substring of the test case number.  If
.I RANGE
is not specified, all test cases are assumed.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--messages\fR
Indicates whether messages, in hexadecimal, should be included in the test case output.  This is
independent of any \fB--verbose\fR setting.
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Specifies that the caller is interested only in the return code and that normal output should be
suppressed.  This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=0 .
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fILEVEL\fR]
Increases or sets the verbosity level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the verbosity level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the verbosity level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.  For example,
.B -vvvvv
is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=5 .
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-?\fR, \fB--?\fR
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered, print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When
.B test-x400p-sdt
fails, it prints a diagnostic message to
.I stderr
and exits with a non-zero return code.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B test-x400p-sdt
is normally invoked from the @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ testsuite.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.BR x400p-sdt (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP /usr/libexec/@PACKAGE@/test-x400p-sdt
contains the
.B test-x400p-sdt
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR x400p-sdt (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B test-x400p-sdt
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B test-x400p-sdt
is provided with the \(lq@PACKAGE_TITLE@\(rq package.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
