'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: test-x400p.8.man,v 0.9.2.7 2007/03/12 02:22:59 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/12 02:22:59 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: test-x400p.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2007/03/12 02:22:59  brian
.\" - updating tests
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2007/01/23 10:04:57  brian
.\" - updated manpage
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/12/27 16:36:03  brian
.\" - added slpmod module and fixups for make check target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/12/21 11:14:41  brian
.\" - documentation updates for release, and moved tali
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/04/05 09:43:24  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TEST-X400P 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B test-x400p
\- a test suite executable for x400p(4) STREAMS driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBtest-x400p\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
[{\fB-o\fR|\fB--onetest\fR} [\fITESTCASE\fR]]
[{\fB-t\fR|\fB--tests\fR} [\fIRANGE\fR]]
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBtest-x400p\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
{\fB-l\fR|\fB--list\fR} [\fIRANGE\fR]
.HP 12
\fBtest-x400p\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP 12
\fBtest-x400p\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP 12
\fBtest-x400p\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B test-x400p
is a test suite executable for the
.BR M2PA (4)
.I STREAMS
driver.
The purpose of the
.B test-x400p
test suite executable is to provide a means for development, diagnostic, regression and validation
testing of the
.BR x400p (4)
driver.
The
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package also provides an
.B autotest
based test suite that uses the
.B test-x400p
test case executable to invoke test cases.  This test suite can be used for development, diagnostic,
regression or validation testing.
See the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@ Installation and Reference Manual
for more information on how to invoke the
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B test-x400p
options fall into several categories as detailed in the subsections below.  If
.B test-x400p
is executed without any options, it will execute all available test cases and report the progress
and results of each test case.
.SS Command Options
.PP
These command options determine whether test cases are run or whether an informative function is
performed instead.  If none of these command options are specified, then it is assumed that all test
cases are to be executed.  Options
.BR --list ", " --help ", " --version " and " --copying
will override the
.BR --onetest " and " --tests
options.
.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB--onetest\fR [\fITESTCASE\fR]
Specifies a single test case to run.
.I TESTCASE
is the individual test case number.  This option may be repeated and is accumulative: that is, each
test case added with an occurrence of this option will be added to the other test cases selected with
.B --onetest
or with
.BR --tests .
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--tests\fR [\fIRANGE\fR]
Specifies a range of test cases to run.
.I RANGE
specifies the range of test cases and will match all test cases that have this string as an initial
substring of the test case number.  If
.I RANGE
is not specified, then all test cases are selected.
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--list\fR [\fIRANGE\fR]
When this option is encountered,
print a list of test cases to
.I stdout
and exit.
When a
.I RANGE
of test cases is specified, only the specified range of tests will be listed.  When a
.I RANGE
is not specified, all test cases will be listed.
When used in combination with
.B --verbose
this option will print more or less information about each test case.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-?\fR, \fB--?\fR
When this option is encountered,
print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered,
print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered,
print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.SS General Options
.PP
The following options are applicable to all command options.  For other than test case command
options, these general options must appear ahead of the command option.
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Specifies that the caller is interested only in the return code and error diagnostics and that
normal output should be suppressed.
The default verbosity level if this option is not specified is
.BR 1 .
This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=0 .
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fILEVEL\fR]
Increases or sets the verbosity level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the verbosity level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the verbosity level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.
The default verbosity level if this option is not specified is
.BR 1 .
For example,
.B -vvvv
is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=5 .
.SS Test Case Options
.PP
The following options are only applicable if a test case command option is in effect.
That is, these options are only effective if test cases are being executed and are used to modify
the manner in which test cases are executed or test case results reported.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--device\fR \fIDEVICE\fR
Specifies the device name to open for the tests.
.TP
\fB-w\fR, \fB--wait\fR
Specifies that the client or server is to wait indefinitely.  Normally a test
case guard timer is started (40 seconds) that will fire and cause the test
case to fail if the test cases waits indefinitely for an event to start or
continue.  This option suppresses the test cause guard timer and allows the 
client or server to wait indefinitely from some event to occur.  This is
paricularly useful when one side of the test case (client or server) is being
run manually.
.TP
\fB-e\fR, \fB--exit\fR
Specifies that the first test case run that is not successful will cause all remaining test cases to
be skipped and the return code will reflect the result of the failed test case.
This option is useful in conjunction with option
.B --onetest
in that if a single test is being run, the return code will reflect the result of the test case.
This is used by the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
test suite to run individual tests under
.BR autotest .
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--again\fR
Specifies that the selected test cases are to be repeated in verbose mode if
they fail in non-verbose mode.  This option is useful for use with autotest
test suites.
.TP
\fB-R\fR, \fB--repeat\fR
Repeat the selected test cases on success or failure.  This option causes the
executable to loop through the selected test cases, one after the other,
regardless of whether an individual test case succeeds or fails.
This option is useful in conjunction with \fB--onetest\fR and \fB--client\fR
or \fB--server\fR when the other end of the test is being executed manually.
.TP
\fB-r\fR, \fB--repeat-fail\fR
Repeat the selected test cases on failure.  This option caues the executable
to loop individual test cases when they fail, but allows the test sequence to
continue when an individual test case succeeds.
This option is useful in conjunction with \fB--onetest\fR and \fB--client\fR
or \fB--server\fR when the other end of the test is being executed manually.
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--fast\fR [\fISCALE\fR]
When this option is present, test cases are run faster by the integer scaling factor
.IR SCALE .
If
.I SCALE
is not provided, then the default scale factor is
.BR 50 .
This has the effect of scaling timers both in the implementation under test as well as in the test
suite.  If the scale factor,
.IR SCALE ,
is too large, test cases may fail that would otherwise pass.  This option is useful for long test
suite runs that would otherwise take an inordinate amount of time to execute.  Timers can be scaled
for development, diagnostic or regression testing, however, for full validation testing this option
should not be used.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--summary\fR
Print a test case summary with each test case result at the end of the test suite run.  The default
if this option is not present is to not print a summary.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--messages\fR
Indicates whether messages, in hexadecimal, should be included in the test case output.  This is
independent of any
.B --verbose
setting.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When
.B test-x400p
fails, it prints a diagnostic message to
.I stderr
and exits with a non-zero return code.
The following return codes are generated under the following conditions:
.IP 0 4
Execution was successful.
One test case was selected for execution and that test case succeeded or was not applicable (i.e.
unsupported).
This exit code is interpreted by
.B autotest
as a
.I PASS
condition.
.IP 1
One test case was selected for execution and that test case failed or was inconclusive.
More than one test case was selected and abort on failure was specified using the
.B --exit
option, and a test case in the selected test cases failed or was inconclusive.
This exit code is interpreted by
.B autotest
as a
.IR FAIL " or " XFAIL
condition.
.IP 2
An invalid parameter was provided.
Test case execution was specified with options
.BR --onetest " or " --tests ,
or listing of test cases was specified with option
.BR --list ,
but no test case was selected by these options.
More than one test case was selected for execution and a check of the test suite setup failed.
This exit code is interpreted by
.B autotest
as a
.IR FAIL " or " XFAIL
condition.
.IP 77
One test case was selected for execution and that test case was skipped.
This exit code is interpreted by
.B autotest
as a
.I SKIPPED
condition.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B test-x400p
is normally invoked from the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.TP
\f(CB\)test-x400p\f(CR\) --list 0.1\fR
Generates a list of all test cases
provided by the
.B test-x400p
executable
with numbers starting with the initial substring of
.BR 0.1 .
.TP
\f(CB\)test-x400p\f(CR\) -vv --list\fR
Generates a verbose listing of all test cases
provided by the
.B test-x400p
executable.
.TP
\f(CB\)test-x400p\f(CR\) --verbose=5 --onetest 0.1\fR
Verbosely executes test case
.BR 0.1 ,
and provides a diagnostic return code.
.TP
\f(CB\)test-x400p\f(CR\) --fast --quiet --exit\fR
Executes all test cases with a timer scaling factor of
.B 50
with normal output suppressed and exiting on the first failed or inconclusive test case result.
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.BR x400p (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/libexec/@PACKAGE@/test-x400p
contains the
.B test-x400p
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR x400p (4),
.IR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Installation and Reference Manual" .
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B test-x400p
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B test-x400p
test suite, when run using
.BR autotest ,
is compatible with the POSIX 1003.3 conformance test methodology, with the following mapping of test
results:
.PP
.RS
.TS
tab(:);
lb|lb|lb
l|l|l.
_
POSIX 1003.3:test-x400p:autotest
_
PASS:PASS(0):PASS
FAIL:FAIL(1):FAIL
XFAIL:FAIL(1):XFAIL
UNSUPPORTED:NOT APPLICABLE(0):PASS
UNRESOLVED:INCONCLUSIVE(1):FAIL or XFAIL
UNTESTED:SKIPPED(77):SKIPPED
_
.TE
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.B test-x400p
tests conformance of the
.BR x400p (4)
driver to the specifications listed on the
.BR x400p (4)
manual page.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B test-x400p
is provided with the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
