'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=100
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: x400pconf.8.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/01/21 20:20:09 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/01/21 20:20:09 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: x400pconf.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/01/21 20:20:09  brian
.\" - added documetation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH X400PCONF 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.SH NAME
.B x400pconf
\- X400P driver configuration utility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 12
\fBx400pconf\fP [\fIoptions\fR] [{\fB-g\fR|\fB--get\fR} [\fICLEI\fR|\fIPPA\fR] \fI...\fR]
.PD 0
.HP
\fBx400pconf\fP [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-r\fR|\fB--remove\fR} [\fICLEI\fR|\fIPPA\fR] \fI...\fR
.HP
\fBx400pconf\fP [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-a\fR|\fB--add\fR} \fICLEI\fR \fIPPA\fR \fIarguments\fR
.HP
\fBx400pconf\fP [\fIoptions\fR] {\fB-f\fR|\fB--file\fR} [\fIFILENAME\fR]
.HP
\fBx400pconf\fP {\fB-h\fP|\fB--help\fP}
.HP
\fBx400pconf\fP {\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP}
.HP
\fBx400pconf\fP {\fB-C\fP|\fB--copying\fP}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B x400pconf
is a configuration utility for the X400P-SS7 driver,
.BR x400p-ss7 (4),
and the SL-MUX multiplexing driver,
.BR sl-mux (4).
Its purpose is to open Signalling Link streams on the X400P-SS7 driver, attach them to specific
PPAs, configure the link, and link the SL streams under the SL-MUX multiplexing driver, configure
the lower SL stream, and then wait in the background watching for updates for the configuration file
and apply updates as they occur.
.PP
The
.B x400pconf
is intended to be run at system startup from a System V initialization script.  Once the
configuration of the X400P-SS7 and SL-MUX drivers is complete, applications programs can open,
attach, enable and use Signalling Link streams opened on the driver.
.PP
The purpose of the SL-MUX driver is to provide a unified interface for accessing signalling links of
a number of forms and from a number of various drivers.  Signalling links could correspond to device
drivers, or could be M2UA signalling links or other implementations.  Each type of signalling link
requires some additional configuration before they can be used and will be linked under the SL-MUX
by a separate configuration utility.  The
.B x400pconf
utility is the utility used for the X400P-SS7 driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The
.B x400pconf
utility accepts the following command-line options:
.SS "Command Options"
.PP
On of the following mutually exclusive command options must be specified.  If no command options are
specified,
.B x400pconf
will act as though the
.B -g
option was specified and print the configuration for all X400P-SS7 PPAs.
.TP
[{\fB-g\fR|\fB--get\fR} [\fICLEI\fR|\fIPPA\fR] \fI...\fR]
Get and display the configuration information associated with a specific set of CLEI or PPA, or get
and display information for all PPAs (if no arguments are specified).  The information is displayed
in the same format as contained in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.  This option can be used to obtain information about specific X400P-SS7
signalling links, as well as providing the ability to regenerate the
.B x400p
entries in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.
.RS
.PP
Arguments consist of a whitespace separated list of zero or more of the following arguments:
.TP
.I CLEI
A Common Language Equipment Identifier (CLEI) specifying a signalling link for which to display
information.
.TP
.I PPA
A global Physical Point of Appearance (PPA) specifying a signalling link for which to display
information.
.PP
If no arguments are supplied, the
.B x400pconf
utility will display information for all signalling links of type
.BR x400p .
.RE
.TP
{\fB-r\fR|\fB--remove\fR} [\fICLEI\fR|\fIPPA\fR] \fI...\fR
Remove signalling links from the SL-MUX multiplexer for a specific set of CLEI or PPA, or remove
signalling links for all PPAs (if no argument are specified).  This option can be used by
configuration scripts to remove specific X400P-SS7 signalling links from the SL-MUX driver.
.RS
.PP
Arguments consist of a whitespace separated list of zero or more of the following arguments:
.TP
.I CLEI
A Common Language Equipment Identifier (CLEI) specifying a signalling link to remove.
.TP
.I PPA
A global Physical Point of Appearance (PPA) specifying a signalling link to remove.
.RE
.PP
If no arguments are supplied, the
.B x400pconf
utility will remove all signalling links of type
.BR x400p .
.TP
{\fB-a\fR|\fB--add\fR} \fICLEI\fR \fIPPA\fR \fIarguments\fR \fI...\fR
Add signalling links to the SL-MUX multiplexer for a specific signalling link.  The format of the
arguments are the same as for the
.B sl
entry in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.  This option can be used by configuration scripts to add specific X400P-SS7
signalling links to the SL-MUX driver.
.RS
.PP
Arguments consist of the following fields separated by whitespace:
.TP
.I clei
The Common Language Equipment Identifier (CLEI) to associate with the added signalling link.
.TP
.I global-ppa
The global Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) to associate with the added signalling link.
.TP
.I profile
Specifies the name of the signalling link profile to use, or the special value,
.BR default ,
specifying the default signalling link profile for the signalling link.  The named profile, if other
than
.BR default ,
must exist in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.
.TP
.I device-type
Always
.BR x400p .
.TP
.I device
Specifies the device to open.  Typically
.RB \(lq /dev/x400p-sl \(rq
for the X400P-SS7 driver.
.TP
.I modules
Specifies the modues to push.  Typicall
null
.RB ( - ).
.TP
.I card
Specifies the logical card number associated with the signalling link.
.TP
.I span
Specifies the logical span number associated with the signalling link.
.TP
.I slot
Specifies the logical time slot number associated with the signalling link.
.TP
.I sdt-profile
Specifies the signalling data terminal profile for the signalling link.  The signalling data
terminal profile must exist in the
.BR slconf (5)
file, or be the special value,
.RB \(lq default \(rq,
indicating that the default values for the signalling link will be accepted.
.TP
.I sdl-profile
Specifies the signalling data link profile for the signalling link.  The signalling data
link profile must exist in the
.BR slconf (5)
file, or be the special value,
.RB \(lq default \(rq,
indicating that the default values for the signalling link will be accepted.
.RE
.TP
{\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR|\fB-?\fR|\fB--?\fR}
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
{\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
{\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
When this option is encountered, print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
{\fB-e\fR|\fB--device\fR} \fIDEVNAME\fR
Specifies the device name,
.IR DEVNAME ,
to open to obtain a Stream on the SL-MUX multiplexing driver.  The default value is
.RB \(lq /dev/sl-mux .\(rq
.TP
{\fB-d\fR|\fB--daemon\fR}
Specifies that the
.B x400pconf
utility is to place itself in the background after reading the configuration file and monitor the
configuration file for subsequent changes.
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
The file format is as described in
.BR slconf (5),
with the additional fields defined for devices of type
.BR x400p .
Signalling link specification line entries in the file consist of the following fields:
.PP
.B sl
.RI < clei >
.RI < global-ppa >
.RI < profile >
.RI < device-type >
.RI < device >
.RI < modules >
.RI < card >
.RI < span >
.RI < slot >
.RI < sdt-profile >
.RI < sdl-profile >
.PP
Where,
.TP
.B sl
is the selector indicating that this is a signalling link definition entry.
.TP
.I clei
is a Common Language Equipment Identifier (CLEI) to be associated with this signalling link.
The is the CLEI that can be used by users opening the SL-MUX driver to attach to this signalling
link.
.TP
.I global-ppa
is a global Physical Point of Appearance (PPA) to be associated with this signalling link.
The is the PPA that can be used by users opening the SL-MUX driver to attach to this signalling
link.
.TP
.I profile
is a signalling link protocol parameters profile used to configure this signalling link.  The
profile must either be the default entry,
.BR default ,
or must be defined in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.
It is also possible to place the parameter definitions in-line, enclosed in braces
.RB ( {} ).
.TP
.I device-type
Always
.BR x400p .
.TP
.I device
is the device to open to create a signalling link Stream.
For the X400P-SS7 driver, the device is normally
.RB \(lq /dev/x400p-ss7 \(rq.
At a later date this might be the
.RB \(lq /dev/x400p-ch \(rq
device.
.TP
.I modules
is the modules to push over the open device Stream necessary to create a signalling link Stream
supporting the Signalling Link Interface (SLI),
.BR sli (7).
This field is a comma-separated list of module names, with no intervening whitespace.  Modules are
pushed in the order in which they appear in the list.
For the X400P-SS7 driver, the module is normally null as indicated by a single dash,
.RB ` - '.
At a later point this might be the
.RB \(lq daed \(rq
and
.RB \(lq sl \(rq
modules.
.TP
.I card
is the logical card number of the X400P-SS7 card to which the signalling link belongs.  Logical card
numbers start at zero
.RB ( 0 )
and span through
.IR (n-1) ,
where
.I n
is the number of physical cards present in the system.
.TP
.I span
is the logical span number on the X400P-SS7 card.  Logical spans numbers start at one
.RB ( 1 )
and span through the number of spans supported by the card (i.e. four).
.TP
.I slot
is the logical time slot number on the X400P-SS7 card.  Logical time slot zero
.RB ( 0 )
refers to the entire span.  Logical time slots one
through twenty-four
.RB ( 1 - 24 )
refer to individual time slots in a T1 or J1 span.  Logical time slots one
through thirty-one
.RB ( 1 - 31 )
refer to individual time slots in an E1 span.
.TP
.I sdt-profile
is signalling data terminal parameters profile used to configure the signalling data terminal.  The
profile must either be the default entry,
.BR default ,
or must be defined in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.
It is also possible to place the parameter definitions in-line, enclosed in braces
.RB ( {} ).
.TP
.I sdl-profile
is signalling data link parameters profile used to configure the signalling data link.  The
profile must either be the default entry,
.BR default ,
or must be defined in the
.BR slconf (5)
configuration file.
It is also possible to place the parameter definitions in-line, enclosed in braces
.RB ( {} ).
.PP
When the
.B -f
option is specified,
.B x400pconf
opens the configuration file,
.IR FILENAME ,
and reads the entries line by line.  Each entry is independent of other entries.  For each entry of
.I device-type
.BR x400p ,
.BR x400pconf
performs the following actions:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The utility opens the device specified in the
.I device
field (typically,
.BR /dev/x400p-sl )
using the
.BR open (2s)
system call.
The utility then pushes the modules specified in the
.I modules
field (typically
null)
using the
.IR I_PUSH (7)
input-output control.
.IP 2.
The utility configures the signalling link using signalling link input-output controls in accordance
with the
.IR profile ", " sdt-profile " and " sdl-profile
values, using
.BR sli_ioctl (4),
.BR sdti_ioctl (4)
and
.BR sdli_ioctl (4)
intput-output controls.
.IP 2.
If the
.I local-ppa
field is other than a single dash, the utility interprets the field as an integer number and uses
the integer number in an
.BR LMI_ATTACH_REQ (7)
request to attach the opened Stream to the specific signalling link.
.IP 3.
The utility configures the signalling link using signalling link input-output controls described in
.BR sli_ioctl (4),
to configure the signalling link.
.IP 4.
The utility links the resulting signalling link Stream under the SL-MUX multiplexing driver using
the
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control and closes the file descriptor for the Stream.
.IP 5.
The utility uses SL-MUX specific input-output controls to assign the
.IR clei ", " global-ppa " and " device-type
values to the linked signalling link.  Streams opened on the SL-MUX driver can then attach to this
signalling link using the global PPA or the CLEI for the signalling link.
.PP
Once the
.B x400pconf
utility has linked and configured all of the signalling link Streams specified on the command line,
or in the configuration file, it watches the configuration file for changes and effects those
changes when they occur.  Changes are effected by linking additional signalling links or unlinking
existing signalling links to alter the configuration of the SL-MUX to match that of the altered
configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH SIGNALS
.PP
.TP
.RI { SIGHUP }
This signal causes the
.B x400pconf
utility to reread the configuration file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1) indicates that an
error occured and a diagnostic messages is printed to
.IR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message is printed on
.IR stderr .
.PP
If
.I stderr
has already been redirected to a log file, the diagnostic message will appear in the log file.
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses printing of diagnostic messages to
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.I /dev/x400p-sl
The
.BR x400p_sl (4)
signalling link device.
.TP
.I /dev/sl
The
.BR sl-mux (4)
signalling link device.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.I /usr/sbin/x400pconf
Contains the
.BR x400pconf
command.
.TP
.I /etc/sysconfig/ss7/slconf.conf
The default configuration file.
.TP
.I /var/log/messages
The system log file.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR x400p_sl (4),
.BR slconf (5),
.BR slconfd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B x400pconf
has no known bugs.  Report problems to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR x400pconf
is backward compatible with previous versions of the utility.  The file format has not changed over
the various version of the utility.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SS7 configuration is not subject to standardization.  The
.BR x400pconf
utility conforms to the OpenSS7 specifications:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
.IR "Local Managment Interface (LMI)" ,
.BR lmi (7),
Revision
.PD 0
.BR 0.9.2 .
.IP \(bu
.IR "Signalling Data Link Interface (SDLI)" ,
.BR sdli (7),
Revision
.BR 0.9.2 .
.IP \(bu
.IR "Signalling Data Terminal Interface (SDTI)" ,
.BR sdti (7),
Revision
.BR 0.9.2 .
.IP \(bu
.IR "Signalling Link Interface (SLI)" ,
.BR sli (7),
Revision
.BR 0.9.2 .
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B x400pconf
utility was new for the OpenSS7
.B strss7-0.9a.6
package release.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
