'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strss7.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH X400CONFIG 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.SH NAME
.B x400config
\- X400 configuration utility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
\fBx400config\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B x400config
is an X400P configuration program for the
.BR x400p (4)
.I STREAMS
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
(none).
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.\"
.SS "Command Options"
.PP
The following command options determine the mode of the command and are mutually exclusive options:
.PP
The following options are coding standard options for the OpenSS7 project that are supported by all
command line utilities:
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR, \fB-?\fR, \fB--?\fR
When this option is encountered, print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered, print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered, print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
.SS "General Options"
.PP
The following are general options controlling the output of the utility and can be applied to the
command in many mode:
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Specifies that the caller is interested only in the return code and that normal output should be
suppressed.  This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=0 .
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR [\fILEVEL\fR]
Increases or sets the verbosity level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the verbosity level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the verbosity level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.  For example,
.B -vvvvv
is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=5 .
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
When
.B x400config
fails, it prints a diagnostic message to
.I stderr
and exits with a non-zero return code.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B x400config
is normally invoked by @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@ configuration scripts.
.\"
.\"
.SH DRIVERS
.PP
.BR x400p (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/sbin/x400config
contains the
.B x400config
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR x400p (4),
.BR test-x400p (8),
.BR sli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B x400config
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B x400config
is compatible with previous releases of the utility.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
Signalling Link configuration is not subject to standardization.
.B x400config
conforms to the Signalling Link Interface specification
.BR sli (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B x400config
is provided with the \(lq@PACKAGE_TITLE@\(rq package.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
