'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=100
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: iua-as.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/03/14 00:54:27 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/14 00:54:27 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: iua-as.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/03/14 00:54:27  brian
.\" - manpages for check maintenance target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/01/21 20:20:06  brian
.\" - added documetation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH IUA-AS 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B iua-as
\- ISDN Q.921 User Adaptation Layer (IUA) Application Server (AS)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/lmi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/dlpi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/dlpi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/iua_ioctl.h>
.HP 12
\fBint \fIiua_stream\fB = open(\fB\(lq\fI/dev/iua-sg1\fB\(rq, O_RDWR);
.PD 0
.HP
\fBint \fIsctp_stream\fB = open(\fB\(lq\fI/dev/sctp_t\fB\(rq, O_RDWR);
.HP
\fBint \fImuxid\fB = ioctl(I_PLINK, (intptr_t) \fIsctp_stream\fB);
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The IUA-AS is a multiplexing driver that implements the ASP side of the IUA
.[
iuarfc
.]
protocol.
Streams opened on the upper multiplex provide the
.IR "Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)",
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7).
Streams linked under the lower multiplex provide the
.IR "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)",
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
for SCTP,
.BR sctp_t (4).
.\"
.SS Configuration
.PP
When the IUA-AS driver is configured, SCTP Streams are opened and linked under the multiplexing
driver.  Each SCTP stream represents an association between a local ASP (Application Server Process)
and a remote SG (Signalling Gateway).  Input-output controls are used to configure each lower
multiplex Stream.  Once a lower multiplex Stream is configured, the IUA-AS driver attempts to form
an SCTP association with the remote SG, and to bring IUA association to the ASP Up state.  Should
the association be dropped, the ASP-SG relation is moved to the ASP Down state and the IUA-AS driver
attempts to reconnect the association and bring it to the ASP Up state again and activate all active
interfaces.
.PP
Once configured, DL Streams can be opened on the upper multiplex.  These DL Streams are not
associated with an ASP-SG association until they are attached.  When the
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive is issued, the PPA contained in the request is composed of an SG identifier and an
Interface Identifier.  This information is sufficient for the IUA-AS driver to determine the
association for the interface.  When the
.BR DL_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive is issued, the assigned Interface Identifier is used to activate the interface with the
remote SG, if the interface has not already been activated with the remote SG.
.PP
After the link has been attached with the
.BR DL_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive, it can be linked beneath the DL-MUX multiplexing device driver and assigned a CLEI and
global PPA.
.PP
Configuration is performed using an IUA-AS driver configuration utility,
.BR iuaasconf (8).
This utility reads a configuration file used to define the objects necessary for configuration.  The
configuration file contains entries that define ASP-SG relationships as follows:
.TP
.I sgid
An integer number identifying the ASP-SG relation.
.I aspid
The ASPID that is used in communication with the SG.  This ASPID can be null (a single dash,
.RB ( - ))
indicating that no ASPID is to be used in communication with the SG.  This ASPID corresponds also to
the value zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.TP
.I streams
The number of SCTP streams that will be requested to the SG.
.TP
.I local-endpoint
The local endpoint address to which an SCTP association is bound to communicate with the remote SG.
This can take the form:
{\fIhostname\fR|\fIipaddress\fR}[\fB,\fR{\fIhostname\fR|\fIipaddress\fR}][\fB:\fR{\fIport\fR|\fIservice\fR}].
The special hostname consisting of a single star,
.RB ( * ),
can be used to indicate a wildcard address.  If the
.IR port " or " service
is not specified, then a dynamic port number will be allocated.  If the service is specified as
.BR iua ,
then the IUA registered (well-known) port number will be used.
.[
iuarfc
.]
.TP
.I remote-endpoint
The remote endpoint address to which an SCTP association wil connect to communicate with the remote
SG.  This can take the form:
{\fIhostname\fR|\fIipaddress\fR}[\fB,\fR{\fIhostname\fR|\fIipaddress\fR}][\fB:\fR{\fIport\fR|\fIservice\fR}].
If the
.IR port " or " service
is not specified, the IUA registered (well-known) port number will be used.
.[
iuarfc
.]
.TP
.I options
Contains a comma separated list of SG options, with no embedded whitespace.  The following options
are defined: (there are currently no SG options for IUA).
.PP
The configuration utility reads this configuration file and performs the following steps for each
entry in the file:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The utility opens an SCTP association by opening the
.B /dev/sctp_t
device, or the device specified by the
.B -s
option.
.IP 2.
The utility opens a stream on the IUA-AS driver using the
.B /dev/iua-as
device, or the device specified by the
.B -e
option, and links the SCTP stream under the IUA-AS multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
input-output control.  The utility can then close the file descriptor for the SCTP stream.
.IP 3.
The utility uses the
.B IUA_AS_IOCSCONFIG
input-output control to associate the lower multiplex SCTP stream with the ASP-SG relation.  The
input-output control takes the information provided in the configuration file line entry, and the
multiplexer identifier returned from the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
input-output control operation.  The IUA-AS driver, in response to the
.B IUA_AS_IOCSCONFIG
input-output control, completes the ASP-SG relation information as part of the lower multiplex
stream private structure.  The IUA-AS driver also binds and connects the SCTP association and
attempts to bring the ASP to the ASP Up state with the remote SG.
.IP 4.
Steps 1 through 3, above, are repeated for each entry in the configuration file.
.IP 5.
The utility can also open and attach data link streams and link them under the DL-MUX multiplexing
driver with a global PPA and CLEI.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The IAU-AS driver provider several input-output controls for configuring the driver as follows:
.\"
.SS IUA_AS_IOCSCONFIG
.PP
.\"
.SS IUA_AS_IOCGCONFIG
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B IUA-AS
driver only directly supports the ASP-side of the IUA protocol.  For the SG-side of the protocol,
see
.BR iua-sg (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The
.B IUA-AS
driver is implemented as a
.I STREAMS
multiplexing driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/iua-sg\fIn
The
.IR n 'th
SG device.
.TP
.B /dev/streams/iua-sg/\fIn
The
.IR n 'th
SG device.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.RB < ss7/lmi.h >
Header file that defines the
.BR lmi (7)
interface used by signalling link streams opened on the upper multiplex.
.TP
.RB < ss7/lmi_ioctl.h >
Header file that defines the
.BR lmi_ioctl (7)
input-output controls used by signalling link streams opened on the upper multiplex.
.TP
.RB < ss7/sli.h >
Header file that defines the
.BR sli (7)
interface used by signalling link streams opened on the upper multiplex.
.TP
.RB < ss7/sli_ioctl.h >
Header file that defines the
.BR sli_ioctl (7)
input-output controls used by signalling link streams opened on the upper multiplex.
.TP
.RB < sys/iua_ioctl.h >
Header file that defines the
.BR iua (4)
input-output controls used by control streams opened on the upper multiplex.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR iua (4),
.BR SIGTRAN (4),
.BR iua_ioctl (4),
.BR iua_as_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B iua-as
driver has no known bugs.  Report problems to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package has been tested with a wide array of production Linux distributions, kernels and target
architectures, and is considered production grade by The OpenSS7 Project.  At the time of release,
the
.B @PACKAGE@
package had no known bugs.  Problems can be reported to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
Please, however, use the included
.B send-pr
script for generating actionable problem reports.  Please see the file \(lqPROBLEMS\(rq in the
release for problem reporting guidelines.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B IUA-AS
is compatible with implementations based on
RFC 3331
.[
rfc3331
.]
and
ETSI TS 102 141,
.[
ts 102 141
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.B IUA-AS
driver supports integer and text Interface Identifiers.  Due to the nature of the Signalling Link
Interface that the driver presents, it does not support range Interface Identifiers.
.IP ""
ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
does not support text Interface Identifiers.  When the
.I version
is set to
.BR TS102141 ,
all text interface identifiers are ignored and treated as null.
.IP \(em
The
.B IUA-AS
driver supports dynamic registration of Link Keys.
.IP ""
ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
does not permit use of dynamic registration.  Applications using the
.B IUA-AS
driver in an ETSI TS 102 141 environment should not invoke the dynamic registration procedures and
should configure the SG for appropriate operation using input-output controls.  Setting a
.I version
of
.B TS102141
suppresses the ability to request dynamic registration and causes the driver to return
\(lqUnsupported Message Class\(rq to any RKMM class message received.  Because this also suppresses
text interface identifiers, all Keys specified must have a non-zero integer IID value.
.IP \(em
ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
does not support the broadcast AS traffic mode.  When
.I version
is set to
.BR TS102141 ,
the Broadcast traffic mode is treated as an unsupported value.
.IP \(em
ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
requires that a timer be set on the Establish Request and the request retransmitted if an Establish
Confirm or Release Indication MAUP message is not received before the timer expires.  The timer is
set to T1+T2+T3+T4 of Q.703.
.[
q703
.]
This behaviour is only occurs when
.I version
is set to
.BR TS102141 .
.IP \(em
ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
cannot support the
.B SL_LOCAL_PROCESSOR_OUTAGE_REQ
and
.B SL_LOCAL_PROCESSOR_RECOVERED_REQ
primitives.  These primitives generate an error when
.I version
is set to
.BR TS102141 .
.IP \(em
.B IUA-AS
supports, as an option, the ASP Extensions defined in ASPEXT.
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-aspext-04.txt
.]
See
.BR iua_as_ioctl (4)
for more information on enabling this extension.
.IP \(em
.B IUA-AS
supports, as an option, the SG Information extensions defined in SGINFO.
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-sginfo-05.txt
.]
See
.BR iua_as_ioctl (4)
for more information on enabling this extension.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "RFC 3331" ,
.[
rfc3331
.]
.IR "ETSI TS 102 141" ,
.[
ts 102 141
.]
.IR "ETSI TS 102 380" .
.[
ts 102 380
.]
.PP
Conformance to
.IR "ETSI TS 102 141"
.[
ts 102 141
.]
per tests specified by
.IR "ETSI TS 102 380" ,
.[
ts 102 380
.]
is validated using the
.BR test-iua_as (8)
test case executable and the package
.B autotest
test suite.
.PP
Conformance to
.IR "RFC 3331" ,
.[
rfc3331
.]
is validated using the
.BR test-iua (8)
test case executable and the package
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B IUA-AS
driver was intially released for sigtran 0.9.2.2.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
