'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: m2pa.4.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-29 01:52:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 01:52:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: m2pa.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-29 01:52:15  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/12/31 13:37:37  brian
.\" - documentation updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/12/21 11:00:57  brian
.\" - updated manual pages for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/17 11:55:36  brian
.\" - copied files into new packages from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/05 09:43:03  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M2PA 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B m2pa, m2pa_sl, m2pa_cd, m2pa_dl
\- SS7 MTP2 Peer-to-peer User Adaptation Layer (M2PA)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/lmi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/lmi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/sli.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/sli_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/m2pa_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " m2pa_stream " = open(" \(lq/dev/sctp_n\(rq ", " flags );
.HP
.IB retval " = ioctl(" \fRI_PUSH\fP ", " \fR\(lqm2pa\(rq\fP );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B M2PA
is an implementation of the SS7 MTP2 Peer-to-peer User Adaptation Layer (M2PA)
defined in RFC 4165.
.[
m2pa-rfc
.]
.B M2PA
provides the services of the
.BR sl (4)
over an IP network using Stream Control Transmission Protocol,
.BR sctp (4),
as defined in RFC 2960.
.[
rfc2960
.]
.PP
.B M2PA
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
pushable module.
The
.B m2pa
module is pushed over an
.BR sctp (4)
NPI stream using the
.IR I_PUSH (7)
command of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide transport of direct SL services
.[
q703
.]
.[
en 300 008-1
.]
.[
t1.111
.]
to
.BR M2PA .
Once pushed, the streams must be configured using
.BR lmi_ioctl (4)
and
.BR sli_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH MODULES
.PP
.TP
.I m2pa-sl
Provides a pushable module that can be pushed over an
.BR sctp_n (4)
Stream and presents the Signalling Link Interface (SLI),
.BR sli (7),
service interface at its upper boundary.
.TP
.IR m2pa-cd
Provides a pushable module that can be pushed over an
.BR sctp_n (4)
Stream and presents the Communications Device Interface (CDI),
.BR cdi (7),
service interface at its upper boundary.
.TP
.IR m2pa-dl
Provides a pushable module that can be pushed over an
.BR sctp_n (4)
Stream and presents the Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR dlpi (7),
service interface at its upper boundary.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.B M2PA
provides the following stream types that are directly compatible with the
stream types provided by
.BR sl (4).
.TP
.I /dev/m2pa-sl
This devices provides the
.B SL
protocol service interface using the SL-primitives of the Signalling Link
Interface described in
.BR sli (7).
This interface is suitable for use with other SS7 modules and drivers.
Because
.B m2pa_sl
is a pushable module and not a device driver, the
.I /dev/m2pa-sl
device is formed by specifying an
.BR autopush (8)
specification for the
.B m2pa_sl
module over an minor device number of a
.BR sctp_n (4)
Stream.
.TP
.I /dev/m2pa-cd
This devices provides the
.B CD
protocol service interface using the CD-primitives of the Communications Data
Interface, described in
.BR cdi (7).
This interface is suitable for use with other modules and drivers expecting a
.BR cdi (7)
interface.
Because
.B m2pa_cd
is a pushable module and not a device driver, the
.I /dev/m2pa-cd
device is formed by specifying an
.BR autopush (8)
specification for the
.B m2pa_cd
module over an minor device number of a
.BR sctp_n (4)
Stream.
.TP
.I /dev/m2pa-dl
This devices provides the
.B DL
protocol service interface using the DL-primitives of the Data Link Provider
Interface, described in
.BR dlpi (7).
This interface is suitable for use with other modules and drivers expecting a
.BR dlpi (7)
interface.
Because
.B m2pa_dl
is a pushable module and not a device driver, the
.I /dev/m2pa-dl
device is formed by specifying an
.BR autopush (8)
specification for the
.B m2pa_dl
module over an minor device number of a
.BR sctp_n (4)
Stream.
.PP
All devices are implemented as a device from the
.BR sctp_n (4)
driver, with an
.BR autopush (8)
specification pushing the appropriate
.B M2PA
module.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Other combinations are possible.  Modules can be pushed to convert between the
SLI, CDI and DLPI interfaces.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of management input-output controls using the
.BR ioctl (2)
system call on the
.IR m2pa_stream .
These management controls are documented in
.BR lmi_ioctl (4)
and
.BR sli_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <sys/lmi.h> ,
.BR <sys/lmi_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <sys/sli.h> ,
.BR <sys/sli_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <sys/cdi.h> ,
.BR <sys/dlpi.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sl (4),
.BR sctp (4),
.IR STREAMS (4),
.IR I_PUSH (7),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
.BR sli_ioctl (4),
.BR sctp_n (4),
.BR sli (7),
.BR cdi (7),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR autopush (8),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR test-m2pa (8),
.BR SIGTRAN (4),
.BR sigtran (5),
.BR ss7 (8),
.BR sigtran (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B M2PA
devices are compatible with the Signalling Link Interface (SLI),
.BR sli (7),
Communications Device Interface (CDI),
.BR cdi (7),
and Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI),
.BR dlpi (7).
Compatibility is tested using the
.BR test-m2pa (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "RFC 4165" ,
.[
rfc4165
.]
.IR Q.703 ,
.[
q703
.]
.IR "ETSI MTP Version 2" ,
.[
en 300 008-1
.]
.IR "ANSI T1.111.3" ,
.[
t1.111
.]
.IR M2PA-TEST ,
.[
test-m2pa-07
.]
.IR DLPI .
.[
dlpi revision 2.0.0
.]
Conformance is tested using the
.BR test-m2pa (8)
test case executable and the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M2PA
modules are specific to the
.B OpenSS7
stack.  This is Version 3 of the interface.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
