'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=100
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: m2ua_as_ioctl.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/03/14 00:54:27 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/14 00:54:27 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: m2ua_as_ioctl.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/03/14 00:54:27  brian
.\" - manpages for check maintenance target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/01/26 21:53:43  brian
.\" - working up AS drivers and docs
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M2UA-AS-IOCTL 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B m2ua_as_ioctl
\- IO controls for M2UA-AS devices
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sli_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/m2ua_as_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "struct strioctl *" arg ;
.HP
.BI "int " m2ua_as_stream " = open(" \fR/dev/m2ua-as\fI ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" m2ua_as_stream ", " \fRI_STR\fI ", " arg );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B M2UA-AS-IOCTL
is a definition of the managed object model for the
.BR m2ua_as (4)
driver using the IO controls defined in
.BR lmi_ioctl (4).
The
.BR m2ua_as (4)
driver is an implementation of the SS7 Message Transfer Part Level 2 (MTP2) protocol as defined in
ITU-T Recommendation Q.703
.[
q703
.]
as defined for remote operation using the M2UA protocol defined in RFC 3331
.[
rfc3331
.]
and ETSI TS 102 141.
.[
ts 102 141
.]
.B M2UA-AS-IOCTL
provides the definition of managed objects for the
.BR m2ua_as (4)
driver in accordance with the managed object model in ITU-T Recommendation Q.751.1,
.[
q751-1
.]
and the yet to be written M2UA-MIB.
.PP
.B M2UA
is an implementation of the Signalling System No. 7 Message Transfer Part Level 2 (MTP2) defined in
ITU-T Recommendation Q.703,
.[
q703
.]
ANSI T1.111.3
.[
t1.111
.]
and ETSI EN 300 008-1,
.[
en 300 008-1
.]
as defined for operation of IP networks in RFC 3331
.[
rfc3331
.]
and ETSI TS 102 141.
.[
ts 102 141
.]
.B M2UA-AS
provides remote access to SS7 Signalling Links over an IP network using SCTP as defined in
RFC 2960,
.[
rfc2960
.]
RFC 3309,
.[
rfc3309
.]
RFC 4460
.[
rfc4460
.]
and ETSI TS 102 144.
.[
ts 102 144
.]
.\"
.SS Protocol Service Interface
.PP
.B M2UA-AS
provides the following stream types:
.TP
.I /dev/m2ua-as
This device provides the signalling link service interface using the SL-primitives of the Signalling
Link Interface (SLI) described in
.BR sli (7).
.\"
.SS Object Model
.PP
.B M2UA-AS
provides for management of a number of managed objects.  These objects are of a number of types as
follows:
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_OBJ_TYPE_DF
The default object.  This object refers to the collection of system-wide defaults.
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_OBJ_TYPE_LM
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_OBJ_TYPE_SL
A Signalling Link user object.  This object refers to an SL user object.  For example, an open
.B M2UA-AS
stream is an SL user object.  SL user objects are identified by their device numbers.
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_OBJ_TYPE_AS
An Application Server.  This object refers to a local Application Server.  Application Servers are
directly associated with an attached SL user object.  Application Servers are identified by the
Physical Point of Attachment (PPA) used by the SL user to attach to the AS.
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_OBJ_TYPE_SP
An Application Server Process.  This object refers to the local Application Server Process.  ASPs
are directly associated with the SG that provides service and the AS that they serve.  Application
Server Processes are identified by their SP identifier.  An SP identifier is an arbitrary integer
used to locally identify the ASP.
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_OBJ_TYPE_SG
A Signalling Gateway.  This object refers to a remote Signalling Gateway.  Signalling Gateways are
directly associated with the Application Server Process objects that they serve.  Signalling
Gateways are identified by their SG identifier.  An SG identifier is an arbitrary integer used to
locally identify the SG.
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_OBJ_TYPE_XP
A Transport Provider.  This object refers to an SCTP TPI stream that is linked under the
.B M2UA-AS
multiplexing driver.  SCTP transport provider streams support the Transport Provider Interface (TPI)
a described in
.BR tpi_sctp (7).
Transport provider are identified by their multiplex index.  The multiplex index
is an integer that was returned from the call to the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
input-output control operation that linked the stream.
.PP
Not all conceivable arrangements of objects are possible.  A restricted binding between objects is
provided for management simplicity.  Objects life-cycles are bound as follows:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Whenever the M2UA-AS driver is loaded, a Default object exists.
.IP \(em
When an upper Stream is opened on the M2UA-AS driver, a Signalling Link and Application Server
object exists coincident with the Stream.  The Application Server object associated with an upper
Stream is underspecified (it does not have a configured PPA).
.IP \(em
When a lower Stream is linked under the M2UA-AS driver, a Transport Provider, Signalling Gateway and
Application Server Process object exists coincident with the Stream.
.IP \(em
An upper Stream (SL:AS) is associated with a lower Stream (SP:SG:XP) when the Stream is attached
using the
.BR LMI_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive.  This primitive also includes the PPA that fully specifies the AS.  The AS can also be
viewed as being created by the attach process.
.IP \(em
The upper Stream is disassociated with with a lower Stream when the Stream is detached using the
.BR LMI_DETACH_REQ (7)
primitive or when the upper Stream is closed.
.IP \(em
To reduce lock contention, a lower Stream cannot be unlinked while an upper Stream remains
associated with it (attached to it).
.PP
The foregoing applies to upper Streams opened on the zero clone minor device and lower Streams
permanently linked with the
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control operation.  Two other situations are as follows:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
When a non-zero clone minor device is opened, the resulting upper Stream is immediately associated
with a lower Stream by the number of the minor device.
.IP 2.
When a lower Stream is linked under the multiplexing driver using a temorary link provided by the
.IR I_LINK (7)
input-output control operation, the upper Stream is immediately associated with the lower Stream.
Lower Streams linked in this fashion cannot be attached to by other upper Streams.
.PP
In both cases, a PPA address must still be specified using the
.BR LMI_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive, but the SG identifier does not have to be specified.

.\"
.SS Management Attributes
.PP
Each object has associated with it information in the following categories:
.TP \w'\fIConfiguration\fR\(em'u
.I Configuration
All of the primary attributes necessary and sufficient for the creation of each object.
.TP
.I Options
Options (not necessary for creation) for each object.
.TP
.I State
The (dynamic) state of each object, including running timers.
.TP
.I Statistics
Statistics associated with each object in accordance with ITU-T Recommendation Q.752
.[
q752
.]
or ANSI T1.116.1,
.[
t1.116.1
.]
and the yet to be written M2UA-MIB.
.TP
.I Events
Events associated with each object.  This includes both management events in accordance with
RFC 3331
.[
rfc3331
.]
and ETSI TS 102 141,
.[
ts 102 141
.]
and monitoring events in accordance with ITU-T Recommendation Q.752
.[
q752
.]
or ANSI T1.116.1.
.[
t1.116.1
.]
.TP
.I Controls
Management controls applicable to each object, in accordance with RFC 3331
.[
rfc3331
.]
and
ETSI TS 102 141.
.[
ts 102 141
.]
.PP
Each object has associated with it information in the following categories:
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_option {
    lmi_ulong type;                     /* object type */
    lmi_ulong id;                       /* object id */
    /* followed by object-specific option structure */
} m2ua_option_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I type
specifies the object type and can be one of the values described under
.RI \(lq "Object Model" ,\(rq
above.
.TP
.I id
specifies the object identifier of type,
.IR type ,
as described above under
.RI \(lq "Object Model" \(rq.
.PP
The following input-output controls use the
.B m2ua_option
structure:
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCGOPTION
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCSOPTION
.\"
.SS Default
.PP
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_opt_conf_df {
    struct lmi_option sl_proto;
    struct lmi_option sp_proto;
    struct lmi_option sg_proto;
    lmi_ulong tack;
    lmi_ulong tbeat;
    lmi_ulong tidle;
    lmi_ulong testab;
    lmi_ulong ppi;
    lmi_ushort istreams;
    lmi_ushort ostreams;
} m2ua_opt_conf_df_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP 12
.I sl_proto
.TP
.I sp_proto
.RS
.TP
.I pvar
Protocol version and variant.
.TP
.B M2UA_VERSION_NONE
When specified, the ASP supports Version 1 of the M2UA protocol as specified in RFC 3331, but
attempts to be as interoperable as possible with other variants.
.PD 0
.TP
.B M2UA_VERSION_RFC3331
When specified, the ASP supports Version 1 of the M2UA protocol as specified in RFC 3331.
.[
rfc3331
.]
.TP
.B M2UA_VERSION_TS102141
When specified, the ASP supports Version 1 of the M2UA protocol as specified in RFC 3331 and
modified by ETSI TS 102 141.
.[
ts 102 141
.]
.PD
.PP
.TP
.I popt
Protocol options.
.TP
.B M2UA_SG_ASPEXT
When specified, the ASP supports the ASP Extensions procedures and information elements described
in ASPEXT.
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-aspext-04.txt
.]
.PD 0
.TP
.B M2UA_SG_SGINFO
When specified, the ASP supports the SG Information procedures and information elements described in
SGINFO.
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-sginfo-05.txt
.]
.TP
.B M2UA_SG_LOADSEL
When specified, the ASP supports the Load Selection procedures and information elements described in
LOADSEL.
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-loadsel-04.txt
.]
.TP
.B M2UA_SG_LOADGRP
When specified, the ASP supports the Load Grouping procedures and information elements described in
LOADGRP.
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-loadgrp-04.txt
.]
.TP
.B M2UA_SG_CORID
When specified, the ASP supports the Correlation Id and Heartbeat procedures and information
elements described in CORID.
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-corid-04.txt
.]
.TP
.B M2UA_SG_REGEXT
When specified, the ASP supports the Registration Extension procedures and information elements
described in REGEXT.
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-regext-04.txt
.]
.TP
.B M2UA_SG_SESSID
When specified, the ASP supports the Session Identification procedures and information elements
described in SESSID.
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-sessid-04.txt
.]
.TP
.B M2UA_SG_DYNAMIC
When specified, the ASP supports the optional Dynamic Registration procedures and information
elements described in RFC 3331.
.[
rfc3331
.]
Note that this option is prohibited by ETSI TS 102 141.
.[
ts 102 141
.]
.TP
.B M2UA_SG_ASPCONG
When specified, the ASP supports the Congestion procedures and information elements
described in ASPCONG.
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-aspcong-00.txt
.]
.TP
.B M2UA_SG_TEXTID
When specified, the ASP supports the optional Text Interface Identifier procedures and information
elements descriebd in RFC 3331.
.[
rfc3331
.]
Note that this option is prohibited by ETSI TS 102 141.
.[
ts 102 141
.]
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I sg_proto
This member provides defaults for the M2UA protocol variant and options supported by the remote SG.
.RS
.TP
.I pvar
Protocol version and variant.  The protocol version and variant can contain the same values as
described for the ASP under
.I sp_proto
above, however, this version and variant applies to the remote SG.
.TP
.I popt
Protocol options.  The protocol options can contain a bitwise OR of options flags.  The options flag
are the same as are defined for the
.I sp_proto
above, however, these options apply to the remote SG.
.RE
.TP
.I tack
The default duration for the acknowledgement timer, in milliseconds.
.TP
.I tbeat
The default duration for the heartbeat timer, in milliseconds.
.TP
.I tidle
The default duration for the idle timer, in milliseconds.
.TP
.I testab
The default duration for the establish request timer, in milliseconds.  This timer is only defined
in ETSI TS 102 141.
.[
ts 102 141
.]
.TP
.I ppi
The default Payload Protocol Identifier to use in SCTP data chunks.
.TP
.I istreams
The default maximum number if inbound streams.
.TP
.I ostreams
The default minimum number if outbound streams.
.\"
.SS Transport Provider
.PP
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_opt_conf_xp {
    lmi_ulong ppi;
    lmi_ushort istreams;
    lmi_ushort ostreams;
    lmi_ulong loc_len;
    lmi_ulong rem_len;
    struct sockaddr loc_add;
    struct sockaddr rem_add;
} m2ua_opt_conf_xp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP 12
.I ppi
.TP
.I istreams
.TP
.I ostreams
.TP
.I loc_len
.TP
.I rem_len
.TP
.I loc_add
.TP
.I rem_add
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway
.PP
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_opt_conf_sg {
    struct lmi_option options;
} m2ua_opt_conf_sg_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP 12
.I options
.\"
.SS Application Server Process
.PP
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_opt_conf_sp {
    struct lmi_option options;
    lmi_ulong aspid;
    lmi_ulong tack;
    lmi_ulong tbeat;
    lmi_ulong tidle;
} m2ua_opt_conf_sp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP 12
.I options
.TP
.I aspid
.TP
.I tack
.TP
.I tbeat
.TP
.I tidle
.\"
.SS Application Server
.PP
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_opt_conf_as {
    lmi_ulong tack;
    lmi_ulong tbeat;
    lmi_ulong testab;
} m2ua_opt_conf_as_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP 12
.I tack
.TP
.I tbeat
.TP
.I testab
.\"
.SS Signalling Link
.PP
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_opt_conf_sl {
    lmi_ulong t1;
    lmi_ulong t2;
    lmi_ulong t3;
    lmi_ulong t4e;
    lmi_ulong t4n;
} m2ua_opt_conf_sl_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP 12
.I t1
.TP
.I t2
.TP
.I t3
.TP
.I t4e
.TP
.I t4n
.\"
.SS Layer Management
.PP
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_opt_conf_lm {
} m2ua_opt_conf_lm_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
All objects must be configured using
.BR streamio (7)
input-output controls before they are usable.  The structures required to specify configuration are
defined in the
.RB < sys/m2ua_as_ioctl.h >
header file and are as follows (in order of dependency).
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_config {
    lmi_ulong type;                     /* object type */
    lmi_ulong id;                       /* object id */
    lmi_ulong cmd;                      /* object command */
    /* followed by object-specific config structure */
} m2ua_config_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP 12
.I type
specifies the object type and can be one of the values described under
.RI \(lq "Object Model" ,\(rq
above.
.TP
.I id
specifies the object identifier that identifies an object instance of the object type.  When the
operation is
.BR M2UA_ADD ,
this field can be set to zero (0) and
.BR m2ua_as (4)
will select an implicit or new unique object identifier.  When the operation is
.BR M2UA_GET ,
this field can be set to zero (0) and
.BR m2ua_as (4)
will return all object configurations of a type that will fit into the supplied buffer.
.TP
.I cmd
specifies the command.
.I cmd
can be one of:
.RS
.TP \w'\fBM2UA_MOD\fR\9em'u
.B M2UA_GET
Get the configuration of an object.  This command is only valid with input-output control
.BR M2UA_AS_IOCGCONFIG .
.TP
.B M2UA_ADD
Add an object.
The object must not already exist or an error will result.
This command is not valid with input-output control
.BR M2UA_AS_IOCGCONFIG .
.TP
.B M2UA_CHA
Change an object.
The object must exist or an error will result.
This command is not valid with input-output control
.BR M2UA_AS_IOCGCONFIG .
.TP
.B M2UA_MOD
Modify an object.
If the object does not yet exist it will be created, otherwise the object will be modified.
This command is not valid with input-output control
.BR M2UA_AS_IOCGCONFIG .
.TP
.B M2UA_DEL
Delete an object.
The object must exist or an error will result.
This command is not valid with input-output control
.BR M2UA_AS_IOCGCONFIG .
.RE
.PP
The following input-output controls use the
.B m2ua_config
structure:
.TP \w'\fBM2UA_AS_IOCGCONFIG\fR\(em'u
.B M2UA_AS_IOCGCONFIG
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCSCONFIG
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCTCONFIG
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCCCONFIG
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCLCONFIG
.\"
.SS Default
.PP
Although a configuration structure is defined for the default object, neither creation nor
configuration of the default object is necessary.  The default object exists when the
.BR m2ua_as (4)
driver exists and it does not have to be added.
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_conf_df {
} m2ua_conf_df_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS Transport Provider
.PP
Transport provider objects cannot be created
.RB ( M2UA_ADD )
or deleted
.RB ( M2UA_DEL )
using M2UA-AS input-output controls.  A transport provider object is created when a trasnport stream
is linked under the multiplexing driver using an
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
input-output control operation.  The identifier for the transport is the multiplex index returned
from the 
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
input-output control operation.
Transport provider objects are destroyed whenever the associated transport stream is unlinked from
the driver using an
.IR I_UNLINK "(7) or " I_PUNLINK (7)
input-output control operation.
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_conf_xp {
        lmi_ulong sgid;                 /* SG identifier */
} m2ua_conf_xp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP 12
.I sgid
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway
.PP
Although a configuration structure is defined for the Signalling Gateway object, the object does not
need to be created.  An object is automatically created whenever a Transport Provider Stream is
linked under the
.BR m2ua_as
multiplexing driver.  SG identifiers which are configured against a Transport Provider object, or
implicitly available when linking a Transport Provider Stream, exist.  SG object instances cannot be
added or deleted directly.
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_conf_sg {
} m2ua_conf_sg_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS Application Server Process
.PP
Application Server Processes are neither added nor deleted on their own.  An object is automatically
created whenever a Transport Provider Stream is linked under the
.B m2ua_as
multiplexing driver.  SP identifiers are identical to SG identifiers.  SP object instances cannot be
added or deleted directly.
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_conf_sp {
} m2ua_conf_sp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS Application Server
.PP
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_conf_as {
    struct m2ua_ppa ppa;
} m2ua_conf_as_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS Signalling Link
.PP
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_conf_sl {
} m2ua_conf_sl_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS Layer Management
.PP
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_conf_lm {
} m2ua_conf_lm_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_statem {
    lmi_ulong type;                     /* object type */
    lmi_ulong id;                       /* object id */
    lmi_ulong flags;                    /* object flags */
    lmi_ulong state;                    /* object state */
    /* followed by object-specific state structure */
} m2ua_statem_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP 12
.I type
specifies the object type and can be one of the values described under
.RI \(lq "Object Model" ,\(rq
above.
.TP
.I id
specifies the object identifier of type,
.IR type ,
as described above under
.RI \(lq "Object Model" \(rq.
.TP
.I flags
returns the state flags associated with the object.  The interpretation of the
.I flags
are dependent upon the object type.
.TP
.I state
returns the state associated with the object.  The interpretation of the
.I state
is dependent upon the object type.
.PP
The following input-output controls use the
.B m2ua_statem
structure:
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCGSTATEM
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCCMRESET
.\"
.SS Default
.PP
.\"
.SS Transport Provider
.PP
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway
.PP
.\"
.SS Application Server Process
.PP
.\"
.SS Application Server
.PP
.\"
.SS Signalling Link
.PP
.\"
.SS Layer Management
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH STATISTICS
.PP
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_stats {
    lmi_ulong type;                     /* object type */
    lmi_ulong id;                       /* object id */
    lmi_ulong header;                   /* object stats header */
    /* followed by object-specific stats structure */
} m2ua_stats_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP 12
.I type
specifies the object type and can be one of the values described under
.RI \(lq "Object Model" ,\(rq
above.
.TP
.I id
specifies the object identifier of type,
.IR type ,
as described above under
.RI \(lq "Object Model" \(rq.
.TP
.I header
returns the statistics header (timestamp) associated with the object.
.PP
The following input-output controls use the
.B m2ua_stats
structure:
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCGSTATSP
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCSSTATSP
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCGSTATS
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCCSTATS
.\"
.SS Default
.PP
.\"
.SS Transport Provider
.PP
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway
.PP
.\"
.SS Application Server Process
.PP
.\"
.SS Application Server
.PP
.\"
.SS Signalling Link
.PP
.\"
.SS Layer Management
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EVENTS
.PP
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_notify {
    lmi_ulong type;                     /* object type */
    lmi_ulong id;                       /* object id */
    lmi_notify_t notify;                /* notifications */
} m2ua_notify_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP 12
.I type
specifies the object type and can be one of the values described under
.RI \(lq "Object Model" ,\(rq
above.
.TP
.I id
specifies the object identifier of type,
.IR type ,
as described above under
.RI \(lq "Object Model" \(rq.
.TP
.I notify
specifies or returns the notifications for which the user Stream has registered.
.PP
The following input-output controls use the
.B m2ua_notify
structure:
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCGNOTIFY
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCSNOTIFY
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCCNOTIFY
.\"
.SS Default
.PP
.\"
.SS Transport Provider
.PP
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway
.PP
.\"
.SS Application Server Process
.PP
.\"
.SS Application Server
.PP
.\"
.SS Signalling Link
.PP
.\"
.SS Layer Management
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTROLS
.PP
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct m2ua_mgmt {
    lmi_ulong type;                     /* object type */
    lmi_ulong id;                       /* object id */
    lmi_ulong cmd;                      /* object command */
} m2ua_mgmt_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP 12
.I type
specifies the object type and can be one of the values described under
.RI \(lq "Object Model" ,\(rq
above.
.TP
.I id
specifies the object identifier of type,
.IR type ,
as described above under
.RI \(lq "Object Model" \(rq.
.TP
.I cmd
specifies the management command, and can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_MGMT_UP
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_MGMT_DOWN
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_MGMT_ACTIVATE
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_MGMT_DEACTIVATE
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_MGMT_UP_BLOCK
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_MGMT_UP_UNBLOCK
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_MGMT_ACT_BLOCK
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_MGMT_ACT_UNBLOCK
.RE
.PP
The following input-output controls use the
.B m2ua_mgmt
structure:
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCCMGMT
.TP
.B M2UA_AS_IOCCPASS
.\"
.SS Default
.PP
.\"
.SS Transport Provider
.PP
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway
.PP
.\"
.SS Application Server Process
.PP
.\"
.SS Application Server
.PP
.\"
.SS Signalling Link
.PP
.\"
.SS Layer Management
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All the Streams provided by the
.BR m2ua_as (4)
multiplexing driver support the set of management controls described here.  These controls, for the
most part, require root privileges, and permit the management of M2UA configuration, routing, link
devices, statistics and events.  This set of management controls are available on all Streams
provided by the
.BR m2ua_as (4)
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B M2UA-AS
driver only directly supports the ASP-side of the M2UA protocol.  For the SG-side of the protocol,
see
.BR m2ua-sg (4).
For a peer to peer link protocol, see
.BR m2pa_sl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The
.B M2UA-AS
driver is implemented as a
.I STREAMS
multiplexing driver.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B m2ua-as
driver has no known bugs.  Report problems to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package has been tested with a wide array of production Linux distributions, kernels and target
architectures, and is considered production grade by The OpenSS7 Project.  At the time of release,
the
.B @PACKAGE@
package had no known bugs.  Problems can be reported to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
Please, however, use the included
.B send-pr
script for generating actionable problem reports.  Please see the file \(lqPROBLEMS\(rq in the
release for problem reporting guidelines.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR m2ua-as (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B M2UA-AS
is compatible with implementations based on
RFC 3331
.[
rfc3331
.]
and
ETSI TS 102 141,
.[
ts 102 141
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.B M2UA-AS
driver supports integer and text Interface Identifiers.  Due to the nature of the Signalling Link
Interface that the driver presents, it does not support range Interface Identifiers.
.IP ""
ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
does not support text Interface Identifiers.  When the
.I version
is set to
.BR TS102141 ,
all text interface identifiers are ignored and treated as null.
.IP \(em
The
.B M2UA-AS
driver supports dynamic registration of Link Keys.
.IP ""
ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
does not permit use of dynamic registration.  Applications using the
.B M2UA-AS
driver in an ETSI TS 102 141 environment should not invoke the dynamic registration procedures and
should configure the SG for appropriate operation using input-output controls.  Setting a
.I version
of
.B TS102141
suppresses the ability to request dynamic registration and causes the driver to return
\(lqUnsupported Message Class\(rq to any RKMM class message received.  Because this also suppresses
text interface identifiers, all Keys specified must have a non-zero integer IID value.
.IP \(em
ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
does not support the broadcast AS traffic mode.  When
.I version
is set to
.BR TS102141 ,
the Broadcast traffic mode is treated as an unsupported value.
.IP \(em
ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
requires that a timer be set on the Establish Request and the request retransmitted if an Establish
Confirm or Release Indication MAUP message is not received before the timer expires.  The timer is
set to T1+T2+T3+T4 of Q.703.
.[
q703
.]
This behaviour is only occurs when
.I version
is set to
.BR TS102141 .
.IP \(em
ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
cannot support the
.B SL_LOCAL_PROCESSOR_OUTAGE_REQ
and
.B SL_LOCAL_PROCESSOR_RECOVERED_REQ
primitives.  These primitives generate an error when
.I version
is set to
.BR TS102141 .
.IP \(em
.B M2UA-AS
supports, as an option, the ASP Extensions defined in ASPEXT.
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-aspext-04.txt
.]
See
.BR m2ua_as_ioctl (4)
for more information on enabling this extension.
.IP \(em
.B M2UA-AS
supports, as an option, the SG Information extensions defined in SGINFO.
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-sginfo-05.txt
.]
See
.BR m2ua_as_ioctl (4)
for more information on enabling this extension.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "RFC 3331" ,
.[
rfc3331
.]
.IR "ETSI TS 102 141" ,
.[
ts 102 141
.]
.IR "draft-bidulock-sigtran-m2ua-ss7test" ,
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-m2ua-ss7test-02
.]
.IR "ETSI TS 102 380" .
.[
ts 102 380
.]
.PP
Conformance to
.IR "ETSI TS 102 141"
.[
ts 102 141
.]
per tests specified by
.IR "ETSI TS 102 380" ,
.[
ts 102 380
.]
is validated using the
.BR test-m2ua_as (8)
test case executable and the package
.B autotest
test suite.
.PP
Conformance to
.IR "RFC 3331" ,
.[
rfc3331
.]
per tests specified by
.IR "draft-bidulock-sigtran-m2ua-ss7test" ,
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-m2ua-ss7test-02
.]
is validated using the
.BR test-m2ua (8)
test case executable and the package
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M2UA-AS
driver was intially released for sigtran 0.9.2.1.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
