'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=100
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: m2ua-as.4.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-29 01:52:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 01:52:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: m2ua-as.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-29 01:52:15  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2007/03/14 00:54:27  brian
.\" - manpages for check maintenance target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/01/28 01:00:20  brian
.\" - updated references and manual pages
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/01/26 21:54:30  brian
.\" - working up AS drivers and docs
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/01/23 10:00:42  brian
.\" - added test program and m2ua-as updates
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/01/21 20:20:06  brian
.\" - added documetation
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M2UA-AS 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B m2ua-as
\- SS7 MTP2 User Adaptation Layer (M2UA) Application Server (AS)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/lmi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/lmi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sli.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sli_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/m2ua_ioctl.h>
.HP 12
\fBint \fIm2ua_stream\fB = open(\fB\(lq\fI/dev/m2ua-sg1\fB\(rq, O_RDWR);
.PD 0
.HP
\fBint \fIsctp_stream\fB = open(\fB\(lq\fI/dev/sctp_t\fB\(rq, O_RDWR);
.HP
\fBint \fImuxid\fB = ioctl(I_PLINK, (intptr_t) \fIsctp_stream\fB);
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B M2UA-AS
is an implementation of the SS7 MTP2 User Adaptation Layer (M2UA) protocol defined in RFC 3331
.[
rfc3331
.]
and
ETSI TS 102 141.
.[
ts 102 141
.]
.B M2UA
provides a backhaul of services of the SS7 Signalling Link over an IP newtork using Stream Control
Transmission Protocol,
.BR sctp (4),
as defined in RFC 2960,
.[
rfc2960
.]
RFC 3309,
.[
rfc3309
.]
RFC 4460,
.[
rfc4460
.]
and ETSI TS 102 144.
.[
ts 102 144
.]
.PP
.B M2UA-AS
is implementated as a
.IR STREAMS (9)
multiplexing driver.
.BR sctp_t (4)
Streams are opened and linked under the
.B M2UA-AS
driver using the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
STREAMS input-output control commands.
Once the SCTP Stream is linked, it can be configured using the
.B M2UA-AS
input-output control commands described in
.BR m2ua_as_ioctl (4).
Streams opened on the upper multiplex provide SS7 Signalling Link services in accordance with Q.703,
.[
q703
.]
ETSI EN 300 008-1,
.[
en 300 008-1
.]
and ANSI T1.111.3,
.[
ansi t1.111
.]
by providing the Signalling Link Interface (SLI), described in
.BR sli (7).
.PP
.B M2UA-AS
provides two types of control Streams: one for permanent links and another for temporary links; and
one user Stream, as follows:
.TP
.IR /dev/m2ua-as-lm ", " /dev/streams/m2ua-as/lm
A single permanent link control stream can be obtained by opening the
.RI \(lq /dev/m2ua-as-lm \(rq
minor device.  Lower Streams linked using the
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control make this Stream their control Stream.  If the Stream is closed and reopened,
the newly opened Stream becomes the control stream for all existing permanent links.  Although the
control stream is a clone minor device, further opens of the clone minor device are refused when a
Stream opened on the minor device is already open.  This restricts the number of open control
Streams to one (1).
.IP ""
Lower Streams linked using this control Stream can be made available to other M2UA-AS users by
configuring the lower Stream with M2UA-AS input-output controls.  (That is, by establishing a
Signalling Gateway identifier with which other M2UA-AS users can attach to the lower stream.)
Only this control Stream is permitted to configure or otherwise affect the linked Stream.
.IP ""
This control Stream provides the M2UA Layer Management service interface described in
.BR m2ua_lm (7).
.TP
.IR /dev/m2ua-as ", " /dev/streams/clone/m2ua-as
Multiple temporary link control streams can be obtained by opening the
.RI \(lq /dev/m2ua-as \(rq
minor device.  Lower Streams linked using the
.IR I_LINK (7)
input-output control make this Stream their control Stream.  If the Stream is closed, all linked
Streams are unlinked as part of normal
.IR STREAMS (9)
behaviour.
.IP ""
Lower Streams linked using this control Stream can be made available to other M2UA-AS users with the
same credentials as the control Stream.  This is made possible by assigining a Signalling Gateway
identifier to the lower Stream with M2UA-AS input-output controls.
Only this control Stream is permitted to configure or otherwise affect the linked Stream.
.IP ""
This control Stream provides the M2UA Layer Management service interface described in
.BR m2ua_lm (7),
the Transport Provider Interface (TPI),
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
described in
.BR tpi "(7) and " tpi_sctp (7),
and the Local Management Interface (LMI) described in
.BR lmi (7)
and the Signalling Link Interface (SLI) described in
.BR sli (7).
The M2UA LM interface can only be used against lower Streams linked by this control Stream.  The TPI
interface can be used to directly control SCTP Transport Providers linked by this control Stream.
The LMI and SLI interfaces can be used to also behave as an SL-User as described below.
.TP
.IR /dev/m2ua-as ", " /dev/streams/clone/m2ua-as ", " /dev/streams/m2ua-as/\fBNNNN\fP
.\"
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
When the M2UA-AS driver is configured, SCTP Streams are opened and linked under the multiplexing
driver.  Each SCTP Stream represents an association between a local ASP and a remote Signalling
Gateway.  Input-output controls are used to configure each lower multiplex Stream.  Once a lower
multiplex Stream is configured, the M2UA-AS driver attempts to form an SCTP association with the
remote SG, and to bring the M2UA association into the ASP Up state.  Should the association be
dropped, the ASP-SG relation is moved to the ASP Down state and the M2UA-AS driver attempts to
reconnect the association and bring it to the ASP Up state and activate all active interfaces.
.PP
Once configured, SL Streams can be opened on the upper multiplex.  These SL Streams are not
associated with an ASP-SG association until they are attached.  When the
.BR LMI_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive is issued, the PPA contained in the request is composed of an SG identifier, and either an
SDLI/SDTI tuple (if the SG supports dynamic configuration), or an Interface Identifier (if the SG
supports static configuration).  This information is sufficient for the M2UA-AS driver to determine
the association and Link Key that is to be used to register the interface.  When the
.BR LMI_ENABLE_REQ (7)
primitive is issued, the registered or assigned Interface Identifier is used to activate the
interface with the remote SG.
.PP
After the link has been attached with the
.BR LMI_ATTACH_REQ (7),
it can be linked beneath the SL-MUX multiplexing device driver and assigned a CLEI and global PPA.
.PP
Configuration is performed using an M2UA-AS driver configuration utility.  This utility reads a
configuration file used to define the objects necessary for configuration.  The configuration file
contains entries that define ASP-SG relationships as follows:
.TP
.I sgid
An integer number, assigned locally, from 1 to 4096, identifying the ASP-SG relation, or
a Common Language Equipment Identifier used to globally identify the SG.
When specified, the CLEI will be used in diagnostic text (e.g. INFO parameters) when referring to
the SG.
When both the integer and CLEI SG identifiers are specified, they are separated by a comma
with no intervening whitespace.
.TP
.I aspid
The ASPID that is used in communciation with the remote SG.  This ASPID can be null (a single dash,
.RB ` - ')
indicating that no ASPID is to be used in communication with the remote SG.  This ASPID corresponds
also to the value zero
.RB ( 0 ).
Also, a Common Language Equipment Identifier can be specified to globally identify the ASP.
When specified, this CLEI will be used in diagnostic text (e.g. INFO parameters) when referring to
the ASP.
When both the integer and CLEI ASP identifiers are specified, they are separated by a comma
with no intervening whitespace.
.TP
.I local-endpoint
The local endpoint address to which an SCTP association is bound to communicate with the remote SG.
This can take the form:
\fIhostname\fR[\fB,\fIhostname\fR][\fB:\fIport\fR]
or the form:
\fIipaddress\fR[\fB,\fIipaddress\fR][\fB:\fIservice\fR]
or combinations of hostnames and IP addresses and either port or service.  The special hostname
consisting of a single star,
.RB ` * ',
can be used to indicate a wildcard address.  If the port or service is not specified, then a dynamic
port will be allocated.  If the service is specified as
.BR m2ua ,
then the M2UA well-known port number will be used.
.TP
.I remote-endpoint
The remote endpoint addess to which an SCTP association will connect to communicate with the remote
SG.  This can take the form:
\fIhostname\fR[\fB,\fIhostname\fR][\fB:\fIport\fR]
or the form:
\fIipaddress\fR[\fB,\fIipaddress\fR][\fB:\fIservice\fR]
or combinations of hostnames and IP addresses and either port or service.  If the port or service is
not specified, the M2UA well-known port number will be used.
.TP
.I streams
The number of SCTP streams that will be requested to the SG.
.TP
.I version
The version of the M2UA protocol supported by the SG.  This version can be a single dash
.RB ( - ),
indicating that the default should be used, or one of the following text strings:
.RS
.TP
.B RFC3331
The SG supports Version 1 of the M2UA protocol as specified in RFC 3331.
.[
rfc3331
.]
.TP
.B TS102141
The SG supports Version 1 of the M2UA protoocl as specified in RFC 3331
.[
rfc3331
.]
as modified by ETSI TS 102 141.
.[
ts 102 141
.]
.RE
.TP
.I options
Contains a comma separated list of SG options, with no embedded whitespace.  Valid options can
depend on the value of the
.I version
field.
The following options are defined:
.RS
.TP
.B dynamic
When included in the options, this keyword specifies that the SG requires dynamic registration.  If
this option is not included, the SG requires static registration.  As it does not support dynamic
registration, this option is not valid for ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
operation.
.RE
.PP
The configuration utility, reads this configuration file and performs the following steps for each
entry in the file:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The utility opens an SCTP association by opening the
.B /dev/sctp_t
device.
.IP 2.
The utility opens a Stream on the M2UA-AS driver using the
.B /dev/m2ua-as
device and links the Stream for the SCTP association under the M2UA-AS multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK (7)
or
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control.
.IP 3.
The utility uses a single specialized M2UA-AS input-output control to associate the lower multiplex
Stream with an SG (and local ASP).  The input-output control takes the information provided in the
configuration file line entry, and the mulltiplexer identifier returned from the
.IR I_LINK (7)
or
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control operation.  The M2UA-AS driver then creates a new ASP object if necessary and
completes the SG object information as part of the lower multiplex Stream private structure.  The
M2UA-AS driver also binds and connects the SCTP association and attempts to bring the ASP to the ASP
Up state with the remote SG.
.IP 4.
The steps 1 through 3 above are repeated for each entry in the configuration file.
.IP 5.
The utility can also open and attach signalling link Streams and link them under the SL-MUX
multiplexing driver with a global PPA and CLEI.  (Quite often the global PPA is merely a
concatenation of the SDTI/SDLI values and the CLEI is simply the text IID.)
.\"
.SH ADDRESSING
.PP
All M2UA-AS upper multiplex Streams (SL) are Style II links.  That is, they must be attached with an
.BR LMI_ATTACH_REQ (7)
primitive containing a PPA before they are enabled.
The M2UA PPA is specified using the
.B m2ua_ppa
structure, defined in the
.RB < sys/m2ua_as.h >
header file.  The
.B m2ua_ppa
structure is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct m2ua_ppa {
    unsigned int sgid;
    uint16_t sdti;
    uint16_t sdli;
    uint32_t iid;
    char clei[M2UA_CLEI_MAX];
    uint32_t tmode;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B m2ua_ppa
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I sgid
Specifies the server process identifier that locally identifies the ASP-SG instance to which the
interface identifiers and link keys apply.  Assignment and management of this index is a matter for
configuration management.  This number can be a small integer and can correspond to a minor device
number on the M2UA-AS driver.
Specification of the
.I sgid
member is mandatory when a zero minor device number was opened.
Specification of the
.I sgid
member is optional when a non-zero minor device number was opened, in which case the
.I sgid
is implied by the minor device opened.
When not specified, the
.I sgid
member is set to zero (0).
.TP
.I sdti
Specifies the Signalling Data Terminal Identifier to be used in a Link Key for registering the
Application Server with the Signalling Gateway.  This member will only be used if the
.I iid
and
.I clei
members are not specified and if the SG supports dynamic registration.
Specification of the
.I sdti
member is optional when the
.I iid
or
.I clei
members are specified and mandatory otherwise.
When not specified, the
.I sdti
member may be set to zero (0).
.TP
.I sdli
Specifies the Signalling Data Link Identifier to be used in a Link Key for registering the
Application Server with the Signalling Gateway.  This member will only be used if the
.I iid
and
.I clei
members are not specified and if the SG supports dynamic registration.
Specification of the
.I sdli
member is optional when the
.I iid
or
.I clei
members are specified and mandatory otherwise.
When not specified, the
.I sdli
member may be set to zero (0).
.TP
.I iid
Specifies the integer-based Interface Identifier to be used in communications between the
Application Server and the Signalling Gateway that identifies the signalling link.
Specification of the
.I iid
member is mandatory when the SG does not support text-based IIDs and also does not support dynamic
registration.
Specification of the
.I iid
member is optional when the
.I clei
member is specified (and the SG supports text IIDs), or when the
.IR sdti " and " sdli
members are specified (and the SG supports dynamic registration).
When not specified, the
.I iid
member is set to zero (0).
.TP
.I clei
Specifies the text-based Inteface Identifier to be used in communication between the Application
Service and the Signalling Gateway that identifies the signalling link.
Specification of the
.I clei
member is mandatory when text-based IIDs are to be used.
Specification of the
.I clei
member is optional when the
.I iid
member is specified, or when the
.IR sdti " and " sdli
members are specified (and the SG supports dynamic registration).
When not specified, the
.I clei
member is set to a null string (the first character in the field is the null character).
.TP
.I tmode
Specifies the Traffic Mode Type for the Application Server.
Specification of the
.I tmode
member is optional.  When not specified, the
.I tmode
member is set to a zero (0).  Otherwise,
.I tmode
can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B UA_TMODE_NONE
The traffic mode is unspecified or default.
.PD 0
.TP
.B UA_TMODE_OVERRIDE
The traffic mode is override.
.TP
.B UA_TMODE_LOADSHARE
The traffic mode is loadshare.
.TP
.B UA_TMODE_BROADCAST
The traffic mode is broadcast.
.PD
.PP
Note that not all Signalling Gateways support all traffic modes.
.RE
.PP
When an integer IID is specified in the PPA, the M2UA-AS driver will use static configuration and
the integer IID supplied.  All other fields are ignored.  Otherwise, when a text-based IID (CLEI) is
specified, the M2UA-AS driver will use static configuration and the CLEI supplied.  When neither IID
nor CLEI are specified, the M2UA-AS driver will attempt to register the SDTI/SDLI values with the
SG.
.PP
It is possible to use the minor device number opened on the M2UA-AS driver to imply the SGID;
however, because the PPA is variable length for the SLI, it is quite possible to provide 64-bits or
more of information (unlike the DLPI interface).  This saves creating many device nodes or using
.BI /dev/streams/m2ua-as/ NNN
minor device nodes.  Therefore, when the device opened was minor device zero (0); an SGID must
be specified in the PPA.  When the device opened was minor device
.IR NNN ,
where
.I NNN
is a number from 1 to 4096, the SGID does not need to be present in the PPA and the opened minor
device number is used as the SGID instead.
.PP
Note that for OpenSS7 SGs, the SDLI/SDTI combination and the integer IID are the same numeric value.
When an ASP registers the Link Key containing an SDLI and SDTI, the IID returned to the registration
request is simply the 16-bit SDLI and SDTI concatenated into a 32-bit IID.
.PP
The SGID is used directly to locate the lower multiplex Stream.  If there does not exist a lower
multiplex Stream with the requested SGID, the request will fail.
.\"When the lower multiplex Stream exists, the SL streams attached to the lower multiplex Stream are
.\"searched to determine if another Stream is already attached to the SDLI/SDTI or IID.  Only one
.\"Stream can be attached to a given SDLI/SDTI or IID at a time.  The second request to attach to the
.\"same SDLI/SDTI or IID will fail.
When successful, and the lower SCTP Stream is active (ASP Up), and the PPA requires dynamic
registration, dynamic registration will be performed on the SDLI/SDTI used as a Link Key.  If the
lower Stream is not ASP Up, or the regsitration fails, the attach request will fail.  If the PPA
does not require registration, the IID will be assigned to the attached Stream and the attach
operation will succeed.  The SCTP association does not need to be in the ASP Up state at this point
(it will
when the
.BR LMI_ENABLE_REQ (7)
appears).
.PP
When SL Streams opened on the upper multiplex of the M2UA-AS driver are attached, the validity of
the PPA depends upon whether the SG requires dynamic registration or not.  When the SG requires
dynamic configuration, the PPA consists of the
.I sgid
and an tuple consisting of the Signalling Data Link Identifier (SDLI) and the Signalling Data
Terminal Identifier (SDTI).  When the SG requires static configuration, the PPA consists of the
.I sgid
and the assigned Interface Identifier (integer or text).  The M2UA-AS driver identifies the
association and interface identifier for which to activate and process messages for the interface
using the
.I sgid
and the Interface Identifier that was either specified or was obtained by registering the link key
consisting of the SDLI and SDTI specified.
An additional, optional, traffic mode type can also be specified as part of the PPA.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The M2UA-AS driver provides several input-output controls for configuring the driver as follows:
.\"
.SS M2UA_AS_IOCSCONFIG
.PP
This input-output control is responsible for setting information associated with a lower multiplex
SCTP Stream.
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.B m2ua_sg
structure.  The
.B m2ua_sg
structure is defined in the
.RB < sys/m2ua_ioctl.h >
header file and is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#define M2UA_CLEI_MAX 32

struct m2ua_sg {
    int m2_index;
    unsigned int m2_sgid;
    char m2_sg_clei[M2UA_CLEI_MAX];
    unsigned int m2_aspid;
    char m2_asp_clei[M2UA_CLEI_MAX];
    struct sockaddr m2_loc_add;
    socklen_t m2_loc_len;
    struct sockaddr m2_rem_add;
    socklen_t m2_rem_len;
    unsigned int m2_ppi;
    unsigned short m2_streams;
    unsigned short m2_options;
    unsigned int m2_version;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I m2_index
This member is the lower multiplex index returned by the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
input-output control operation that was used to link the lower Stream.  It specifies the lower
multiplex SCTP Stream to configure.
.TP
.I m2_sgid
This member specifies the SG identifier for the Stream.  The SG identifier is an integer number from
1 to 4096 that locally identifies the SG.  This number also corresponds to the minor device number
on the
.B m2ua-as
driver that can be opened to obtain an instance of an AS associated with this SG.  Which number
corresponds to which remote SG is a local configuration matter.
.TP
.I m2_sg_clei
This member specifies the SG Common Language Equipment Identifier for the Stream.  The SG CLEI is an
ASCII string of up to
.B M2UA_CLEI_MAX
characters (typically 32).  Either the
.I m2_sgid
or
.I m2_sg_clei
or both are specified.  When the
.I m2_sgid
is not specified, it is set to zero (0); when the
.I m2_sg_clei
is not specified, it is set to a null string (the first character is the null character).  The SG
CLEI is used as a convenience for identifying SGs as well as providing a human-friendly value to
output in diagnostic messages.
.TP
.I m2_aspid
This member specifies the ASP identifier that the ASP will use when sending ASP Up to the associated
SG.  When set to zero (0), no ASP identiifer will be sent in the ASP Up to the associated SG (unless
one is demanded).
.TP
.I m2_asp_clei
This member specifies the ASP Common Language Equipment Identifier for the Stream.  The ASP CLEI is
an ASCII string of up to
.B M2UA_CLEI_MAX
characters (typeically 32).  Both the
.I m2_aspid
and
.I m2_asp_clei
are optional.  When the
.I m2_asp_clei
is not specified, it is set to a null string (the first character is set to null).  The ASP CLEI is
used as a convenience for identifying ASPs as well as providing a human-friendly value to output in
diagnostic messages.
.TP
.I m2_loc_add
Specifies the local endpoint address to which the SCTP association is bound to communicate with the
remote SG.  This can be any address form that can be used by the
.BR T_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive for SCTP, see
.BR tpi_sctp (7).
.TP
.I m2_loc_len
Specifies the number of bytes in the
.I m3_loc_add
member that are significant.
.TP
.I m2_rem_add
Specifies the remote endpoint address to which the SCTP associaiton will connect to communicate with
the SG.  This can be any address form that can be used by the
.BR T_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive for SCTP, see
.BR tpi_sctp (7).
.TP
.I m2_rem_len
Specifies the number of bytes in the
.I m3_rem_add
member that are significant.
.TP
.I m2_ppi
This member specifies the Payload Protocol Identifier (PPI) used in SCTP messages.  When set to zero
(0), the IANA registered PPI for M2UA will be used.
.TP
.I m2_streams
This member specifies the number of outbound SCTP data streams that the ASP will request when
connecting to the remote SG.  The default value is 32.  When unspecified, it is set to zero (0).  It
is invalid to form a connection with less that 2 outboung SCTP data stream (one for management
messages and one for SL-User data).
.TP
.I m2_version
Specifies the version of the M2UA protocol used by the SG.  When not specified, it is set to zero
(0).  Otherise, the value can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B M2UA_VERSION_RFC3331
Specifies that the protocol should adhere strictly to Version 1 of the M2UA protocol as specified in
RFC 3331.
.[
rfc3331
.]
.TP
.B M2UA_VERSION_TS102141
Specifies that the protocol should adhere strictly to Version 1 of the M2UA protocol as modified by
ETSI TS 102 141.
.[
ts 102 141
.]
.RE
.TP
.I m2_options
Specifies the SG option flags.  SG option flags are a logical OR of zero or more of the following
flags:
.RS
.TP
.B M2UA_SG_DYNAMIC
This flag specifies that the SG requires dynamic registration.  If this flag is absent, it specifies
that the SG requires static configuration.
.RE
.\"
.SS M2UA_AS_IOCGCONFIG
.PP
This input-output control takes as an argument a pointer to a buffer area into which to place the
configuration information.
.\"
.SS M2UA_AS_IOCLCONFIG
.PP
This input-output control lists SG Stream configurations.
This input-output control takes as an argument a pointer to a buffer area into which to place the
configuration information.
.I arg
is either a pointer to a
.B m2ua_sg_list
structure, or
.BR NULL .
The
.B m2ua_sg_list
structure is defined in the
.RB < sys/m2ua_ioctl.h >
header file and is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct m2ua_sg_list {
    int m2_sg_num;
    struct m2ua_sg m2_sg_list[0];
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B m2ua_sg_list
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I m2_sg_num
This member contains the number of elements in the array of
.B m2ua_sg
structures in the
.I m2_sg_list
array member described below.  This member is not altered by a successful input-output control
operation.
.TP
.I m2_sg_list
This member is a list (array) of
.B m2ua_sg
structures.  The number of elements in the list is specified by the
.I m2_sg_num
member.  Elements in the list are overwritten by a successful input-output control operation.
.PP
This input-output control returns zero (0) or a positive number on success and minus one (-1) on
failure.  When successful, the zero (0) or positive number returned is the current number of SG
configurations with information available for retrieval.  When pass a
.B NULL
.I arg
value, this return value can be used to size the
.B m2ua_sg_list
structure for a subsequent input-output control operation.  Note, however, that the number of
SG configurations available for information retrieval may change, and the return value from a
subsequent operation should be checked to ensure that complete information has been obtained.
.PP
Upon successful return with a
.RB non- NULL
.I arg
value, the driver will have populated up to
.I m2_sg_num
elements in the list,
.IR m2_sg_list ,
with the SG configuration of available SG Streams in unspecified order.  If fewer elements were
populated that were available, the return value from the input-output control operation will be less
than
.IR m2_sg_num ;
if more elements were available, only
.I m2_sg_num
elements are written and the return value from the input-output control operation will be greater
than
.IR m2_sg_num .
.\"
.SS M2UA_AS_IOCSKEY
.PP
This input-output control is used to add a Link Key to Interface Identifier mapping for static
or dynamic configuration.
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.BR m2ua_key
structure.  The
.BR m2ua_key
structure is defined in the
.RB < sys/m2ua_ioctl.h >
header file and is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#define M2UA_CLEI_MAX 32

struct m2ua_key {
    unsigned int m2_sgid;
    char m2_sg_clei[M2UA_CLEI_MAX];
    unsigned int m2_tmode;
    unsigned int m2_iid;
    char m2_iid_text[M2UA_CLEI_MAX];
    unsigned short m2_sdti;
    unsigned short m2_sdli;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B m2ua_key
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I m2_sgid
This member identifies the SG to which the key applies.  The SG identifier is an integer number from
1 to 4096 that identifies the SG locally.  This number also corresponds to the minor device number
on the
.B M2UA-AS
driver that can be opened to obtain an instance of an AS associated with this SG.  When the
input-output control is called from a Stream that was opened on a non-zero minor device number, the
.I m2_sgid
is implied, does not need to be specified, can be set to zero (0), and will be ignored by the
driver (the SG identifier associated with the minor device number will be used instead).  Also, if
the
.I m2_sg_clei
below is specified, the
.I m2_sgid
member can be set to zero (0) and the driver will use the
.I m2_sg_clei
to specify or identify the SG.
.TP
.I m2_sg_clei
This member identifies the SG to which the key applies.  The SG CLEI is null-terminated ASCII string
of up to
.B M2UA_CLEI_MAX
characters in length.  When unspecified, the
.I m2_sg_clei
member contains a null string (the first character is the null character).
.TP
.I m2_tmode
This member contains the traffic mode the will be used in the ASP Active message in communications
with this SG.  The
.I m2_tmode
member can contain one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B M2UA_TMODE_NONE
.PD 0
No traffic mode parameter will be included in the ASP Active message, however, the ASP will still
respond to \(lqAlternate ASP Active in AS\(rq NOTIFY messages.
.TP
.B M2UA_TMODE_OVERRIDE
The traffic mode in the ASP Active message will be Override.
.TP
.B M2UA_TMODE_LOADSHARE
The traffic mode in the ASP Active message will be Loadshare.
.TP
.B M2UA_TMODE_BROADCAST
The traffic mode in the ASP Active message will be Broadcast.  Note that
ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
does not support broadcast traffic mode, but
RFC 3331,
.[
rfc3331
.]
does.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I m2_iid
This member contains the integer Interface Identifier value (32-bit integer) that will be used for
this link key in communications with this SG.  When the SG requires dynamic registration, this
member will be set to zero (0) when the link key is not registered and requires registration.
.TP
.I m2_iid_text
This member contains the text Interface Identifier string (of up to
.B M2UA_CLEI_MAX
characters) that will be used for this link key in comunications with this SG.  Text interface
identifiers are only specified when the SG supports text based Interface Identifiers; otherwise,
this member contains a null string (the first character is the null character).
.TP
.I m2_sdti
This member contains the Signalling Data Terminal Identifier forming this link key.  This identifier
is used to match requested PPAs against this link key and will be used in the Link Key for dynamic
registration with an SG requiring dynamic registration.
.TP
.I m2_sdli
This member contains the Signalling Data Link Identifier forming this link key.  This identifier is
used to match requested PPAs against this link key and will be used in the Link Key for dynamic
registration with an SG requiring dynamic registration.
.PP
All keys are associated with a particular lower SCTP Stream.  Should the lower SCTP Stream be
unlinked, all keys associated with that Stream will be removed from the key table.
.\"
.SS M2UA_AS_IOCCKEY
.PP
This input-output control removes a local Link Key to Interface Identifier mapping for a specified
Link Key.
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.B m2ua_key
structure (defined above).
.PP
The
.IR m2_sgid " or " m2_sg_clei
members must be specified to locate the SG for which the link key will be deleted.  The remaining
members of the
.B m2ua_key
structure identify the link key mapping to be deleted.  One of the
.IR m2_iid "; " m2_iid_text "; or " m2_sdti " and " m2_sdli
members must be specified and exist in the key table.
.I m2_iid
can be set to zero (0) to specify a link key that matches any integer IID value.
.I m2_iid_text
can be set to a null string to specify a link key that matches any text IID value.
.IR m2_sdti " and " m2_sdli
can be set to zero (0) to specify a link key that matches any link identifier values.
These members identify a key that matches all of the specified values.
.\"
.SS M2UA_AS_IOCGKEY
.PP
This input-output control lists key mappings.
.I arg
is either a pointer to a
.B m2ua_key_list
structure or
.BR NULL .
The
.B m2ua_key_list
structure is defined in the
.RB < sys/m2ua_ioctl.h >
header file and is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct m2ua_key_list {
    int m2_key_num;
    struct m2ua_key m2_key_list[0];
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B m2ua_key_list
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I m2_key_num
This member contains the number of elements in the array of
.B m2ua_key
structure in the
.I m2_key_list
member, described below.  This member is not altered by a successful input-output control operation.
.TP
.I m2_key_list
This member is a variable sized array of
.B m2ua_key
structures.  The number of elements in the array is specified by the
.I m2_key_num
member.  Elements of the array are overwritten by a successful input-output control operation.
.PP
This input-output control returns a zero (0) or positive number on success and minus one (-1) on
failure.  When successful, the zero (0) or positive number returned is the current number of keys
with information available for retrieval.  When passed a
.B NULL
.I arg
value, this return value can be used to size a buffer containing a
.B m2ua_key_list
structure for a subsequent input-output operation.  Note, however, that the number of keys available
for information retrieval may change, and the return value from the subsequent operation should be
checked to ensure that complete information has been obtained.
.PP
Upon successful return with a
.RB non- NULL
.I arg
value, the driver will have populated up to
.I m2_key_num
elements in the array
.I m2_key_list
with the key information from available keys in unspecified order.  If fewer elements were populated
than were available, the return value from the input-output control operation will be less than
.IR m2_key_num .
If elements were truncated due to insufficient space, the return value from the input-output control
operation will be greater than
.IR m2_key_num .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B M2UA-AS
driver only directly supports the ASP-side of the M2UA protocol.  For the SG-side of the protocol,
see
.BR m2ua-sg (4).
For a peer to peer link protocol, see
.BR m2pa_sl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The
.B M2UA-AS
driver is implemented as a
.I STREAMS
multiplexing driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/m2ua-sg\fIn
The
.IR n 'th
SG device.
.TP
.B /dev/streams/m2ua-sg/\fIn
The
.IR n 'th
SG device.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.RB < ss7/lmi.h >
Header file that defines the
.BR lmi (7)
interface used by signalling link streams opened on the upper multiplex.
.TP
.RB < ss7/lmi_ioctl.h >
Header file that defines the
.BR lmi_ioctl (7)
input-output controls used by signalling link streams opened on the upper multiplex.
.TP
.RB < ss7/sli.h >
Header file that defines the
.BR sli (7)
interface used by signalling link streams opened on the upper multiplex.
.TP
.RB < ss7/sli_ioctl.h >
Header file that defines the
.BR sli_ioctl (7)
input-output controls used by signalling link streams opened on the upper multiplex.
.TP
.RB < sys/m2ua_ioctl.h >
Header file that defines the
.BR m2ua (4)
input-output controls used by control streams opened on the upper multiplex.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR m2ua (4),
.BR SIGTRAN (4),
.BR m2ua_ioctl (4),
.BR m2ua_as_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B m2ua-as
driver has no known bugs.  Report problems to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package has been tested with a wide array of production Linux distributions, kernels and target
architectures, and is considered production grade by The OpenSS7 Project.  At the time of release,
the
.B @PACKAGE@
package had no known bugs.  Problems can be reported to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
Please, however, use the included
.B send-pr
script for generating actionable problem reports.  Please see the file \(lqPROBLEMS\(rq in the
release for problem reporting guidelines.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B M2UA-AS
is compatible with implementations based on
RFC 3331
.[
rfc3331
.]
and
ETSI TS 102 141,
.[
ts 102 141
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.B M2UA-AS
driver supports integer and text Interface Identifiers.  Due to the nature of the Signalling Link
Interface that the driver presents, it does not support range Interface Identifiers.
.IP ""
ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
does not support text Interface Identifiers.  When the
.I version
is set to
.BR TS102141 ,
all text interface identifiers are ignored and treated as null.
.IP \(em
The
.B M2UA-AS
driver supports dynamic registration of Link Keys.
.IP ""
ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
does not permit use of dynamic registration.  Applications using the
.B M2UA-AS
driver in an ETSI TS 102 141 environment should not invoke the dynamic registration procedures and
should configure the SG for appropriate operation using input-output controls.  Setting a
.I version
of
.B TS102141
suppresses the ability to request dynamic registration and causes the driver to return
\(lqUnsupported Message Class\(rq to any RKMM class message received.  Because this also suppresses
text interface identifiers, all Keys specified must have a non-zero integer IID value.
.IP \(em
ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
does not support the broadcast AS traffic mode.  When
.I version
is set to
.BR TS102141 ,
the Broadcast traffic mode is treated as an unsupported value.
.IP \(em
ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
requires that a timer be set on the Establish Request and the request retransmitted if an Establish
Confirm or Release Indication MAUP message is not received before the timer expires.  The timer is
set to T1+T2+T3+T4 of Q.703.
.[
q703
.]
This behaviour is only occurs when
.I version
is set to
.BR TS102141 .
.IP \(em
ETSI TS 102 141
.[
ts 102 141
.]
cannot support the
.B SL_LOCAL_PROCESSOR_OUTAGE_REQ
and
.B SL_LOCAL_PROCESSOR_RECOVERED_REQ
primitives.  These primitives generate an error when
.I version
is set to
.BR TS102141 .
.IP \(em
.B M2UA-AS
supports, as an option, the ASP Extensions defined in ASPEXT.
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-aspext-04.txt
.]
See
.BR m2ua_as_ioctl (4)
for more information on enabling this extension.
.IP \(em
.B M2UA-AS
supports, as an option, the SG Information extensions defined in SGINFO.
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-sginfo-05.txt
.]
See
.BR m2ua_as_ioctl (4)
for more information on enabling this extension.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "RFC 3331" ,
.[
rfc3331
.]
.IR "ETSI TS 102 141" ,
.[
ts 102 141
.]
.IR "draft-bidulock-sigtran-m2ua-ss7test" ,
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-m2ua-ss7test-02
.]
.IR "ETSI TS 102 380" .
.[
ts 102 380
.]
.PP
Conformance to
.IR "ETSI TS 102 141"
.[
ts 102 141
.]
per tests specified by
.IR "ETSI TS 102 380" ,
.[
ts 102 380
.]
is validated using the
.BR test-m2ua_as (8)
test case executable and the package
.B autotest
test suite.
.PP
Conformance to
.IR "RFC 3331" ,
.[
rfc3331
.]
per tests specified by
.IR "draft-bidulock-sigtran-m2ua-ss7test" ,
.[
draft-bidulock-sigtran-m2ua-ss7test-02
.]
is validated using the
.BR test-m2ua (8)
test case executable and the package
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M2UA-AS
driver was intially released for sigtran 0.9.2.1.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
