'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=100
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: m3ua-as.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/03/14 00:54:27 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/14 00:54:27 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: m3ua-as.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/03/14 00:54:27  brian
.\" - manpages for check maintenance target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/01/26 21:53:44  brian
.\" - working up AS drivers and docs
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M3UA-AS 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B m3ua-as
\- SS7 MTP3 User Adaptation Layer (M3UA) Application Server (AS)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mtpi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/mtpi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/m3ua_ioct.h>
.HP 12
\fBint \fIm3ua_stream\fB = open(\fB\(lq\fI/dev/m3ua-sg1\fB\(rq, O_RDWR);
.PD 0
.HP
\fBint \fIsctp_stream\fB = open(\fB\(lq\fI/dev/sctp_t\fB\(rq, O_RDWR);
.HP
\fBint \fImuxid\fB = ioctl(I_PLINK, (intptr_t) \fIsctp_stream\fB);
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The M3UA-AS is a multiplexing driver that implements the ASP side of the M3UA
.[
rfc3332
.]
.[
ts 129 202
.]
.[
ts 102 142
.]
.[
rfc4666
.]
protocol.
Streams opened on the upper multiplex provide the
.IR "Message Transfer Part Interface (MTPI)" ,
.BR mtpi (7).
Streams linked under the lower multiplex provide the SCTP transport interface,
.BR sctp_t (4).
.\"
.SS Configuration
.PP
When the M3UA-AS driver is configured, SCTP Streams are opened and linked under the multiplexing
driver.  Each SCTP Stream represents an association between a local ASP and a remote Signalling
Gateway Process (SGP) on the same Signalling Gateway (SG).  Input-output controls are used to
configure each lower multiplex Stream.  Once a lower multiplex Stream is configured, the M3UA-AS
driver attempts to form an SCTP association with the remote SGP, and to bring each M3UA association
into the ASP Up state.  Should the association be dropped, the ASP-SGP relation is moved to the ASP
Down state and the M3UA-AS driver attempts to reconnect the association and bring it to the ASP Up
state and activate all active interfaces.
.PP
Once configured, MTP Streams can be opened on the upper multiplex.  These MTP Streams are not
associated with an ASP-SGP association until they are bound or connected.  When the
.BR MTP_BIND_REQ "(7) or " MTP_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive is issued, the address contained in the request is composed of an SG identifier, and
either an MTP address (if the SG supports dynamic configuration), or a Routing Context (if the SG
supports static configuration).  This information is sufficient for the M3UA-AS driver to determine
the association (set) and Routing Key that is to be used to register the interface (AS).  When the
.BR MTP_BIND_REQ "(7) or " MTP_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive is issued, the registered or assigned Routing Context is used to activate the interface
with each SGP for the remote SG.
.PP
After the MTP-User has been bound or connected with
.BR MTP_BIND_REQ "(7) or " MTP_CONN_REQ (7),
it can be linked beneath an MTP-User multiplexing device driver (such as ISUP,
.BR isup (4)).
.PP
Configuration is performed using an M3UA-AS driver configuration utility.  This utility reads a
configuration file used to define the objects necessary for configuration.  The configuration file
contains entries that define ASP-SG relationships as follows:
.TP
.I sgid
An integer number identifying the ASP-SG relation.  This is a number from 1 to 4096.
.TP
.I aspid
The ASPID that is used in communciation with each remote SGP in the SG.  This ASPID can be null (a
single dash,
.RB ` - ')
indicating that no ASPID is to be used in communication with the remote SGP.  This ASPID corresponds
also to the value zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.TP
.I streams
The number of SCTP streams that will be requested to each SGP in the SG.
.TP
.I local-endpoint
The local endpoint address to which an SCTP association is bound to communicate with the remote SGP.
This can take the form:
\fIhostname\fR[\fB,\fIhostname\fR][\fB:\fIport\fR]
or the form:
\fIipaddress\fR[\fB,\fIipaddress\fR][\fB:\fIservice\fR]
or combinations of hostnames and IP addresses and either port or service.  The special hostname
consisting of a single star,
.RB ` * ',
can be used to indicate a wildcard address.  If the port or service is not specified, then a dynamic
port will be allocated.  If the service is specified as
.BR m3ua ,
then the M3UA well-known port number will be used.
.TP
.I remote-endpoint
The remote endpoint addess to which an SCTP association will connect to communicate with the remote
SG.  This can take the form:
\fIhostname\fR[\fB,\fIhostname\fR][\fB:\fIport\fR]
or the form:
\fIipaddress\fR[\fB,\fIipaddress\fR][\fB:\fIservice\fR]
or combinations of hostnames and IP addresses and either port or service.  If the port or service is
not specified, the M3UA well-known port number will be used.
.TP
.I options
Contains a comma separated list of SG options, with no embedded whitespace.  The following options
are defined:
.RS
.TP
.B dynamic
When included in the options, this keyword specifies that the SG requires dynamic registration.  If
this option is not included, the SG requires static registration.
.RE
.PP
The configuration utility, reads this configuration file and performs the following steps for each
entry in the file:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The utility opens an SCTP association by opening the
.B /dev/sctp_t
device.
.IP 2.
The utility opens a Stream on the M3UA-AS driver using the
.B /dev/m3ua-as
device and links the Stream for the SCTP association under the M3UA-AS multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK (7)
or
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control.
.IP 3.
The utility uses a single specialized M3UA-AS input-output control to associate the lower multiplex
Stream with an SG (and local ASP).  The input-output control takes the information provided in the
configuration file line entry, and the mulltiplexer identifier returned from the
.IR I_LINK (7)
or
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control operation.  The M3UA-AS driver then creates a new ASP object if necessary and
completes the SG object information as part of the lower multiplex Stream private structure.  The
M3UA-AS driver also binds and connects the SCTP association and attempts to bring the ASP to the ASP
Up state with the remote SG.
.IP 4.
The steps 1 through 3 above are repeated for each entry in the configuration file.
.IP 5.
The utility can also open and attach MTP Streams and link them under an MTP-User multiplexing
driver.
.\"
.SS Addressing
.PP
All M3UA-AS upper multiplex Streams (MTP) are normal MTP Streams.  That is, they must be bound with
an
.BR MTP_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive containing a local MTP address and optionally connected with a
.BR MTP_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive containing a remote MTP address.  For M3UA-AS, the interpretation of the MTP address
depends upon whether the SG requires dynamic registration or not.  When the SG requires dynamic
registration, the address is interpreted as an optional SGID and an MTP address.  When the SG
requires static configuration, the address is interpreted as an optional SGID and an RC.
.PP
It is possible to use the minor device number opened on the M3UA-AS driver to imply the SGID;
however, because the address is variable length for the MTPI, it is quite possible to provide
64-bits or more of information.  This saves creating many device nodes or using
.BI /dev/streams/m3ua-as/ NNN
minor device nodes.  Therefore, when the device opened was minor device zero (0); an SGID must be
specified in the address.  When the device opened was minor device
.IR NNN ,
where
.I NNN
is a number from 1 to 4096, the SGID does not need to be present in the address and the opened minor
device number is used as the SGID instead.
.PP
The form and interpretation of the address is summarized in the following table:
.sp
.TS
center tab(:);
lblblb
l|l|l.
Address Length:Zero Minor:Non-Zero Minor
_:_:_
4 bytes:-:int RC
8 bytes:int RC, int SGID:int RC, int SGID
12 bytes:-:MTP address
16 bytes:MTP address, int SGID:MTP address, int SGID
.TE
.PP
The SGID is used directly to locate the lower multiplex Streams.  If there does not exist a lower
multiplex Stream with the requested SGID, the request will fail.  When the lower multiplex Stream
exists, the MTP streams attached to the Stream are searched to determine if another Stream is
already attached to the MTP address or RC.  Only one Stream can be attached to a given MTP address
or RC at a time.  The second request to attach to the same MTP address or RC will fail.  When
successful, and at least a lower SCTP Stream is active (ASP Up), and the SG requires dynamic
registration, dynamci registration will be performed on the MTP address used as a Routing Key.  If
the lower Stream is not ASP Up, or the registration fails, the bind or connect request will fail.
If the SG does not require registration, the RC will be assigned to the attached Stream and the bind
or connect operation will succeed.
.PP
When MTP Streams opened on the upper multiplex of the M3UA-AS driver are bound or connected, the
form of the MTP address depends upon whether the SG requires dynamic registration or not.  When the
SG requires dynamic configuration, the MTP address consists of the
.I sgid
and a normal
.B mtp_addr
structure defining the MTP address.  When the SG requires static configuration, the MTP address can
consist of the
.I sgid
and a routing context.  The M3UA-AS driver identifies the associations and routing context for which
to activate and process messages for the interface using the
.I sgid
and the Routing Context that was either specified or was obtained by registering the routing key
consisting of the MTP address specified.
An additional, optional, traffic mode type, can also be specified as part of the address.
.PP
For complete transparency with the MTP interface used by normal MTP-Users, the M3UA-AS driver
provides the ability to locally configure Routing Context values against MTP addresses by
provisioning a local Routing Key (RK) to Routing Context (RC) mapping.  In this way, when an normal
.B mtp_addr
structure formatted MTP address is specified in a
.BR MTP_BIND_REQ "(7) or " MTP_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive, the M3UA-AS driver can locally translate the MTP address to a Routing Context without the
MTP-User having to concern itself with Routing Contexts.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
The M3UA-AS driver provides several input-output controls for configuring the driver as follows:
.\"
.SS M3UA_AS_IOCSCONFIG
.PP
This input-output control is responsible for setting information associated with lower multiplex
SCTP associations.
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.B m3ua_sgp
structure.  The
.B m3ua_sgp
structure is defined in the
.RB < sys/m3ua_ioctl.h >
header file and is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#define M3UA_CLEI_MAX 32

struct m3ua_sgp {
    int m3_index;
    unsigned int m3_sgid;
    char m3_sg_clei[M3UA_CLEI_MAX];
    unsigned int m3_aspid;
    char m3_asp_clei[M3UA_CLEI_MAX];
    struct sockaddr m3_loc;
    socklen_t m3_loc_len;
    struct sockaddr m3_rem;
    socklen_t m3_rem_len;
    unsigned int m3_ppi;
    unsigned short m3_streams;
    unsigned short m3_options;
    unsigned int m3_version;
};

#define M3UA_VERSION_NONE       0
#define M3UA_VERSION_RFC3332    1
#define M3UA_VERSION_TS129202   2
#define M3UA_VERSION_TS102142   3
#define M3UA_VERSION_RFC4666    4
#define M3UA_VERSION_DEFAULT    M3UA_VERSION_RFC3331
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B m3ua_sgp
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I m3_index
This member is the lower multiplex index returned by the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
input-output control operation that was used to link the lower Stream.  It specifies the lower
multiplex SCTP Stream for which to configure addresses and options.
.TP
.I m3_sgid
This member specifies the SG identifier for the Stream.  The SG identifier is a local cardinal
number that identifies the SG.  This number also corresponds to the minor device number on the
.B m3ua-as
driver that can be opened to obtain an instance of an AS associated with this SG.  The number has a
valid range from 1 to 4096.  Which number corresponds to which remote SG is a local configuration
matter.
.TP
.I m3_sg_clei
This member specifies the SG Common Language Equipment Identifier for the Stream.  The SG CLEI is an
ascii string of up to
.B M3UA_CLEI_MAX
characters (typically 32).
Either the
.I m3_sgid
or
.I m3_sg_clei
or both are specified.  When the
.I m3_sgid
is not specified, it is set to zero (0);
when the
.I m3_sg_clei
is not specified, it is set to a null string.
The SG CLEI is used as a convenience for identifying SGs as well as providing a human-friendly value
to output in diagnostic messages.
.TP
.I m3_aspid
This member specifies the ASP identifier that the ASP will use when sending ASP Up to the associated
SGP.  When set to zero (0), no ASP identifier will be sent in the ASP Up to the associated SGP.
.TP
.I m3_asp_clei
This member specifies the ASP Common Language Equipment Identifier for the Stream.  The ASP CLEI is
an ascii string of up to
.B M3UA_CLEI_MAX
characters (typically 32).
Both the
.I m3_aspid
and
.I m3_asp_clei
are optional.  When the
.I m3_aspid
is not specified, it is set to zero (0);
when the
.I m3_asp_clei
is not specified, it is set to a null string.
The ASP CLEI is used as a convenience for identifying ASPs as well as providing a human-friendly value
to output in diagnostic messages.
.TP
.I m3_loc
Specifies the local endpoint address to which the SCTP association is bound to communicate with the
remote SGP.  This can be any address form that can be used by the
.BR T_BIND_REQ (7)
primitive for SCTP, see
.BR tpi_sctp (7).
.TP
.I m3_loc_len
Specifies the significant length of the
.I m3_loc
member.
.TP
.I m3_rem
Specifies the remote endpoint address to which the SCTP association will connect to communicate with
the remote SGP.  This can be any address form that can be used by the
.BR T_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive for SCTP, see
.BR tpi_sctp (7).
.TP
.I m3_rem_len
Specifies the significant length of the
.I m3_rem
member.
.TP
.I m2_ppi
This member specifies the Payload Protocol Identifier (PPI) used in SCTP messages.  When set to zero
(0), the IANA registered PPI for M3UA will be used.
.TP
.I m3_streams
This member specifies the number of outbound SCTP data streams that the ASP will request when
connecting to the associated SGP.  The default value is 32.  It is invalid to form a connection with
less than 2 outbound SCTP data streams (one for management messages and one for MTP-User data).
.TP
.I m3_options
Specifies SGP option flags.  SGP option flags are a logic OR of zero or more of the following flags:
.RS
.TP
.B M3UA_SGP_DYNAMIC
This flag specifies that the SGP requires dynamic registration.  If this flag is absent, it
specifies that the SGP requires static configuration.
.RE
.TP
.I m3_version
Specifies the version of the M3UA protocol used by the SG.  When not specified, it is set to zero
(0).  Otherise, the value can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B M3UA_VERSION_RFC3332
Specifies that the protocol should adhere strictly to Version 1 of the M3UA protocol as specified in
RFC 3332.
.[
rfc3332
.]
.PD 0
.TP
.B M3UA_VERSION_TS129202
Specifies that the protocol should adhere strictly to Version 1 of the M3UA protocol as modified by
ETSI TS 129 202.
.[
ts 129 202
.]
.TP
.B M3UA_VERSION_TS102142
Specifies that the protocol should adhere strictly to Version 1 of the M3UA protocol as modified by
ETSI TS 102 142.
.[
ts 102 142
.]
.TP
.B M3UA_VERSION_RFC4666
Specifies that the protocol should adhere strictly to Version 1 of the M3UA protocol as specified in
RFC 4666.
.[
rfc4666
.]
.PD
.RE
.\"
.SS M3UA_AS_IOCGCONFIG
.PP
This input-output control is responsible for retrieving information associated with a specific lower
multiplex SCTP association.
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.B m3ua_sgp
structure.  The
.B m3ua_sgp
structure is defined in the
.RB < sys/m3ua_ioctl.h >
header file and is formatted as described above.
.PP
Information can be retrieved by specifying one of the
.IR m3_index ", " m3_sgid " or " m3_sg_clei
members as follows:
.TP
.I m3_index
When retrieving by multiplexer identifier, the
.I m3_index
member is set to the non-zero multiplexer identifier that was returned from a
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
operation used to link the lower Stream.  When not retreiving by multiplexer identifier,
.I m3_index
will be set to zero (0).
.TP
.I m3_sgid
When retreiving by SG identifier, the
.I m3_sgid
member is set to the non-zero SG identifier from 1 to 4096.  When not retrieving by SG identifier,
.I m3_sgid
will be set to zero (0).
.TP
.I m3_sg_clei
When retrieving by SG CLEI, the
.I m3_sg_clei
member is set to the non-null ascii SG CLEI string.  When not retrieving by SG CLEI,
.I m3_sg_clei
will be set to a null string.
.PP
The driver locates the SGP configuration from the identifiers specified and returns all information
associated with the SGP in the
.B m3ua_sgp
structure.
.\"
.SS M3UA_AS_IOCLCONFIG
.PP
This input-output control lists SGP Stream configurations.
.I arg
is either a pointer to a
.B m3ua_sgp_list
structure, or NULL.  The
.B m3ua_sgp_list
structure is defined in the
.RB < sys/m3ua_ioctl.h >
header file and is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct m3ua_sgp_list {
    int m3_sgp_num;
    struct m3ua_sgp m3_sgp_list[0];
    /* followed by M3UA SGP configurations */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B m3ua_sgp_list
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I m3_sgp_num
This member contains the number of elements in the array of
.B m3ua_sgp
structures in the
.I m3_sgp_list
member below.  This member is not altered by a successful input-output control operation.
.TP
.I m3_sgp_array
This member is an array of
.B m3ua_sgp
structures.  The number of elements in the array is specified by the
.B m3_sgp_num
member.  This member is not altered by a successful input-output control operation; however,
elements of the array are altered by the input-output control operation, without examination.
.PP
This input-output control returns zero (0) or a postive number on success and minus one (-1) on
failure.  When successful, the zero (0) or positive number returned is the current number of SGP
configurations with information available for retrieval.  When passed a NULL
.I arg
value, this return value can be used to size the
.B m3ua_sgp_list
structure for a subsequent input-output operation.  Note, however, that the number of routing keys
available for information retrieval may change, and the return value form a subsequent operation
should be checked to ensure that complete information has been obtained.
.PP
Upon successful return with a non-NULL
.I arg
value, the driver will have populated up to
.I m3_sgp_num
elements in the array
.I m3_sgp_list
with the SGP configuration of available SGP Streams in arbitrary order.  If fewer elements were
populated than were available, the return value from the input-output control operation will be
less than
.IR m3_sgp_num .
.\"
.SS M3UA_AS_IOCSROUTE
.PP
This input-output control takes as an argument a pointer to a buffer area into which to place the
configuration information.
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.B m3ua_key
structure.  The
.B m3ua_key
structure is defined in the
.RB < sys/m3ua_ioctl.h >
header file and is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct m3ua_key {
    unsigned int m3_sgid;
    char m3_sg_clei[M3UA_CLEI_MAX];
    unsigned int m3_tmode;
    unsigned int m3_rc;
    unsigned int m3_na;
    unsigned int m3_loc_addrs;
    unsigned int m3_rem_addrs;
    struct mtp_addr m3_addrs[0];
    /* followed by MTP addresses */
};

#define M3UA_AS_TMODE_NONE          0
#define M3UA_AS_TMODE_OVERRIDE      1
#define M3UA_AS_TMODE_LOADSHARE     2
#define M3UA_AS_TMODE_BROADCAST     3
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B m3ua_key
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I m3_sgid
This member identifies the SG to which the routing key applies.  The SG identifier is a local
cardinal number from 1 to 4096 that identifies the SG.  This number also corresponds to the minor
device number on the
.B m3ua-as
driver that can be opened to obtain an instances of the AS associated with this SG.  When the
input-output control is called on a Stream that was opened on a non-zero minor device number, the
.I m3_sgid
member does not need to specified, can be populated with zero (0), and will be ignored by the
driver (the SG identifier associated with the minor device number will be used instead).
Also, if the
.I m3_sg_clei
below is specified, the
.I m3_sgid
can be set to zero (0) and the driver will use the
.I m3_sg_clei
to locate the SG.
.TP
.I m3_sg_clei
This member identifies the SG to which the routing key applies.  The SG CLEI is an ascii
string of up to
.B M3UA_CLEI_MAX
characters.  When unspecified, the
.I m3_sg_clei
field contains a null string.
.TP
.I m3_tmode
This member contains the traffic mode the will be used in the ASP Active message in communications
with an SGP for this SG.  The
.I m3_tmode
member can contain one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B M3UA_TMODE_NONE
.PD 0
No traffic mode parameter will be included in the ASP Active message, however, the ASP will still
respond to \(lqAlternate ASP Active in AS\(rq NOTIFY messages.
.TP
.B M3UA_TMODE_OVERRIDE
The traffic mode in the ASP Active message will be Override.
.TP
.B M3UA_TMODE_LOADSHARE
The traffic mode in the ASP Active message will be Loadshare.
.TP
.B M3UA_TMODE_BROADCAST
The traffic mode in the ASP Active message will be Broadcast.  Note that
ETSI TS 102 142
.[
ts 102 142
.]
does not support broadcast traffic mode, but
RFC 3332,
.[
rfc3332
.]
ETSI TS 129 202
.[
ts 129 202
.]
and
RFC 4666
.[
rfc4666
.]
do.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I m3_rc
This member contains the Routing Context value (32-bit integer value) that will be used for this
routing key in communications with an SGP for this SG.
.TP
.I m3_na
This member contains the Network Appearance associated with the Routing Key.  If no network
appearance values are maintained, the field can contain zero (0).  Assignment of network appearance
numbers is a local matter.
.TP
.I m3_loc_addrs
This member contains the number of local MTP addresses contained in the
.I m3_addrs
list described below.  This are the MTP addresses to which an MTP-User must bind using the
.BR MTP_BIND_REQ (7)
primtive to obtain this routing key.
.TP
.I m3_rem_addrs
This member contains the number of remote MTP addresses contained in the
.I m3_addrs
list described below.  This is the MTP addresses to which an MTP-User must connect using the
.BR MTP_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive to obtain this routing key.  When the remote MTP address is not significant (the routing
key corresponds to any remote address), this member will be set to zero (0).
.TP
.I m3_addrs
This member is a variable length array of
.B mtp_addr
structures containing MTP addresses.  The first
.I m3_loc_addrs
addresses are local addresses.  The remaining
.I m3_rem_addrs
addresses are remote addresses.
.\"
.SS M3UA_AS_IOCCROUTE
.PP
This input-output control changes a local Routing Key to Routing Context mapping for a specified set
of MTP addresses.
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.B m3ua_key
structure (defined above).
.PP
The
.I m3_sgid
or
.I m3_sg_clei
members must be specified to locate the SG for which the routing key entry will be changed.  The
remaining members of the
.B m3ua_key
structure define the new routing key to routing context mapping.  Either the
.I m3_rc
value, or the routing key defined by the
.IR m3_na ", " m3_loc " and " m3_rem
members, must exist in the mapping table.
.\"
.SS M3UA_AS_IOCXROUTE
.PP
This input-output control removes a local Routing Key to Routing Context mapping for a specified set
of MTP addresses.
.I arg
is a pointer to a
.B m3ua_key
structure (defined above).
.PP
The
.I m3_sgid
or
.I m3_sg_clei
members must be specified to locate the SG for which the routing key will be deleted.  The remaining
members of the
.B m3ua_key
structure identify the routing key mapping to be deleted.  Either the
.I m3_rc
value, or the routing key defined by the
.IR m3_na ", " m3_loc " and " m3_rem
members, must exist in the mapping table.
.I m3_rc
can be set to zero (0) to specify a routing key that matches any RC value but which matches the
.IR m3_na ", " m3_loc " and " m3_rem
members.  When
.I m3_rc
is specified a non-zero, the RC value must exist in the table and the
.IR m3_na ", " m3_loc " and " m3_rem
members are ignored.
.\"
.SS M3UA_AS_IOCGROUTE
.PP
This input-output control lists local Routing Key to Routing Context mappings.
.I arg
is either a pointer to a
.B m3ua_key_list
structure, or
.BR NULL .
The
.B m3ua_key_list
structure is defined in the
.RB < sys/m3ua_ioctl.h >
header file and is formatted as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct m3ua_key_list {
    int m3_key_num;
    struct m3ua_key m3_key_list[0];
    /* followed by M3UA keys */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The
.B m3ua_key_list
structure contains the following members:
.TP
.I m3_key_num
This member contains the number of elements in the array of
.B m3ua_key
structures in the
.I m3_key_list
member below.  This member is not altered by a successful input-output control operation.
.TP
.I m3_key_list
This member is an array of
.B m3ua_key
structures.  The number of elements in the array is specified by the
.I m3_key_num
member.  This member is not altered by a successful input-output control oepration; however,
elements of the array are altered by the input-output control operation, without examination.
.PP
The input-output control returns a zero (0) or positive number on success and minus one (-1) on
failure.  When successful, the zero (0) or positive number returned is the current number of
routing keys with information available for retrieval.  When passed a
.B NULL
.I arg
value, this return value can be used to size the
.B m3ua_key_list
structure for a subsequent input-output operation.  Note, however, that the number of routing keys
available for information retrieval may change, and the return value from the subsequent operation
should be checked to ensure that complete information has been obtained.
.PP
Upon sucessful return with a non-NULL
.I arg
value, the driver will have populated up to
.I m3_key_num
elements in the array
.I m3_key_list
with the routing key and routing context context of available routing keys in arbitrary order.  If
fewer elements were populated than were available, the return value from the input-output control
oepration will be less than
.IR m3_key_num .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B M3UA-AS
driver only directly supports the ASP-side of the M3UA protocol.  For the SG-side of the protocol,
see
.BR m3ua-sg (4).
For a peer to peerprotocol, see
.BR m3ua-sp (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The
.B M3UA-AS
driver is implemented as a
.I STREAMS
multiplexing driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/m3ua-sg\fIn
The
.IR n 'th
SG device.
.TP
.B /dev/streams/m3ua-sg/\fIn
The
.IR n 'th
SG device.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.RB < ss7/mtp.h >
Header file that defines the
.BR mtp (7)
interface used by signalling link streams opened on the upper multiplex.
.TP
.RB < ss7/mtp_ioctl.h >
Header file that defines the
.BR mtp_ioctl (7)
input-output controls used by signalling link streams opened on the upper multiplex.
.TP
.RB < ss7/mtpi.h >
Header file that defines the
.BR mtpi (7)
interface used by signalling link streams opened on the upper multiplex.
.TP
.RB < ss7/mtp_ioctl.h >
Header file that defines the
.BR mtp_ioctl (7)
input-output controls used by signalling link streams opened on the upper multiplex.
.TP
.RB < sys/m3ua_ioctl.h >
Header file that defines the
.BR m3ua (4)
input-output controls used by control streams opened on the upper multiplex.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR m3ua (4),
.BR SIGTRAN (4),
.BR m3ua_ioctl (4),
.BR m3ua_as_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B m3ua-as
driver has no known bugs.  Report problems to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
.PP
The
.B @PACKAGE@
package has been tested with a wide array of production Linux distributions, kernels and target
architectures, and is considered production grade by The OpenSS7 Project.  At the time of release,
the
.B @PACKAGE@
package had no known bugs.  Problems can be reported to
.RB < bugs@openss7.org >.
Please, however, use the included
.B send-pr
script for generating actionable problem reports.  Please see the file \(lqPROBLEMS\(rq in the
release for problem reporting guidelines.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B M3UA-AS
is compatible with implementations based on RFC 3332,
.[
rfc3332
.]
ETSI TS 129 202,
.[
ts 129 202
.]
ETSI TS 102 142,
.[
ts 102 142
.]
and
RFC 4666,
.[
rfc4666
.]
with the following compatibility considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.B M3UA-AS
driver supports dynamic registration of Routing Keys.
.IP ""
ETSI TS 102 142
.[
ts 102 142
.]
does not permit use of dynamic registration.  Applications using the M3UA-AS driver in an ETSI TS
102 142 environment should not invoke the dynamic registration procedures and should configure the
SG for appropriate operation using input-output controls.  Setting a
.I version
of
.B TS102142
suppresses the ability to request dynamic registration and causes the driver to return
\(lqUnsupported Message Class\(rq to any RKMM class message received.  All keys specified must have
a non-zero RC value.
.IP \(em
ETSI TS 102 142
.[
ts 102 142
.]
does not suport the broadcast AS traffic mode.  When
.I version
is set to
.BR TS102142 ,
the Broadcast traffic mode is treated as an unsupported value.
.IP \(em
ETSI TS 102 142
.[
ts 102 142
.]
will not support routing keys of finer granularity than a point code.  This means that when
.I version
is set to
.BR TS102142 ,
the Service Indicator values in all MTP addresses will be ignored.
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "RFC 3332" ,
.[
rfc3332
.]
.IR "ETSI TS 129 202" ,
.[
ts 129 202
.]
.IR "ETSI TS 102 142" ,
.[
ts 102 142
.]
.IR "RFC 4666" ,
.[
rfc4666
.]
.IR "ETSI TS 102 381" .
.[
ts 102 381
.]
.PP
Conformance to
.IR "ETSI TS 102 142"
.[
ts 102 142
.]
per tests specified by
.IR "ETSI TS 102 381"
.[
ts 102 381
.]
is validated using the
.BR test-m3ua_as (8)
test case executable and the package
.B autotest
test suite.
.PP
Conformance to
.IR "RFC 3332"
.[
rfc3332
.]
and
.IR "RFC 4666"
.[
rfc4666
.]
per tests specified by
.IR "draft-anshoo-test-spec-m3ua-01" ,
.[
testm3ua
.]
is validated using the
.BR test-m3ua (8)
test case executable and the package
.B autotest
test suite.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M3UA-AS
driver is new for
@PACAKGE_TITLE@
@VERSION@.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
