'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: SIGTRAN.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2007/01/26 21:54:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/01/26 21:54:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: SIGTRAN.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/01/26 21:54:30  brian
.\" - working up AS drivers and docs
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/17 11:55:36  brian
.\" - copied files into new packages from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/06/13 10:25:49  brian
.\" - updated references for IUA, DUA, M2PA
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/27 09:34:40  brian
.\" - updated references
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/05 09:43:02  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SIGTRAN 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B SIGTRAN
\- OpenSS7 Signalling Transport (SIGTRAN) Devices
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.HP
.BI "int " sigtran_stream " = open(" sigtran_device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS "SS7 Devices"
.PP
.B SIGTRAN
.[
rfc2719
.]
provides the following SS7 pseudo-device drivers:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR bua (4)
.I SS7 BICC User Adaptation Layer (BUA)
protocol layer transporting and distributing the services provided by
.BR bicc (4)
and providing an IO Control interface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for BUA-specific management,
.BR bua_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR isua (4)
.I SS7 ISUP User Adaptation Layer (ISUA)
.[
isua-00
.]
protocol layer transporting and distributing the services provided by
.BR isup (4)
and providing an IO Control interface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for ISUA-specific management,
.BR isua_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR tua (4)
.I SS7 TCAP User Adaptation Layer (TUA)
.[
tua-01
.]
protocol layer transporting and distributing the services provided by
.BR tcap (4)
and providing an IO Control interface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for TUA-specific management,
.BR tua_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR sua (4)
.I SS7 SCCP User Adaptation Layer (SUA)
.[
rfc3868
.]
protocol layer transporting and distributing the services provided by
.BR sccp (4)
and providing an IO Control interface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for SUA-specific management,
.BR sua_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR m3ua (4)
.I SS7 MTP3 User Adaptation Layer (M3UA)
.[
rfc3332
.]
.[
ts 102 142
.]
.[
rfc4666
.]
protocol layer transporting and distributing the services provided by
.BR mtp (4)
and providing an IO Control interface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for M3UA-specific management,
.BR m3ua_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR m2ua (4)
.I SS7 MTP2 User Adaptation Layer (M2UA)
.[
rfc3331
.]
.[
ts 102 141
.]
protocol layer transporting and distributing the services provided by
.BR sl (4)
and providing an IO Control interface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for M2UA-specific management,
.BR m2ua_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SS "SS7 Modules"
.PP
.B SIGTRAN
provides the following SS7 modules:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR m2pa (4)
.I SS7 MTP2 User Peer-to-Peer Adaptation Layer (M2PA)
.[
M2PArfc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SS "ISDN Devices"
.PP
.B SIGTRAN
provides the following ISDN pseudo-device drivers:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR iua (4)
.I ISDN Q.921 User Adaptation Layer (IUA)
.[
IUArfc
.]
protocol layer transporting and distributing the services provided by
.BR dl (4),
and providing an IO Control Interface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for IUA-specific management,
.BR iua_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR dua (4)
.I DPNSS/DASS 2 Extentions to the IUA Protocol (DUA)
.[
DUArfc
.]
protocol layer transporting and distributing the services provided by
.BR dua (4),
and providing an IO Control Itnerface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for DUA-specific management,
.BR dua_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR v5ua (4)
.I V5 User Adaptation Layer (V5UA)
.[
V5UA-RFC
.]
protocol layer transporting and distributing the services provided by
.BR v5 (4),
and providing an IO Control Interface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for V5UA-specific management,
.BR v5ua_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR gr303ua (4)
.I GR-303 User Adaptation Layer (GR303UA)
.[
gr303ua00
.]
protocol layer transporting and distributing the services provided by
.BR gr303 (4),
and providing an IO Control Interface,
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
for GR303UA-specific management,
.BR gr303ua_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH FILES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/bua ,
.IR /dev/isua ,
.IR /dev/tua ,
.IR /dev/tua-tpi-cl ,
.IR /dev/tua-tpi-co ,
.IR /dev/sua ,
.IR /dev/sua-npi ,
.IR /dev/sua-tpi-cl ,
.IR /dev/sua-tpi-co ,
.IR /dev/m3ua ,
.IR /dev/m3ua-npi ,
.IR /dev/m3ua-tpi-cl ,
.IR /dev/m3ua-tpi-co ,
.IR /dev/m2ua ,
.IR /dev/m2ua-cdi ,
.IR /dev/m2ua-dlpi ,
.IR /dev/iua ,
.IR /dev/v5ua ,
.IR /dev/gr303ua .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR isdnconfd (8),
.BR SS7 (4),
.BR ISDN (4),
.BR MG (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
This manpage was updated @PACKAGE_DATE@ for
.B @PACKAGE@
release
.BR "@VERSION@" .
.PP
Most of the devices and modules listed here do not appear until
.BR strss7-0.8.4 .
.PP
.BR m2pa (4)
first appeared in
.BR strss7-0.8.2 .
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
