'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: sua-as.4.man,v 0.9.2.1 2007/03/09 05:56:25 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/09 05:56:25 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: sua-as.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/03/09 05:56:25  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH SUA-AS 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B sua-as
\- SS7 SCCP User Adaptation Layer (SUA) Application Server (AS)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sccpi.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/sccpi_ioctl.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/sua_ioct.h>
.HP 12
\fBint \fIsua_stream\fB = open(\fB\(lq\fI/dev/sua-sg1\fB\(rq, O_RDWR);
.PD 0
.HP
\fBint \fIsctp_stream\fB = open(\fB\(lq\fI/dev/sctp_t\fB\(rq, O_RDWR);
.HP
\fBint \fImuxid\fB = ioctl(I_PLINK, (intptr_t) \fIsctp_stream\fB);
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The SUA-AS is a multipelxing driver that implements the ASP side of the SUA
.[
rfc3868
.]
protocol.
Streams opened on the upper multipelx provide the
.IR "Signalling Connection Control Part Interface (SCCPI)" ,
.BR sccpi (7).
Streams linked under the lower multiplex provide the SCTP transport interface,
.BR sctp_t (4).
.\"
.SS Configuration
.PP
When the SUA-AS driver is configured, SCTP Streams are opened and linked under the multiplexing
driver. Each SCTP Stream represents an association between a local ASP and a remote Signalling
Gateway Process (SGP) on the same Signalling Gateway (SG).  Input-output ocntrols are used to
configure each lower multiplex Stream.  Once a lower multiplex Stream is configured, the SUA-AS
driver attempts to form an SCTP association with the remote SGP, and to bring each SUA association
into the ASP Up state.  Should the association be dropped, the ASP-SGP relation is moved tot he ASP
Down state and the SUA-AS driver attempts to reconnect the association and bring it to the ASP Up
state and activate all active interfaces.
.PP
Once configured, SCCP Streams can be opened on the upper multiplex.  These SCCP Streams are not
associated with an ASP-SGP association until they are bound or connected.  When the
.BR N_BIND_REQ "(7) or " N_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive is issued, the address contained in the request is composed of an SG identifier, and
either an SCCP address (if the SG supports dynamic configuration), or a Routing Context (if the SG
supports static configuration).  This information is sufficient for the SUA-AS driver to determine
the association (set) and Routing Key that is to be used to register the interface (AS).  When the
.BR N_BIND_REQ "(7) or " N_CONN_REQ (7)
primitive is issued, the registered or assigned Routing Context is used to activate the interface
with each SGP for the remote SG.
.PP
After the SCCP-User has been boun dor connected with
.BR N_BIND_REQ "(7) or " N_CONN_REQ (7)
it can be linked beneath a SCCP-User multiplexing device driver (such as TCAP,
.BR tcap (4)).
.PP
Configuration is performed using an SUA-AS driver configuration utility.  This utility reads a
configuration file used to define the objects necessary for configuration.  The configuration file
contains entries that define ASP-SG relationships as follows:
.TP
.I sgid
An integer number identifying the ASP-SG relation.  This is a number from 1 to 4096.
.TP
.I aspid
The ASPID that is used to comunicated with each remote SGP in the SG.  This ASPID can be null (a
single dash,
.RB ` - ')
indicating that no ASPID is to be used in communication with the remote SGP.  This ASPID corresponds
also to the value zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.TP
.I streams
The number of SCTP streams that will be requested to each SGP in the SG.
.TP
.I local-endpoint
The local endpoint address to which an SCTP association is bound to communicate with the remote SGP.
This can take the form:
\fIhostname\fR[\fB,\fIhostname\fR][\fB:\fIport\fR]
or the form:
\fIipaddress\fR[\fB,\fIipaddress\fR][\fB:\fIservice\fR]
or combinations of hostnames and IP addresses and either port or service.  The special hostname
consisting of a single star,
.RB ` * ',
can be used to indicate a wildcard address.  If the port or service is not specified, then a dynamic
port will be allocated.  If the service is specified as
.BR sua ,
then the SUA well-known port number will be used.
.TP
.I remote-endpoint
The remote endpoint addess to which an SCTP association will connect to communicate with the remote
SG.  This can take the form:
\fIhostname\fR[\fB,\fIhostname\fR][\fB:\fIport\fR]
or the form:
\fIipaddress\fR[\fB,\fIipaddress\fR][\fB:\fIservice\fR]
or combinations of hostnames and IP addresses and either port or service.  If the port or service is
not specified, the SUA well-known port number will be used.
.TP
.I options
Contains a comma separated list of SG options, with no embedded whitespace.  The following options
are defined:
.RS
.TP
.B dynamic
When included in the options, this keyword specifies that the SG requires dynamic registration.  If
this option is not included, the SG requires static registration.
.RE
.PP
The configuration utility, reads this configuration file and performs the following steps for each
entry in the file:
.IP 1. \w'0.\(em'u
The utility opens an SCTP association by opening the
.B /dev/sctp_t
device.
.IP 2.
The utility opens a Stream on the SUA-AS driver using the
.B /dev/sua-as
device and links the Stream for the SCTP association under the SUA-AS multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK (7)
or
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control.
.IP 3.
The utility uses a single specialized SUA-AS input-output control to associate the lower multiplex
Stream with an SG (and local ASP).  The input-output control takes the information provided in the
configuration file line entry, and the mulltiplexer identifier returned from the
.IR I_LINK (7)
or
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control operation.  The SUA-AS driver then creates a new ASP object if necessary and
completes the SG object information as part of the lower multiplex Stream private structure.  The
SUA-AS driver also binds and connects the SCTP association and attempts to bring the ASP to the ASP
Up state with the remote SG.
.IP 4.
The steps 1 through 3 above are repeated for each entry in the configuration file.
.IP 5.
The utility can also open and attach SCCP Streams and link them under an SCCP-User multiplexing
driver.
