'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=100
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ua_as_ioctl.4.man,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-29 01:52:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 01:52:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ua_as_ioctl.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2008-04-29 01:52:15  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/03/14 00:54:27  brian
.\" - manpages for check maintenance target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/02/10 22:32:05  brian
.\" - working up sigtran drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2007/02/03 03:05:10  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH UA-AS-IOCTL 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B ua_as_ioctl
\- IO controls for SIGTRAN UA-AS devices
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/ua_as_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "struct strioctl *" arg ;
.HP
.BI "int " ua_as_stream " = open(" ua_as_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" ua_as_stream ", " \fRI_STR\fI ", " arg );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B UA-AS-IOCTL
is a definition of the managed object model for the
.BR SIGTRAN (4)
UA-AS  drivers using the input-output control framework defined in
.BR lmi_ioctl (4).
.\"
.SS "Layer Management Interface"
.PP
All
.BR SIGTRAN (4)
UA-AS drivers provide a master control Stream as well as local control Streams.  The master and
local control Stream can use a layer management service primitive interface defined for managing
.BR SIGTRAN (4)
UA-AS driver described in
.BR ua_as_lm (7).
.\"
.SS "Object Model"
.PP
.BR "Figure 1" ,
below, illustrates the object model.
The illustration is simpified in that the AS object has one ASP state for each associated SGP and
one overall AS state, and the SGP object has on ASP state for each associated AS.  the AS-SGP
relation is a many-to-many relation bound by the ASP-SG relation.
.PP
.ce 50
\fC\s-1\
     UA-AS Multiplexing Driver    UA-AS Module\ 
  ________   ________   ________    ________  \ 
 |        | |        | |        |  |        | \ 
 |  User  | |  User  | | Master |  |  User  | \ 
 | Stream | | Stream | | Stream |  | Stream | \ 
 |________| |________| |________|  |________| \ 
  ___|__________|__________|_____   ___|____  \ 
 |  _|__        |         _|__  |  |  _|__  | \ 
 | |    |       |        |    | |  | |    | | \ 
 | | LM |       |        | LM | |  | | LM | | \ 
 | |____|      _|__      |____| |  | |____| | \ 
 | |    |     |    |            |  | |    | | \ 
 | | UP |     | UP |            |  | | DF | | \ 
 | |____|     |____|            |  | |____| | \ 
 |  _|__       _|__             |  |  _|__  | \ 
 | |    |     |    |            |  | |    | | \ 
 | | AS |     | AS |            |  | | UP | | \ 
 | |____|     |____|            |  | |____| | \ 
 |   | _________|               |  |  _|__  | \ 
 |  _||_                  ____  |  | |    | | \ 
 | |    |                |    | |  | | AS | | \ 
 | | SP |_______         | DF | |  | |____| | \ 
 | |____|      _|__      |____| |  | |    | | \ 
 |            |    |            |  | | SP | | \ 
 |            | SG |            |  | |____| | \ 
 |            |____|            |  | |    | | \ 
 |     ________|| |________     |  | | SG | | \ 
 |  __|_       _|__       _|__  |  | |____| | \ 
 | |    |     |    |     |    | |  | |    | | \ 
 | | GP |     | GP |     | GP | |  | | GP | | \ 
 | |____|     |____|     |____| |  | |____| | \ 
 |  _|__       _|__       _|__  |  |  _|__  | \ 
 | |    |     |    |     |    | |  | |    | | \ 
 | | TP |     | TP |     | TP | |  | | TP | | \ 
 | |____|     |____|     |____| |  | |____| | \ 
 |___|__________|__________|____|  |___|____| \ 
  ___|____   ___|____   ___|____    ___|____  \ 
 |        | |        | |        |  |        | \ 
 |  SCTP  | |  SCTP  | |  SCTP  |  |  SCTP  | \ 
 | Stream | | Stream | | Stream |  | Stream | \ 
 |________| |________| |________|  |________| \ 
\s+1\fP
.PP
.ce
\fBFigure 1.\fR \- \fIAS Multiplexing Driver and Module Example\fR
.PP
UA-AS provides for management of a number of managed objects common to all
.BR SIGTRAN (4)
UA-AS protocol components as follows:
.TP
.B UA_AS_OBJ_TYPE_DF
A Default (DF) object instance corresponds to the the collectin of system-wide default options for
other objects, and is directly associated with a master control Stream (and LM object).  Only one
instance of the DF object exists on a system for each UA-AS module or driver.
.TP
.B UA_AS_OBJ_TYPE_LM
A Layer Management (LM) object instance corresponds to an instance of a local management interface
provided by the UA-AS module or driver.  LM objects are directly associated with SP objects that
they manage as well as the control Stream that implements the local management interface.
.TP
.B UA_AS_OBJ_TYPE_UP
A User Part (UP) object instance corresponds to an instance of a local user-provider interface
provided by the UA-AS module or driver.  UP objects are directly associated with the AS object that
provides them service as well as the user Stream that implements the user-provider interface.
.TP
.B UA_AS_OBJ_TYPE_AS
An Application Server (AS) object instance corresponds to an instance of a local user-provider
interface served by the UA-AS module or driver.  AS objects are associated with ASP objects that
provide them service as well as the UP object that represents particulars about the user-provider
interface, and the user Stream that implements the user-provider interface.
.TP
.B UA_AS_OBJ_TYPE_SP
An Application Server Process (SP) object instance corresponds to an instance of a local ASP.  ASP
objects are associated with AS objects served by the ASP, and associated with SG objects that
provide service to the ASP.
(Note that M2UA
.[
rfc3331
.]
.[
ts 102 141
.]
does not support multiple SGs per ASP serving the same AS.)
Attributes of the SP object are attributes of the local ASP.
.TP
.B UA_AS_OBJ_TYPE_SG
A Signalling Gateway (SG) object instance corresponds to an instance of a remote SG system known to
the UA-AS driver or module.  SG objects are associated with GP objects that represent the SGP
contained by the SG, and associated with an SP object that represents the local ASP which is
provided service by the remote SG.
(Note that M2UA
.[
rfc3331
.]
.[
ts 102 141
.]
does not support multiple SGPs per SG.)
.TP
.B UA_AS_OBJ_TYPE_GP
A Signalling Gateway Process (GP) object instance corresponds to an instance of a remote SGP known
to the UA-AS driver or module and is directly associated with an XP object and SCTP Transport
Provider Stream.  Instance attributes of the GP object are known attributes of the remote SGP.
.TP
.B UA_AS_OBJ_TYPE_XP
An SCTP Transport Provider (XP) object instance corresponds to an instance of an SCTP association
used by the UA-AS driver or module.  It is associated with an SCTP Trasnport Provider Stream.
.\"
.SS "Management Attributes"
.PP
Each object has associated with it information in the following categories:
.TP
.I Configuration
All of the primary attributes necessary and sufficient for the creation and linkage of each object.
.TP
.I Options
Options (not necessary for creation) for each object.  All options have defaults that exist in the
DF object.
.TP
.I State
The (dynamic) state of each object.
.TP
.I Statistics
Statistics associated with each object in accordance with an operational measurment model or MIB.
.TP
.I Events
Events associated with each object in accordance with an operational measurement model or MIB.
.TP
.I Controls
Management controls applicable to each object in accordance with a managed object model or MIB.
.PP
Thes categories are described in detail in the sections that follow:
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_config {
    uint type;         /* object type */
    uint id;           /* object id */
    union {
        uint cmd;      /* object command */
        uint count;    /* object count */
        uint num;      /* number of sub-object oids in list */
    };
    /* followed by object-specific config structure and list */
} ua_config_t;

#define UA_GET  0
#define UA_ADD  1
#define UA_CHA  2
#define UA_MOD  3
#define UA_DEL  4

#define UA_AS_IOCGCONFIG        ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|002)      /* ua_config_t */
#define UA_AS_IOCSCONFIG        ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|003)      /* ua_config_t */
#define UA_AS_IOCTCONFIG        ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|004)      /* ua_config_t */
#define UA_AS_IOCCCONFIG        ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|005)      /* ua_config_t */
#define UA_AS_IOCLCONFIG        ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|021)      /* ua_config_t */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I type
.TP
.I id
.TP
.I cmd
.TP
.I count
.TP
.I num
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCGCONFIG
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCSCONFIG
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCTCONFIG
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCCCONFIG
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCLCONFIG
.\"
.SS Default (DF)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_conf_df {
} ua_conf_df_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
No additional configuration elements are defined.
.PP
.B Identification:
The single DF object has an object identifier of zero (0).
.PP
.B Life-cycle:
Only one DF object exists on a system.  The object is created when the UA-AS module or driver kernel
module loades and is destroyed when the kernel module is unloaded.
.PP
.B Access:
Attributes of the DF object can only be changed by the master control Stream.
Attributes of the DF object can be queried by any Stream.
.\"
.SS Layer Management (LM)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_conf_lm {
    uint spid;         /* ASP that this LM controls */
} ua_conf_lm_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I spid
Specifies the SP object with which this control Stream is associated.
Specifying zero (0) on ADD/MOD will associate the control Stream with an newly created anonymous SP
object.
Specifying zero (0) on GET/CHA/MOD/DEL will select the already associated SP object.
.PP
.B Identification:
An LM object is identified by the device number of the control Stream to which the object
corresponds.
.PP
.B Life-cycle:
Only one master control Stream exists on a system.  The master control Stream is created by opening
a special minor device number on the UA-AS driver, and destroyed when the Stream is closed.
Multiple local control Streams can exist on a system.  Local control Streams are normally created
using the
.IR I_PUSH (7)
or
.IR I_LINK (7)
input-output controls, but may also be created by the master control Stream by creating an LM
object.
.PP
.B Access:
Attributes of the LM object can only be changed by the master control Stream or the local control
Stream that corresponds to the LM object.
Attributes of the LM object can be queried by the master control Stream, its corresponding local
control Stream, or corresponding user Streams.
.\"
.SS User Part (UP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_conf_up {
} ua_conf_up_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
No additional configuration elements are defined.
.PP
.B Identification:
A UP object is identified by the device number of the user Stream to which the object corresponds.
.PP
.B Life-cycle:
A UP object is created when a user Stream is opened on the UA-AS driver or when the UA-AS module is
pushed.  It is destroyed when the user Stream is closed or when the module is popped.
.PP
.B Access:
A UP object can be altered by the master control Stream, the local control Stream for the ASP to
which the UP object corresponds, or by the user Stream to which the UP object corresponds.
Attributes of the UP object can be queried by the master control Stream, its corresponding local
control Stream, or corresponding user Stream.
.\"
.SS Application Server (AS)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_conf_as {
    uint spid;         /* SP identifier */
    /* followed by ua specific link/routing key */
} ua_conf_as_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I spid
Identifies the SP to which this AS is (to be) associated.
When specified as zero (0) either an existing SP associated with the control Stream is specified, or
a new anonymous SP will be created and the issuing Stream made is local control Stream.
.PP
.B Identification:
.\"AS objects are coincident with UP objects and user Streams.  An AS object is identified by the
.\"device number of the user Stream to which the object corresponds.
AS objects are identified with a unique identification number.  However, they can also be identified
by their spid and link/routing key.
.PP
.B Life-cycle:
.\"AS objects exist when an UP object exists, however, they are not necessarily fully specified
.\"(associated with an SP object).  AS objects are destroyed when the corresponding UP object is
.\"destroyed.
AS objects are created by management.  They are destroyed by management, or when the related SP
and SG objects are destroyed by management.
.PP
.B Access:
An AS object can be altered by the master control Stream, the local control Stream for the ASP to
which the AS object corresponds.
.\"corresponds, or by the user Stream to which the AS object corresponds.
Attributes of the AS object can be queried by the master control Stream, its corresponding local
control Stream, or corresponding user Stream.
.\"
.SS Application Server Process (SP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_conf_sp {
    uint sgids[0];
    uint asids[0];
} ua_conf_sp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I sgids
On LIST enumerates the SG objects associated with this SP object by id, empty otherwise.
.TP
.I asids
On LIST enumerates the AS objects associated with this SP object by id, empty otherwise.
.PP
.B Identification:
Public SP objects are identified by their SP identifier.  The SP identifier is a small integer
number that uniquely identifies the SP object within the system.  SP identifiers between 1 and
.I NUM_ASPS
also correspond to minor device numbers on the UA-AS driver.  Anonymous SP objects can exist without
an SP identifier, that is with a zero (0) identifier, when they are associated with a local control
Stream.
.PP
.B Life-cycle:
SP objects are created on demand when an LM or AS object is associated with them, when an SG object
is associated with them, or explicitly using the management interface.  Anonymous SP objects are
destroyed when no longer associated with LM or AS objects, or SG objects.  Public SP objects are
destroyed explicitly using the management interface or when the kernel module unloads.
.PP
.B Access:
Attributes of SP objects can be altered by the master control Stream or the associated local control
Stream.
Attributes of the SP object can be queried by the master control Stream, its corresponding local
control Stream, or corresponding user Streams.
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway (SG)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_conf_sg {
    uint spid;
    uint position;    /* SG position for this ASP (small integer) */
    uint gpids[0];
} ua_conf_sg_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I spid
.TP
.I gpids
.PP
.B Identification:
SG objects are identified by their SG identifier.  The SG identifier is a unique number of no other
significance.
M2UA
.[
rfc3331
.]
.[
ts 102 141
.]
does not support multiple SGs per ASP serving the same AS.  The SG identifier will then, for
convenience, be the same as the SP identifier.
For other UAs where an ASP does not support multiple SG, the SG identifier may, for convenience,
also be set to the SP identifier.  Because of this, an attempt to create an SG object with a zero
(0) id will result in the driver first attempting to allocated an SG identifier the same as the SP
identifier with the SG position in the high order 16 bits, and chosing a unique value greater than
NUM_ASP otherwise.
.PP
.B Life-cycle:
SG objects are created on demand when a GP object is associated with them, or explicitly using the
management interface.  SG objects associated with anonymous SP objects are destroyed when GP objects
are no longer associated with them.  Anonymous SG objects are destroyed when the Public SG objects
are destroyed explicitly using the management interface or when the kernel module unloads.
.PP
.B Access:
Attributes of SG objects can be altered by the master control Stream or the associated local control
Stream.
Attributes of the SG object can be queried by the master control Stream, its corresponding local
control Stream, or corresponding user Streams.
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway Process (GP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_conf_gp {
    uint sgid;         /* SG to which this SGP belongs. */
    uint position;     /* SG position for this SGP (small integer) */
} ua_conf_gp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I sgid
.TP
.I position
.PP
.B Identification:
.\"GP objects are coincident with XP objects.  GP objects are identified by the same identifier as the
.\"corresponding XP object.
GP objects are identified by a unique identification number.  However, they can also be identified
by their sgid and position.
.PP
.B Life-cycle:
.\"GP objects exist when an XP object exists, however, they are not necessarily fully specified
.\"(associated with an SG object).  GP objects are destroyed when the corresponding XP object is
.\"destroyed.
GP objects are created by management.  They are destroyed by management, or when the related SG and
XP objects are destroyed by management.
.PP
.B Access:
A GP object can be altered by the control Stream to which the XP object corresponds, or by the SCTP
transport provider Stream.
Attributes of the GP object can be queried by the master control Stream, its corresponding local
control Stream, or corresponding user Streams.
.\"
.SS SCTP Transport Provider (XP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_conf_xp {
    uint gpid;         /* SGP to which this XP connects */
    uint sgid;         /* SG to which this SGP belongs. */
    uint position;     /* SG position for this SGP (small integer) */
} ua_conf_xp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I gpid
.TP
.I sgid
.TP
.I position
.PP
.B Identification:
An XP object is identified by the lower multiplex identifier of the linked or pushed SCTP transport
Stream.  In the case of pushing, the XP object is anonymous and has a zero (0) identifier.
.PP
.B Life-cycle:
An XP object is created when an SCTP transport Stream is linked under the UA-AS multiplexing driver
or pushed beneath the UA-AS module.  It is destroyed when unlinked from the UA-AS multiplexing
driver or the UA-AS module is popped.
After linking, an XP object must be created by management to associate it with a GP object.
Unlinking will automatically disassociate the XP object from the GP object and destroy the XP
object.
.PP
.B Access:
An XP object can be altered by the control Stream to which it corresponds.  The control Stream is
the Stream that performed the
.IR I_PUSH (7),
.IR I_LINK (7)
or
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control operation.
Attributes of the XP object can be queried by the master control Stream, its corresponding local
control Stream, or corresponding user Streams.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_option {
    uint type;
    uint id;
    /* followed by object-specific option structure */
} ua_option_t;

#define UA_AS_IOCGOPTIONS       ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|000)      /* ua_option_t */
#define UA_AS_IOCSOPTIONS       ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|001)      /* ua_option_t */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I type
.TP
.I id
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCGOPTIONS
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCSOPTIONS
.\"
.SS Default (DF)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_opt_conf_df {
    struct ua_opt_conf_lm lm;   /* LM defaults */
    struct ua_opt_conf_up up;   /* UP defaults */
    struct ua_opt_conf_as as;   /* AS defaults */
    struct ua_opt_conf_sp sp;   /* SP defaults */
    struct ua_opt_conf_sg sg;   /* SG defaults */
    struct ua_opt_conf_gp gp;   /* GP defaults */
    struct ua_opt_conf_xp xp;   /* XP defaults */
} ua_opt_conf_df_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I lm
.TP
.I up
.TP
.I as
.TP
.I sp
.TP
.I sg
.TP
.I gp
.TP
.I xp
.\"
.SS Layer Management (LM)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_opt_conf_lm {
} ua_opt_conf_lm_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
No options are defined.
.\"
.SS User Part (UP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_opt_conf_up {
    struct lmi_option options;  /* protocol variant and options */
    uint max_sdu;      /* maximum sdu size */
    uint opt_sdu;      /* optimal sdu size */
    uint max_cdata;    /* maximum amount of connection data */
    uint max_ddata;    /* maximum amount of disconnection data */
    uint max_esdu;     /* maximum esdu size */
    uint testab;       /* duration of establish timer (TS 102 141) */
} ua_opt_conf_up_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I options
.TP
.I max_sdu
.TP
.I opt_sdu
.TP
.I max_cdata
.TP
.I max_ddata
.TP
.I max_esdu
.TP
.I testab
.\"
.SS Application Server (AS)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_opt_conf_as {
    uint tmode;        /* traffic mode */
    uint loadgrp;      /* load group */
    uint loadsel;      /* load selection */
    uint tack;         /* duration of ack timer */
    uint tbeat;        /* duration of heartbeat time */
} ua_opt_conf_as_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I tmode
.TP
.I loadgrp
.TP
.I loadsel
.TP
.I tack
.TP
.I tbeat
.\"
.SS Application Server Process (SP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_opt_conf_sp {
    struct lmi_option options;  /* Protocol variant and options */
    uint aspid;        /* External UA ASP Identifier */
    uint tack;         /* duration of ack timer */
    uint tbeat;        /* duration of heartbeat timer */
    uint tidle;        /* duration of idle timer */
} ua_opt_conf_sp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I options
.TP
.I aspid
.TP
.I tack
.TP
.I tbeat
.TP
.I tidle
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway (SG)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_opt_conf_sg {
    struct lmi_option options;  /* protocol variant and options */
    uint tmode;        /* traffic mode for sg */
} ua_opt_conf_sg_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I options
.TP
.I tmode
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway Process (GP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_opt_conf_gp {
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
No options are defined.
.\"
.SS SCTP Transport Provider (XP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_opt_conf_xp {
    uint ppi;          /* payload protocol identifier */
} ua_opt_conf_xp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I ppi
.\"
.\"
.SH STATE
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_statem {
    uint type;         /* object type */
    uint id;           /* object id */
    uint flags;        /* object flags */
    union {
        uint state;    /* object state (output) */
        uint numb;     /* sub-state structures available (input) */
    };
    /* followed by object-specific state structure */
} ua_statem_t;

#define UA_AS_IOCGSTATEM        ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|006)      /* ua_statem_t */
#define UA_AS_IOCCMRESET        ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|007)      /* ua_statem_t */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I type
.TP
.I id
.TP
.I flags
.TP
.I state
.TP
.I numb
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCGSTATEM
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCCMRESET
.\"
.SS Default (DF)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_statem_df {
} ua_statem_df_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS Layer Management (LM)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_statem_lm {
} ua_statem_lm_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
No additional state variables are defined.
.\"
.SS User Part (UP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_statem_up {
} ua_statem_up_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
No additional state variables are defined.
.\"
.SS Application Server (AS)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_statem_as_sg {
    uint type;         /* object type AS or SG */
    uint id;           /* object identifier */
    uint state;        /* current AS state */
} ua_statem_as_sg_t;

typedef struct ua_statem_as_gp {
    uint type;         /* object type AS or GP */
    uint id;           /* object identifier */
    uint state;        /* current AS state */
} ua_statem_as_gp_t;

typedef struct ua_statem_as {
    struct ua_statem sg_list[0];
    struct ua_statem gp_list[0];
} ua_statem_as_t;

/* AS State */
#define AS_DOWN         0
#define AS_WACK_RREQ    1
#define AS_WACK_DREQ    2
#define AS_INACTIVE     3
#define AS_WACK_ASPAC   4
#define AS_WACK_ASPIA   5
#define AS_ACTIVE       7
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I sg_list
.TP
.I gp_list
.\"
.SS Application Server Process (SP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_statem_sp_as {
    uint asid;         /* AS object identifier */
    uint state;        /* current overall AS state */
} ua_statem_sp_as_t;

typedef struct ua_statem_sp {
    struct ua_statem as_list[0];
} ua_statem_sp_t;

/* ASP State */
#define ASP_DOWN        0
#define ASP_WACK_ASPUP  1
#define ASP_WACK_ASPDN  2
#define ASP_UP          3
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I as_list
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway (SG)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_statem_sg_gp {
    uint type;         /* SG or GP */
    uint gpid;         /* object identifier */
    uint state;        /* current GP state */
} ua_statem_sg_gp_t;

typedef struct ua_statem_sg {
    struct ua_statem gp_list[0];
    struct ua_statem as_list[0];
} ua_statem_sg_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I gp_list
.TP
.I as_list
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway Process (GP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_statem_gp {
    struct ua_statem sg_list[0];
    struct ua_statem as_list[0];
} ua_statem_gp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I sg_list
.TP
.I as_list
.\"
.SS SCTP Transport Provider (XP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_statem_xp {
} ua_statem_xp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH STATISTICS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_stats {
    uint type;         /* object type */
    uint id;           /* object id */
    uint header;       /* object stats header */
    /* followed by object-specific stats structure */
} ua_stats_t;

#
define UA_AS_IOCGSTATSP        ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|010)      /* ua_stats_t */
#define UA_AS_IOCSSTATSP        ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|011)      /* ua_stats_t */
#define UA_AS_IOCGSTATS         ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|012)      /* ua_stats_t */
#define UA_AS_IOCCSTATS         ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|013)      /* ua_stats_t */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I type
.TP
.I id
.TP
.I header
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCGSTATSP
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCSSTATSP
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCGSTATS
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCCSTATS
.\"
.SS Default (DF)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_stats_df {
} ua_stats_df_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
No statistics are currently defined.
.\"
.SS Layer Management (LM)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_stats_lm {
} ua_stats_lm_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
No statistics are currently defined.
.\"
.SS User Part (UP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_stats_up {
} ua_stats_up_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
No statistics are currently defined.
.\"
.SS Application Server (AS)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_stats_as {
} ua_stats_as_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
No statistics are currently defined.
.\"
.SS Application Server Process (SP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_stats_sp {
} ua_stats_sp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
No statistics are currently defined.
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway (SG)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_stats_gp {
} ua_stats_gp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
No statistics are currently defined.
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway Process (GP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_stats_sg {
} ua_stats_sg_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
No statistics are currently defined.
.\"
.SS SCTP Transport Provider (XP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_stats_xp {
} ua_stats_xp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
No statistics are currently defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH EVENTS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_notify {
    uint type;         /* object type */
    uint id;           /* object id */
    lmi_notify_t notify;        /* notifications */
} ua_notify_t;

#define UA_AS_IOCGNOTIFY        ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|014)      /* ua_notify_t */
#define UA_AS_IOCSNOTIFY        ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|015)      /* ua_notify_t */
#define UA_AS_IOCCNOTIFY        ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|016)      /* ua_notify_t */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I type
.TP
.I id
.TP
.I notify
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCGNOTIFY
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCSNOTIFY
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCCNOTIFY
.\"
.SS Default (DF)
.PP
No events are currently defined.  Use the
.BR ua_as_lm (7)
for protocol specific notifications.
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS Layer Management (LM)
.PP
No events are currently defined.  Use the
.BR ua_as_lm (7)
for protocol specific notifications.
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS User Part (UP)
.PP
No events are currently defined.  Use the
.BR ua_as_lm (7)
for protocol specific notifications.
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS Application Server (AS)
.PP
No events are currently defined.  Use the
.BR ua_as_lm (7)
for protocol specific notifications.
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS Application Server Process (SP)
.PP
No events are currently defined.  Use the
.BR ua_as_lm (7)
for protocol specific notifications.
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway (SG)
.PP
No events are currently defined.  Use the
.BR ua_as_lm (7)
for protocol specific notifications.
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway Process (GP)
.PP
No events are currently defined.  Use the
.BR ua_as_lm (7)
for protocol specific notifications.
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS SCTP Transport Provider (XP)
.PP
No events are currently defined.  Use the
.BR ua_as_lm (7)
for protocol specific notifications.
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTROLS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_mgmt {
    uint type;         /* object type */
    uint id;           /* object id */
    uint cmd;          /* object command */
} ua_mgmt_t;

#define UA_AS_IOCCMGMT          ((UA_AS_IOC_MAGIC<<8)|017)      /* ua_mgmt_t */

#define UA_AS_MGMT_UP                   1
#define UA_AS_MGMT_DOWN                 2
#define UA_AS_MGMT_ACTIVATE             3
#define UA_AS_MGMT_DEACTIVATE           4
#define UA_AS_MGMT_UP_BLOCK             5
#define UA_AS_MGMT_UP_UNBLOCK           6
#define UA_AS_MGMT_ACT_BLOCK            7
#define UA_AS_MGMT_ACT_UNBLOCK          8
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I type
.TP
.I id
.TP
.I cmd
.TP
.B UA_AS_IOCCMGMT
.\"
.SS Default (DF)
.PP
No controls are currently implemented.  Use the
.BR ua_as_lm (7)
service interface instead.
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS Layer Management (LM)
.PP
No controls are currently implemented.  Use the
.BR ua_as_lm (7)
service interface instead.
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS User Part (UP)
.PP
No controls are currently implemented.  Use the
.BR ua_as_lm (7)
service interface instead.
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS Application Server (AS)
.PP
No controls are currently implemented.  Use the
.BR ua_as_lm (7)
service interface instead.
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS Application Server Process (SP)
.PP
No controls are currently implemented.  Use the
.BR ua_as_lm (7)
service interface instead.
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway (SG)
.PP
No controls are currently implemented.  Use the
.BR ua_as_lm (7)
service interface instead.
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway Process (GP)
.PP
No controls are currently implemented.  Use the
.BR ua_as_lm (7)
service interface instead.
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.SS SCTP Transport Provider (XP)
.PP
No controls are currently implemented.  Use the
.BR ua_as_lm (7)
service interface instead.
.nf
\fC\s-1\
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
A general purpose object model for the SIGTRAN UAs was never adopted by IETF.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B THIS MANPAGE IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND NEEDS TO BE COMPLETED.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/ua_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/m2ua ,
.IR /dev/m3ua ,
.IR /dev/sua ,
.IR /dev/tua ,
.IR /dev/isua ,
.IR /dev/bua ,
.IR /dev/iua ,
.IR /dev/dua ,
.IR /dev/v5ua ,
.IR /dev/gr303ua .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR m2ua (4),
.BR m3ua (4),
.BR sua (4),
.BR tua (4),
.BR isua (4),
.BR bua (4),
.BR iua (4),
.BR dua (4),
.BR v5ua (4),
.BR gr303ua (4),
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR isdnconfd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B UA
IO Controls are specific to the
.I OpenSS7
.BR SS7 (4)
stack.
.BR m2ua (4),
.BR m3ua (4),
.BR sua (4),
.BR tua (4),
.BR isua (4),
.BR bua (4),
.BR iua (4),
.BR dua (4),
.BR v5ua (4),
.BR gr303ua (4),
will not appear unitl
.B strss7
release 0.8.4.
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
