'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ua_ioctl.4.man,v 0.9.2.2 2006/12/21 11:00:57 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/12/21 11:00:57 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ua_ioctl.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/12/21 11:00:57  brian
.\" - updated manual pages for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/17 11:55:37  brian
.\" - copied files into new packages from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/05 09:43:05  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH UA-IOCTL 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ua_ioctl
\- SIGTRAN User Adaptation Layer \- IO Controls
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/ua_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "struct strioctl *" arg ;
.HP
.BI "int " ua_stream " = open(" ua_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" ua_stream ", " \fRI_STR\fI ", " arg );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B UA-IOCTL
is a common Layer Management Interface used by
.IR OpenSS7 \(tm
.BR SIGTRAN (4)
drivers and modules for common layer management functions.  These IO controls
are used by performing an
.BR ioctl (2)
system call ala
.BR streamio (7)
.IR I_STR
command on the
.I ua_stream
file descriptor, with one of the IO control commands detailed in
.BR lmi_ioctl (4),
and a local management interface structure in the argument,
.IR arg .
.PP
.B UA-IOCTL
describes the common object model and object-type-specific structures for use
with
.BR lmi_ioctl (4)
IO controls.  This object model is commmon to most, if not all, of the SIGTRAN
User Adataptation Layers.
.SS "Object Model"
.PP
.BR UA-IOCTL
provides of management of a number of
.B UA
objects.  These objects are of a number of types as follows:
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_ASP
Application server process.
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_AS
Application server.
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_SGP
Signalling gateway process.
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_SG
Signalling gateway.
.SS UA_OBJ_ASP
.PP
.PP
.B Configuration
.PP
.B Timers
.PP
.B Options
.PP
.B State
.PP
.B Statistics
.PP
.B Events
.PP
.B Commands
.SS UA_OBJ_AS
.PP
.PP
.B Configuration
.PP
.B Timers
.PP
.B Options
.PP
.B State
.PP
.B Statistics
.PP
.B Events
.PP
.B Commands
.SS UA_OBJ_SG
.PP
.PP
.B Configuration
.PP
.B Timers
.PP
.B Options
.PP
.B State
.PP
.B Statistics
.PP
.B Events
.PP
.B Commands
.SS UA_OBJ_SGP
.PP
.PP
.B Configuration
.PP
.B Timers
.PP
.B Options
.PP
.B State
.PP
.B Statistics
.PP
.B Events
.PP
.B Commands
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.SS Object Types
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_TYPE_LM
layer management
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_TYPE_AS_U
application server (user)
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_TYPE_AS_P
application server (provider)
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_TYPE_SP
signalling process
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_TYPE_SG
signalling gateway
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_TYPE_SPP
signalling process proxy
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_TYPE_ASP
signalling process proxy
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_TYPE_SGP
signalling process proxy
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_TYPE_SS_U
signalling service (user)
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_TYPE_SS_P
signalling service (provider)
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_TYPE_XP_SCTP
transport provider
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_TYPE_XP_TCP
transport provider
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_TYPE_XP_SSCOP
transport provider
.TP
.B UA_OBJ_TYPE_DF
default
.SS Object Attributes
.TP
.B Configuration
.TP
.B Timers
.TP
.B Options
.TP
.B State
.TP
.B Statistics
.TP
.B Events
.TP
.B Commands
.SS Input-Output Controls
.TP
.B UA_IOCSOPTIONS
.TP
.B UA_IOCGCONFIG
.TP
.B UA_IOCSCONFIG
.TP
.B UA_IOCTCONFIG
.TP
.B UA_IOCCCONFIG
.TP
.B UA_IOCGSTATEM
.TP
.B UA_IOCCMRESET
.TP
.B UA_IOCGSTATSP
.TP
.B UA_IOCSSTATSP
.TP
.B UA_IOCGSTATS
.TP
.B UA_IOCCSTATS
.TP
.B UA_IOCGNOTIFY
.TP
.B UA_IOCSNOTIFY
.TP
.B UA_IOCCNOTIFY
.TP
.B UA_IOCCMGMT
.TP
.B UA_IOCCPASS
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
A general purpose object model for the SIGTRAN UAs was never adopted by IETF.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B THIS MANPAGE IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND NEEDS TO BE COMPLETED.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/ua_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/m2ua ,
.IR /dev/m3ua ,
.IR /dev/sua ,
.IR /dev/tua ,
.IR /dev/isua ,
.IR /dev/bua ,
.IR /dev/iua ,
.IR /dev/dua ,
.IR /dev/v5ua ,
.IR /dev/gr303ua .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR m2ua (4),
.BR m3ua (4),
.BR sua (4),
.BR tua (4),
.BR isua (4),
.BR bua (4),
.BR iua (4),
.BR dua (4),
.BR v5ua (4),
.BR gr303ua (4),
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR isdnconfd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B UA
IO Controls are specific to the
.I OpenSS7
.BR SS7 (4)
stack.
.BR m2ua (4),
.BR m3ua (4),
.BR sua (4),
.BR tua (4),
.BR isua (4),
.BR bua (4),
.BR iua (4),
.BR dua (4),
.BR v5ua (4),
.BR gr303ua (4),
will not appear unitl
.B strss7
release 0.8.4.
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
