'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi tw=100
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ua_sg_ioctl.4.man,v 0.9.2.3 2007/03/14 00:54:27 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/14 00:54:27 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: ua_sg_ioctl.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2007/03/14 00:54:27  brian
.\" - manpages for check maintenance target
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2007/02/10 22:32:05  brian
.\" - working up sigtran drivers
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1.2.1  2007/02/03 03:05:10  brian
.\" - added new files
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH UA-SG-IOCTL 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.SH NAME
.B ua_sg_ioctl
\- IO controls for SIGTRAN UA-SG devices
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <ss7/ua_sg_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "struct strioctl *" arg ;
.HP
.BI "int " ua_sg_stream " = open(" ua_sg_device ", " flags );
.HP
.BI "int " retval " = ioctl(" ua_sg_stream ", " \fRI_STR\fI ", " arg );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B UA-SG-IOCTL
is a definition of the managed object model for the
.BR SIGTRAN (4)
UA-SG  drivers using the input-output control framework defined in
.BR lmi_ioctl (4).
.\"
.SS "Layer Management Interface"
.PP
All
.BR SIGTRAN (4)
UA-SG drivers provide a master control Stream as well as local control Streams.  The master and
local control Stream can use a layer management service primitive interface defined for managing
.BR SIGTRAN (4)
UA-SG driver described in
.BR ua_as_lm (7).
.\"
.SS "Object Model"
.PP
.BR "Figure 1" ,
below, illustrates the object model.
The illustration is simpified in that the AS object has one ASP state for each associated SGP and
one overall AS state, and the SGP object has on ASP state for each associated AS.  the AS-SGP
relation is a many-to-many relation bound by the ASP-SG relation.
.PP
.ce 50
\fC\s-1\
     UA-SG Multiplexing Driver    \ 
             ________   ________  \ 
            |        | |        | \ 
            |  Ctrl  | | Master | \ 
            | Stream | | Stream | \ 
            |________| |________| \ 
  ______________|__________|____  \ 
 |             _|__       _|__  | \ 
 |            |    |     |    | | \ 
 |           _| LM |     | LM | | \ 
 |          | |____|     |____| | \ 
 |  ____    |  ____             | \ 
 | |    |__ | |    |__          | \ 
 | | UP |  || | UP |  |         | \ 
 | |____|  || |____|  |         | \ 
 |  _|__   ||  _|__   |         | \ 
 | |    |  || |    |  |         | \ 
 | | AS |  || | AS |  |         | \ 
 | |____|  || |____|  |         | \ 
 |   | ____||___|     |         | \ 
 |  _||_   |   ____   |   ____  | \ 
 | |    |__|__|    |  |  |    | | \ 
 | | SG |  |  | GP |  |  | DF | | \ 
 | |____|  |  |____|  |  |____| | \ 
 |     ____|___|| |___|____     | \ 
 |  __|_   |   _|__   |   _|__  | \ 
 | |    |  |  |    |  |  |    | | \ 
 | | SP |  |  | SP |  |  | SP | | \ 
 | |____|  |  |____|  |  |____| | \ 
 |  _|__   |   _|__   |   _|__  | \ 
 | |    |  |  |    |  |  |    | | \ 
 | | TP |  |  | TP |  |  | TP | | \ 
 | |____|  |  |____|  |  |____| | \ 
 |___|_____|____|_____|____|____| \ 
  ___|____ | ___|____ | ___|____  \ 
 |        |||        |||        | \ 
 |  SCTP  |||  SCTP  |||  SCTP  | \ 
 | Stream ||| Stream ||| Stream | \ 
 |________|||________|||________| \ 
        ___|____   ___|____       \ 
       |        | |        |      \ 
       |Provider| |Provider|      \ 
       | Stream | | Stream |      \ 
       |________| |________|      \ 
\s+1\fP
.PP
.ce
\fBFigure 1.\fR \- \fIAS Multiplexing Driver and Module Example\fR
.PP
UA-SG provides for management of a number of managed objects common to all
.BR SIGTRAN (4)
UA-SG protocol components as follows:
.TP
.B UA_SG_OBJ_TYPE_DF
A Default (DF) object instance corresponds to the the collectin of system-wide default options for
other objects, and is directly associated with a master control Stream (and LM object).  Only one
instance of the DF object exists on a system for each UA-SG driver.
.TP
.B UA_SG_OBJ_TYPE_LM
A Layer Management (LM) object instance corresponds to an instance of a local management interface
provided by the UA-SG driver.  LM objects are directly associated with SG objects that
they manage as well as the control Stream that implements the local management interface.
.TP
.B UA_SG_OBJ_TYPE_UP
A User Part (UP) object instance corresponds to an instance of a local user-provider interface
provided by the UA-SG driver.  UP objects are directly associated with the AS object that
provides them service as well as the provider Stream that implements the user-provider interface.
.TP
.B UA_SG_OBJ_TYPE_AS
An Application Server (AS) object instance corresponds to an instance of a local user-provider
interface served by the UA-SG driver.  AS objects are associated with SG objects that
provide them service as well as the UP object that represents particulars about the user-provider
interface, and the provider Stream that implements the user-provider interface.
.TP
.B UA_SG_OBJ_TYPE_SG
A Signalling Gateway (SG) object instance corresponds to an instance of a logical SG system known to
the UA-SG driver.
SG objects are associated with AS objects served by the SG, and associated with GP objects that
belong to the SG and provide service to ASPs.
Attributes of the SG object are attributes of the logical SG.
.TP
.B UA_SG_OBJ_TYPE_GP
A Signalling Gateway Process (GP) object instance corresponds to an instance of a local SGP.
GP objects are associated with SG objects that represent the logical SG to which the local SGP
belongs, and associated with SP objects that represents the remote ASPs which are provided service
by the local SGP.
Attributes of the GP object are attributes of the local SGP.
.TP
.B UA_SG_OBJ_TYPE_SP
An Application Server Process (SP) object instance corresponds to an instance of a remote ASP known
to the UA-SG driver and is directly associated with an XP object and SCTP Transport
Provider Stream.  Instance attributes of the SP object are known attributes of the remote ASP.
.TP
.B UA_SG_OBJ_TYPE_TP
An SCTP Transport Provider (XP) object instance corresponds to an instance of an SCTP association
used by the UA-SG driver.  It is associated with an SCTP Trasnport Provider Stream.
.\"
.SS Default (DF)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_conf_df {
} ua_conf_df_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
No additional configuration elements are defined.
.PP
.B Identification:
The single DF object has an object identifier of zero (0).
.PP
.B Life-cycle:
Only one DF object exists on a system.  The object is created when the UA-SG driver kernel
module loades and is destroyed when the kernel module is unloaded.
.PP
.B Access:
Attributes of the DF object can only be changed by the master control Stream.
Attributes of the DF object can be queried by any Stream.
.\"
.SS Layer Management (LM)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_conf_lm {
    uint sgid;         /* SG that this LM controls */
} ua_conf_lm_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I sgid
Specifies the SG object with which this control Stream is associated.
Specifying zero (0) on ADD/MOD will associate the control Stream with an newly created anonymous SG
object.
Specifying zero (0) on GET/CHA/MOD/DEL will select the already associated SG object.
.PP
.B Identification:
An LM object is identified by the device number of the control Stream to which the object
corresponds.
.PP
.B Life-cycle:
Only one master control Stream exists on a system.  The master control Stream is created by opening
a special minor device number on the UA-SG driver, and destroyed when the Stream is closed.
Multiple local control Streams can exist on a system.  Local control Streams are normally created
using the
.IR I_LINK (7)
input-output control, but may also be created by the master control Stream by creating an LM
object.
.PP
.B Access:
Attributes of the LM object can only be changed by the master control Stream or the local control
Stream that corresponds to the LM object.
Attributes of the LM object can be queried by the master control Stream or its corresponding local
control Stream.
.\"
.SS User Part (UP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_conf_up {
} ua_conf_up_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
No additional configuration elements are defined.
.PP
.B Identification:
A UP object is identified by the multiplex identifier of the provider Stream to which the object corresponds.
.PP
.B Life-cycle:
A UP object is created when a provider Stream is linked under the UA-SG driver.
is destroyed when the provider Stream is unlinked.
.PP
.B Access:
A UP object can be altered by the master control Stream or the local control Stream for the SGP to
which the UP object corresponds.
Attributes of the UP object can be queried by the master control Stream or its corresponding local
control Stream.
.\"
.SS Application Server (AS)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_conf_as {
    uint sgid;         /* SG identifier */
    /* followed by ua specific link/routing key */
} ua_conf_as_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I sgid
Identifies the SG to which this AS is (to be) associated.
When specified as zero (0) either an existing SG associated with the control Stream is specified, or
a new anonymous SG will be created and the issuing Stream made is local control Stream.
.PP
.B Identification:
.\"AS objects are coincident with UP objects and provider Streams.  An AS object is identified by the
.\"multiplex identifier of the provider Stream to which the object corresponds.
AS objects are identified with a unique identification number.  However, they can also be identified
by their sgid and link/routing key.
.PP
.B Life-cycle:
.\"AS objects exist when an UP object exists, however, they are not necessarily fully specified
.\"(associated with an SG object).  AS objects are destroyed when the corresponding UP object is
.\"destroyed.
AS objects are created by management.  They are destroyed by management, or when the related SG
and SP objects are destroyed by management.
.PP
.B Access:
An AS object can be altered by the master control Stream or the local control Stream for the SG to
which the AS object corresponds.
Attributes of the AS object can be queried by the master control Stream or its corresponding local
control Stream.
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway (SG)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_conf_sg {
    uint gpids[0];
    uint asids[0];
} ua_conf_sg_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I spids
On LIST enumerates the SP objects associated with the SG object by id, empty otherwise.
.TP
.I asids
On LIST enumerates the AS objects associated with the SG object by id, empty otherwise.
.PP
.B Identification:
Public SG objects are identified by their SG identifier.  The SG identifier is a small integer
number that uniquely identifies the SG object within the system.  SG identifiers between 1 and
.I NUM_SGS
also correspond to minor device numbers on the UA-SG driver.  Anonymous SG objects can exist without
an SG identifier, that is with a zero (0) identifier, when they are associated with a local control
Stream.
.PP
.B Life-cycle:
SG objects are created on demand when an LM or AS object is associated with them, when a GP object
is associated with them, or explicitly using the management interface.  Anonymous SG objects are
destroyed when the SG object is no longer associated with LM or AS objects, or GP objects.  Public
SG objects are destroyed explicitly using the management interface or when the kernel module
unloads.
.PP
.B Access:
Attributes of SG objects can be altered by the master control Stream or the associated local control
Stream.  Attributes of the SG object can be queried by the master control Stream or its
corresponding local control Stream.
.\"
.SS Signalling Gateway Process (GP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_conf_gp {
    uint sgid;         /* SG to which this SGP belongs. */
    uint position;     /* SG position for this SGP (small integer) */
} ua_conf_gp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
.B Identification:
GP objects are identified by their GP identifier.  The GP identifier is a unique number of no other
significance.
M2UA
.[
rfc3331
.]
.[
ts 102 141
.]
does not support multiple SGP per SG serving the same AS.  The GP identifier will then, for
convenience, be the same as the SG identifier.
For other UAs where an SG does not support multiple local SGP, the GP identifier may, for
convenience, also be set to the SG identifier.  Because of this, an attempt to create a GP object
witha zero id (0) will result in the driver first attempting a GP identifier the same as the SG
identifier with the GP position in the high order 16 bits, and chosing a unique value greater than
NUM_SG otherwise.
.PP
.B Life-cycle:
GP objects are created on demand when an SP object is associated with them, or explicitly using the
management interface.  GP objects associated with anonymous SG objects are destroyed when SP objects
are no longer associated with them.  Public GP objects are destroyed explicitly using the management
interface or when the kernel module unloads.
.PP
.B Access:
Attributes of GP objects can be altered by the master control Stream or the associated local control
Stream.  Attributes of the GP object can be queried by the master control Stream or its
corresponding local control Stream.
.\"
.SS Application Server Process (SP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_conf_sp {
    uint gpid;          /* SGP to which this ASP is connected */
    uint aspid;         /* External ASP Identifier for ths ASP */
} ua_conf_sp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I gpid
.TP
.I aspid
.PP
.B Identification:
.\"SP objects are coincident with XP objects.  SP objects are identified by the same identifier as the
.\"corresponding XP object.
SP objects are identified with a unique identification number.  However, they can also be
identified by their sgid and non-zero ASP Identifier.
.PP
.B Life-cycle:
.\"SP objects exist when an XP object exists, however, they are not necessarily fully specified
.\"(associated with an SG object).  SP objects are destroyed when the corresponding XP object is
.\"destroyed.
SP objects are created by management.  They are destroyed by management, or when the related SG and
XP objects are destroyed by management.
.PP
.B Access:
An SP object can be altered by the control Stream to which the XP object corresponds, or by the SCTP
transport provider Stream.
Attributes of the SP object can be queried by the master control Stream or its corresponding local
control Stream.
.\"
.SS SCTP Transport Provider (XP)
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
typedef struct ua_conf_xp {
    uint spid;          /* ASP to which this XP connects */
    uint gpid;          /* SGP to which this ASP is connected */
    uint aspid;         /* External ASP Identifier for ths ASP */
} ua_conf_xp_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP
.I spid
.TP
.I gpid
.TP
.I aspid
.PP
.B Identification:
An XP object is identified by the lower multiplex identifier of the linked SCTP transport
Stream.
.PP
.B Life-cycle:
An XP object is created when an SCTP transport Stream is linked under the UA-SG multiplexing driver.
It is destroyed when unlinked from the UA-SG multiplexing driver.
After linking, an XP object must be created by management to associate it with a GP and SP object.
Unlinking will automatically disassociate the XP object from the GP and SP object and destroy the XP
object.
When created and both aspid and spid are zero, but gpid is non-zero, this specifies that ASPID is
require in the ASP Up message, at which point the ASP will be associated with an SP object.
.PP
.B Access:
An XP object can be altered by the control Stream to which it corresponds.  The control Stream is
the Stream that performed the
.IR I_LINK (7)
or
.IR I_PLINK (7)
input-output control operation.
Attributes of the XP object can be queried by the master control Stream or its corresponding local
control Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
A general purpose object model for the SIGTRAN UAs was never adopted by IETF.
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B THIS MANPAGE IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND NEEDS TO BE COMPLETED.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <ss7/ua_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/m2ua ,
.IR /dev/m3ua ,
.IR /dev/sua ,
.IR /dev/tua ,
.IR /dev/isua ,
.IR /dev/bua ,
.IR /dev/iua ,
.IR /dev/dua ,
.IR /dev/v5ua ,
.IR /dev/gr303ua .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR m2ua (4),
.BR m3ua (4),
.BR sua (4),
.BR tua (4),
.BR isua (4),
.BR bua (4),
.BR iua (4),
.BR dua (4),
.BR v5ua (4),
.BR gr303ua (4),
.BR ss7confd (8),
.BR isdnconfd (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B UA
IO Controls are specific to the
.I OpenSS7
.BR SS7 (4)
stack.
.BR m2ua (4),
.BR m3ua (4),
.BR sua (4),
.BR tua (4),
.BR isua (4),
.BR bua (4),
.BR iua (4),
.BR dua (4),
.BR v5ua (4),
.BR gr303ua (4),
will not appear unitl
.B strss7
release 0.8.4.
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
