'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: v5ua.4.man,v 0.9.2.3 2008-04-29 01:52:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 01:52:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: v5ua.4.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2008-04-29 01:52:15  brian
.\" - updated headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/12/21 11:00:57  brian
.\" - updated manual pages for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/10/17 11:55:37  brian
.\" - copied files into new packages from strss7 package
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:43:05  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database sigtran.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so sigtran.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH V5UA 4 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Devices"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B v5ua, dl-v5ua
\- V5.2 User Adatpation Layer (V5UA)
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dlpi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dlpi_v5ua.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/v5ua_ioctl.h>
.HP
.BI "int " v5ua_stream " = open(" v5ua_device ", " flags );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B V5UA
is an implementation of the
.I Digital Loop Carrier (IDLC)
defined in
.BR V5.2 .
.B V5UA
provides a backhaul of the services of
.BR v5 (4)
over an IP network using
Stream Control Transmission Protocol,
.BR sctp (4),
as defined in
.BR "RFC 2960" .
.PP
.B V5UA
is implemented as a
.IR STREAMS (4)
multiplexing driver.
.BR v5 "(4) or " sctp (4)
streams are linked under the
.B V5UA
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide transport to remote ASP or SG,
or direct V5.2 services to
.BR V5UA .
Once linked, the streams must be configured using
.BR v5ua_ioctl (4)
input-output controls.  This is normally performed by the ISDN Configuration Daemon,
.BR isdnconfd (8).
.PP
.B V5UA
streams can be linked under a
.BR v5 (4)
multiplexing driver using the
.IR I_LINK "(7) or " I_PLINK (7)
commands of
.BR streamio (7),
to provide data link services to the V5.2 Layer 3 protocol.  This is normally
performed by the ISDN Configuration Daemon,
.BR isdnconfd (8).
.PP
.B V5UA
provides the following
.BR v5 (4)
devices.  The
.I v5ua_device
argument to the
.BR open (2)
call can be one of the following:
.TP
.I /dev/v5ua
This device provides the
.BR v5 (4)
protocol services using the DL-primitives of the
.I Data Link Provider Interface (DLPI)
described in
.BR dlpi (7),
with the corrigendum described in
.BR dlpi_v5ua (7).
Streams that result from opening this device are directly compatible with
.BR v5 (4)
streams.  This interface is suitable for use with other
.BR ISDN (4)
modules and drivers or directly by user-level programs using the
.BR dlpi (7)
interface.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Unlike other
.B OpenSS7
protocol modules and drivers providing transport services,
.B V5UA
does not provide a
.BR sockets (3)
interface.
.PP
When acting as a Signalling Gateway (SG), streams on this device are not
necessarily opened and the SG runs as kernel daemon only.
.PP
.B V5UA
can be configured on a system as a drop in transparent replacement for
.BR v5 (4).
In such a configuration, users opening streams as defined in
.BR v5 (4)
will be opening
.BR v5ua ()
streams, but will be unaware of the difference.  In
.BR OpenSS7 ,
.BR v5ua ()
is used as the primary mechanism of redundancy and distribution of the data
link layer, and, when properly configured (see
.BR isdnconfd (8)),
.BR v5ua ()
functions transparently to the V5.2 Layer 3.
.PP
Also, opening and binding a
.BR v5ua ()
stream may result in the opening and binding of a
.BR v5 (4)
stream on the local or remote host in direct support of the local V5.2 user.
.\"
.\"
.SH IOCTLS
.PP
All interfaces support a set of input-output controls using
.BR ioctl (2)
and the
.IR I_STR (7)
command to the
.BR streamio (7)
system calls on the
.I v5ua_stream
file descriptor.  These management controls are documented in
.BR v5ua_ioctl (4).
.PP
In addition,
.BR v5ua ()
supports
.BR dl (4)
input-output controls (see
.BR dl_ioctl (4)).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.BR <sys/dlpi.h> ,
.BR <sys/dlpi_v5.h> ,
.BR <sys/dlpi_v5ua.h> ,
.BR <ss7/dl_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/v5_ioctl.h> ,
.BR <ss7/v5ua_ioctl.h> .
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.IR /dev/dl-v5ua .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR dl (4),
.BR v5 (4),
.BR dlpi (7),
.BR dlpi_v5 (7),
.BR dlpi_v5ua (7),
.BR dl_ioctl (4),
.BR v5_ioctl (4),
.BR v5ua_ioctl (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH VERSIONS
.PP
The
.B V5UA
driver conforms to the DLPI Specification, Revision 2.0.0.
.PP
The
.B V5UA
driver will first appear in
.B strss7
release 0.8.4.
.\"
.\"
.XX
.[
v5ua-rfc
.]
.[
v52
.]
.[
dlpi
.]
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.\"
.TI
