@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: descrip.texi,v 0.9.2.4 2008-04-29 08:49:51 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 08:49:51 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package is the OpenSS7 Linux Native (Sockets) Kernel implementation of
@cite{Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)}.

@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION} is the @value{VERSION} version of a Linux Kernel native
implementation of @cite{RFC 2960} Stream Control Transmission Protocol.  For information on using
the implementation see the @file{man/sctp.7} Linux manual page and look at the test programs in
@file{@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/test/}.

@emph{Warning}: This is pre-release code.  It is Beta but rather stable.  Nevertheless, it is
possible it will crash or lock your machine in some situations.  Please remember that there is
@emph{NO WARRANTY} with this code and take appropriate precautions when attempting to run it.

This distribution is only currently applicable to @cite{Linux} 2.4 kernels and was targeted
at @code{ix86}, @code{x86_64}, @code{ppc} and @code{ppc64} architectures, but should build and
install for other architectures as well.

