@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: news.texi,v 0.9.2.8 2006/10/29 02:02:44 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/10/29 02:02:44 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

The sections that follow provide information on OpenSS7 releases of the @*
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package.

@ifnotplaintext
@ifnothtml
@menu
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}::			Release @value{PACKAGE_RELEASE}
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.2.23::			Release 23
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.2.22::			Release 22
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.2.21::			Release 21
* Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.2.20-1::		Release 20
@end menu
@end ifnothtml
@end ifnotplaintext

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}

This is the twenty-fourth release of the Linux Native (Sockets) SCTP from the
OpenSS7 Project.  This release, as with other releases, on builds and installs
on 2.4 kernels.  This package is not as important to the OpenSS7 Project as
the STREAMS version of SCTP, which provides the basis for all of the SIGTRAN
components for the OpenSS7 stacks.  Also, the STREAMS version runs on both 2.4
and 2.6 kernels.

This is a stable production release: it deprecates previous releases.  Please
upgrade to the current release before reporting bugs.

This is primarily a maintenance release correcting reported bugs, but also
includes the latest packaging improvements.

Following are highlights of some of the changes since the last release:

@itemize -
@item
Support for (configure but not build on) most recent 2.6.18 kernels (including
Fedora Core 5 with inode diet patchset).

@item
Added @command{send-pr} scripts for automatic problem report generation.

@item
Now builds 32-bit compatibility libraries and tests them against 64-bit kernel
modules and drivers.  The @samp{make installcheck} target will now automatically
test both 64-bit native and 32-bit compatibility versions, one after the other,
on 64-bit platforms.

@item
Improved compiler flag generation and optimizations for recent @command{gcc}
compilers and some idiosyncratic behaviour for some distributions (primarily
SUSE).

@item
Optimized compilation is now available also for user level programs in
addition to kernel programs.  Added new @option{--with-optimize} option to
@command{configure} to accomplish this.

@item
Better detection of SUSE distributions, release numbers and SLES
distributions: support for additional @cite{SuSE} distributions on @code{ix86}
as well as @code{x86_64}.  Added distribution support includes @cite{SLES 9},
@cite{SLES 9 SP2}, @cite{SLES 9 SP3}, @cite{SLES 10}, @cite{SuSE 10.1}.

@item
Many documentation updates for all @uref{http://www.openss7.org/,, OpenSS7}
packages.  Automated release file generation making for vastly improved and
timely text documentation present in the release directory.

@item
Added @command{--disable-devel} @command{configure} option to suppress
building and installing development environment.  This feature is for embedded
or pure runtime targets that do not need the development environment (static
libraries, manual pages, documentation).


@item
Added @command{send-pr} script for automatic problem report generation.

@item
Fixed problems with unresolved symbols on some systems.
Fixed glaring error in @code{sctp_init} preventing kernel module from loading.

@item
Added init scripts and system control configuration data.
Removed old preload approach to kernel module loading.
@end itemize

@emph{This is a public stable production release of the package: it deprecates
previous releases.  Please upgrade to the current release before reporting
bugs.}

As with other OpenSS7 releases, this release configures, compiles, installs
and builds RPMs and DEBs for a wide range of Linux 2.4 RPM-based or dpkg-based
distributions, and can be used on production kernels without patching or
recompiling the kernel.

This package is publicly released under the @cite{GNU General Public License
Version 2}.  The release is available as an @command{autoconf} tarball, SRPM,
DSC, and set of binary RPMs or DEBs.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/download.html, download page} for the
@command{autoconf} tarballs, SRPMs and DSCs.  See the
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_pkg.html, @value{PACKAGE} package
page} for tarballs, SRPMs, DSCs and binary RPMs or DEBs.

See
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/ChangeLog}
and
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/codefiles/@value{PACKAGE}-@value{VERSION}/NEWS}
in the release for more information.  Also, see the @file{@value{PACKAGE}.pdf}
manual in the release (also in
@uref{http://www.openss7.org/@value{PACKAGE}_manual.html}).

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.2.23
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.2.23
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.2.23

Corrections for and testing of 64-bit clean compile and test runs on x86_64
architecture.  Some bug corrections resulting from gcc 4.0.2 compiler
warnings.

Corrected build flags for Gentoo and 2.6.15 kernels as reported on mailing
list.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.2.22
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.2.22
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.2.22

This is primarily a bug fixes release and corrections resulting from testing.
This is a major bug fix release.  The previous release was largely untested.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.2.21
@unnumberedsubsec Major changes for release @value{PACKAGE}-0.2.21
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.2.21

With this release version numbers were changed to reflect an upstream version
only to be consistent with other OpenSS7 package releases.  All @cite{RPM}
release numbers will be @samp{-1$(PACKAGE_RPMEXTRA)} and all @cite{Debian}
release numbers will be @samp{_0}.  If you wish to apply patches and release
the package, please bump up the release number and apply a suitable release
suffix for your organization.  We leave @cite{Debian} release number @samp{_1}
reserved for your use, so you can still bundle the source in the @file{.dsc}
file.

Improved build process.

Not publicly released.

@c ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Release @value{PACKAGE}-0.2.20-1
@unnumberedsubsec Initial release @value{PACKAGE}-0.2.20-1
@cindex release @value{PACKAGE}-0.2.20-1

Initial autoconf/RPM packaging of the @command{@value{PACKAGE}} release.

The @cite{OpenSS7 Linux Native SCTP} existed before as a kernel patch for the
Linux kernel.  This is an @command{autoconf/rpm} packaging release of
@cite{Linux Native SCTP} that builds and installs separate from the Linux
kernel tree.

Not publicly released.

