@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: rpm.texi,v 0.9.2.5 2008-04-29 08:49:51 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-29 08:49:51 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

In addition, the following @command{rpm} options, specific to the
@value{PACKAGE_TITLE} package are available:

@table @command
@item --with sctp-slow-verification
@opindex sctp-slow-verification
Enable slow verification of addresses and tags.
When a message comes from an SCTP endpoint with the correct verification tag, it is not necessary to
check whether it is from a correct source address to identify the SCTP association to which it
belongs.  When you disable this feature (@command{--without sctp-slow-verification}), source
addresses are not checked and it is up to firewall implementations to thwart attackers of the
verification tag.  When you enable this feature (@command{--enablesctp-slow-verification}), you get
RFC 2960 compliant operation, but at great cost to SCTP performance.
This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --with sctp-throttle-heartbeats
@opindex sctp-throttle-heartbeats
Enable heartbeat throttling.
Special feature of @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} that is not mentioned in RFC 2960.  When you enable this
feature (@command{--with sctp-throttle-heartbeats}), @value{PACKAGE_TITLE} will throttle the rate
at which it responds to heartbeats to the system control @var{heartbeat_interval}.  This makes SCTP
more resilient to implementations which flood heartbeat messages.  For RFC 2960 compliant operation,
disable this feature (@command{--without sctp-throttle-heartbeats}).
This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --with sctp-discard-ootb
@opindex sctp-discard-ootb
Enable discard of out-of-the-blue packets.
RFC 2960 requires the implementation to send @code{ABORT} to some OOTB packets (packets for which no
SCTP association exists).  Sending @code{ABORT} chunks to unverified source addresses with the T bit
set opens SCTP to blind masquerade attacks.  Not sending them may lead to delays at the peer
endpoint aborting associations where our @code{ABORT} has been lost and the socket is already closed
or if we have restarted and the peer still has open associations to us.  If you enable this feature
(@command{--with sctp-discard-ootb}), SCTP will discard all OOTB packets.  This is necessary if
another SCTP stack is being run on the same machine.  Therefore, if the @value{PACKAGE_TITLE}
package is included on an OpenSS7 SCTP kernel, this feature is automatically enabled.  For RFC 2960
compliant operation, disable this feature (@command{--without sctp-discard-ootb}).
This option defaults to @samp{disabled} for non-OpenSS7 SCTP kernels, and @samp{enabled} for OpenSS7
SCTP kernels.

@item --with sctp-extended-ip-support
@opindex sctp-extended-ip-support
Enable extended IP support for SCTP.
This provides extended IP support for SCTP for things like IP Transparent Proxy and IP Masquerading.
This is experimental stuff.  If in doubt, disable this feature
(@command{--without sctp-expended-ip-support}).
This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --with sctp-hmac-sha1
@opindex sctp-hmac-sha1
Disable SHA-1 HMAC.
This provides the ability to use the FIPS 180-1 (SHA-1) message authentication code in SCTP cookies.
If you enable this feature (@command{--with sctp-hmac-sha1}), when the appropriate sysctl is set,
SCTP will use the SHA-1 HMAC when signing cookies in the @code{INIT-ACK} chunk.  If disable this
feature (@command{--without sctp-hmac-sha1}), the SHA-1 HMAC will be unavailable for use with SCTP.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --with sctp-hmac-md5
@opindex sctp-hmac-md5
Disable MD5 HMAC.
This provides the ability to use the MD5 (RFC 1321) message authentication code in SCTP cookies.  If
you enable this feature (@command{--with sctp-hmac-md5}), when the appropriate sysctl is set, SCTP
will use the MD5 HMAC when signing cookies in the INIT ACK chunk.  If you disable this feature
(@command{--without sctp-hmac-md5}), the MD5 HMAC will be unavailable for use with SCTP.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --with sctp-adler32
@opindex sctp-adler32
Enable Adler32 checksum.
This provides the ability to use the older RFC 2960 Adler32 checksum.  If CONFIG_SCTP_CRC_32 below
is not selected, the Adler32 checksum is always provided.
This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --without sctp-crc32c
@opindex sctp-crc32c
Disable CRC-32C checksum.
This provides the ability to use the newer CRC-32c checksum as described in RFC 3309.  When this is
selected and CONFIG_SCTP_ADLER_32 is not selected above, then the only checksum that will be used is
the CRC-32c checksum.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --with sctp-throttle-passiveopens
@opindex sctp-throttle-passiveopens
Enable throttling of passive opens.
Special feature of Linux SCTP not mentioned in RFC 2960.  When secure algorithms are used for
signing cookies, the implementation becomes vulnerable to INIT and @code{COOKIE-ECHO} flooding.  If
you enable this feature (@command{--with sctp-throttle-passiveopens}), SCTP will only allow one
INIT and one @code{COOKIE-ECHO} to be processed in each interval corresponding to the sysctl
sctp_throttle_itvl.  Setting sctp_throttle_itvl to 0 defeats this function.  If you disable this
feature (@command{--without sctp-throttle-passiveopens}), each INIT and @code{COOKIE-ECHO} will be
processed.
This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --with sctp-ecn
@opindex sctp-ecn
Enable explicit congestion notification.
This enables support for Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN) chunks in SCTP messages as defined
in RFC 2960 and RFC 3168.  It also adds syctl (/proc/net/ipv4/sctp_ecn) which allows ECN for SCTP to
be disabled at runtime.
This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --with sctp-lifetimes
@opindex sctp-lifetimes
Enable SCTP message lifetimes.
This enables support for message lifetimes as described in RFC 2960.  When enabled, message
lifetimes can be set on messages.  See sctp(7).  This feature is always enabled when Partial
Reliability Support is set.
This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --with sctp-add-ip
@opindex sctp-add-ip
Enable ADD-IP.
This enables support for ADD-IP as described in draft-ietf-tsvwg-addip-sctp-07.txt.  This allows the
addition and removal of IP addresses from existing connections.  This is experimental stuff.
This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --with sctp-adaptation-layer-info
@opindex sctp-adaptation-layer-info
Enable ALI.
This enables support for the Adaptation Layer Information parameter described in
draft-ietf-tsvwg-addip-sctp-07.txt for communicating application layer information bits at
initialization.  This is experimental stuff.
This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --with sctp-partial-reliability
@opindex sctp-partial-reliability
Enable SCTP Partial Reliability (PR-SCTP).
This enables support for PR-SCTP as described in draft-stewart-tsvwg-prsctp-03.txt.  This allows for
partial reliability of message delivery on a "timed reliability" basis.  This is experimental stuff.
This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@item --without sctp-error-generator
@opindex sctp-error-generator
Disable the SCTP error generator.
This provides an internal error generator that can be accessed with socket options for testing SCTP
operation under packet loss.  You will need this option to run some of the test programs distributed
with the SCTP module.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --without tcp-compatible
@opindex tcp-compatible
Disables support for SOCK_STREAM type TCP compatible sockets in addition to the normal SCTP
SOCK_SEQPACKET sockets.  These work well and are normally enabled.
This option defaults to @samp{enabled}.

@item --with udp-compatible
@opindex udp-compatible
Enables support for SOCK_RDM type RUDP compatible sockets in addition to the normal SCTP
SOCK_SEQPACKET sockets.  These have not been tested.  This is experimental stuff.
This option defaults to @samp{disabled}.

@end table

