@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) $Id: tree.texi,v 0.9.2.5 2006/03/29 11:27:45 brian Exp $
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2001-2004  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified $Date: 2006/03/29 11:27:45 $ by $Author: brian $
@c
@c =========================================================================

@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME} places the following kernel modules files in the kernel
modules directory @file{lib/modules/@value{PACKAGE_KVERSION}/}:

@table @file
@item modules.sctp
@end table

@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME} places the following kernel modules files in the kernel
modules directory @file{lib/modules/@value{PACKAGE_KVERSION}/kernel/net/ipv4/}:

@table @file
@item sctp.o
This kernel module contains the SCTP protocol module.
@end table

@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME} places the following header files in the system include
directory @file{usr/include/netinet/}:

@table @file
@item sctp.h
This file contains SCTP and socket option definitons.
@end table

@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME} places the following test programs in the system libexec
directory @file{usr/libexec/sctp/}:

@table @file
@item test-sctp-dc
This binary contains a test program for delay test client for SCTP.
@item test-sctp-ds
This binary contains a test program for delay test server for SCTP.
@item test-sctp-sc
This binary contains a test program for socket test client for SCTP.
@item test-sctp-ss
This binary contains a test program for socket test server for SCTP.
@item test-sctp-tc
This binary contains a test program for throughput test client for SCTP.
@item test-sctp-ts
This binary contains a test program for throughput test server for SCTP.
@item test-sctpc
This binary contains a test program for a general testing test client for SCTP.
@item test-sctps
This binary contains a test program for a general testing test server for SCTP.
@item test-tcp-dc
This binary contains a test program for delay test client for TCP.
@item test-tcp-ds
This binary contains a test program for delay test server for TCP.
@item test-tcp-tc
This binary contains a test program for throughput test client for TCP.
@item test-tcp-ts
This binary contains a test program for throughput test server for TCP.
@item test-tcpc
This binary contains a test program for a general testing test client for TCP.
@item test-tcps
This binary contains a test program for a general testing test server for TCP.
@item test-udpc
This binary contains a test program for a general testing test client for UDP.
@item test-udps
This binary contains a test program for a general testing test server for UDP.
@end table

@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME} places the following info files in the system info
directory @file{usr/share/info/}:

@table @file
@item sctp.info
These files contain this manual in info format.
@end table

@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME} places the following manpage macro and reference
database files in the system man directory @file{usr/share/man/}:

@table @file
@item sctp.macros
This file contain manual page macro definitions included by the manual pages
included in the package.
@item sctp.refs
This file contains a reference database referenced by the manual pages
included in the package.
@end table

@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME} places the following SCTP manual pages in the system man
directory @file{usr/share/man/man7/}:

@noindent
@file{sctp.7}
@display
@noindent
This is the SCTP manual page.
@end display

@value{PACKAGE_UCNAME} places the following SCTP manual pages in the system man
directory @file{usr/share/man/man8/}:

@noindent
@file{test-sctp-dc.8},
@file{test-sctp-ds.8},
@file{test-sctp-sc.8},
@file{test-sctp-ss.8},
@file{test-sctp-tc.8},
@file{test-sctp-ts.8},
@file{test-sctpc.8},
@file{test-sctps.8},
@file{test-tcp-dc.8},
@file{test-tcp-ds.8},
@file{test-tcp-tc.8},
@file{test-tcp-ts.8},
@file{test-tcpc.8},
@file{test-tcps.8},
@file{test-udpc.8},
@file{test-udps.8}
@display
@noindent
These are the test program manual pages.
@end display

