'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: test-sctp.8.man,v 0.9.2.4 2007/03/12 09:34:59 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/12 09:34:59 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: test-sctp.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/03/12 09:34:59  brian
.\" - boosted default test port numbers from 10000 to 18000
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/10 10:46:18  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/04/05 09:44:34  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strsctp.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strsctp.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TEST-SCTP 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B test-sctp
\- a simple check program for the sctp_n(4) STREAMS driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBtest-sctp\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBtest-sctp\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP 12
\fBtest-sctp\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP 12
\fBtest-sctp\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B test-sctp
is a simple check program for the
.BR sctp_n (4)
.I STREAMS
driver.  Its original intention was to check if the driver worked at all.
The
.BR test-sctp_n (8)
and
.BR test-sctp_n2 (8)
test case executable program that are invoked by the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.B autotest
conformance and validation test suite is a far more mature was to go about
testing
.BR sctp_n (4).
.PP
When
.BR test-sctp
executes, it opens two SCTP NPI Streams,
.BR sctp_n (4)
by opening device
.BR /dev/sctp_n .
It binds one Stream to address
.B 127.0.0.1:18000
and the other to
.B 127.0.0.1:18001
as a listener.
It then collects information from both Streams.
It then connects the first Stream to the second Stream.
Once connected, it sends
.RI \(lq "Hello There fd2" \(rq
from the first Stream to the second, and
.RI \(lq "Hello There fd1" \(rq
from the second Stream to the first.
It then performs an abortive disconnect on the first Stream and again collects
information from both Streams.
Finally, it unbinds and closes both Streams and prints the message:
.RI \(lq Done. \(rq.
.PP
When each
.BR npi (7)
message is passed to or from a Stream in this sequence, details of the
contents of the message is printed to standard output.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B test-sctp
options fall into several categories as detailed in the subsections below.  If
.B test-sctp
is executed without any options, it will execute the test and report progress.
.\"
.SS Command Options
.PP
These command options determine whether the program is run or whether an informative function is
performed instead.  If none of these command options are specified, then it is assumed that the test
test program is to be executed.  Options
.BR --help ", " --version " and " --copying
will override the program execution.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP, \fB-?\fP, \fB--?\fP
When this option is encountered,
print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered,
print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered,
print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.\"
.SS General Options
.PP
The following options are applicable to all command options.  For other than test case command
options, these general options must appear ahead of the command option.
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Specifies that the caller is interested only in the return code and error diagnostics and that
normal output should be suppressed.
The default verbosity level if this option is not specified is
.BR 1 .
This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=0 .
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fILEVEL\fP]
Increases or sets the verbosity level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the verbosity level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the verbosity level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.
The default verbosity level if this option is not specified is
.BR 1 .
For example,
.B -vvvv
is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=5 .
.\"
.SS Test Program Options
.PP
The following options are only applicable if test program execution is in
effect.  That is, these options are only effective if the test program is
being executed and are used to modify the manner in which the test program is
executed or results reported.
.PP
The
.B test-sctp
program has no test program options (it is too simple).
.\"
.\"
.SH "OUTPUT FORMAT"
.PP
The output of this program is verbose are largely meaningless.  I will not
describe it here.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed on
.BR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message
is printed on
.BR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.BR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B test-sctp
is a very simplistic test program.  Its only intention is to check that the
.BR sctp_n (4)
device works at all.
You probably do not need to ever use this program.  The SCTP NPI verification
test case executable
.BR test-sctp_n (8)
or
.BR test-sctp_n2 (8)
should be used in its stead.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
None.  Do not use this program.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
The
.B test-sctp
program opens the
.B /dev/sctp_n
device that provides a Network Provider Interface.
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
See
.BR sctp_n (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/libexec/@PACKAGE@/test-sctp
contains the
.B test-sctp
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sctp (4),
.BR sctp_n (4),
.BR npi (7),
.BR test-sctp_n (8),
.BR test-sctp_n2 (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B test-sctp
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B test-sctp
is only compatible with itself.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.B test-sctp
is a simple test program and is not subject to standardization.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B test-sctp
is one of the original test programs provided with the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
