'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: test-sctp_nc.8.man,v 0.9.2.4 2007/03/12 09:34:59 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/12 09:34:59 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: test-sctp_nc.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2007/03/12 09:34:59  brian
.\" - boosted default test port numbers from 10000 to 18000
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/10/10 10:46:18  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2006/04/05 09:44:34  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strsctp.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strsctp.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH TEST-SCTP_NC 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B test-sctp_nc
\- a simple client test program for the sctp(4) STREAMS driver
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.HP 12
\fBtest-sctp_nc\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBtest-sctp_nc\fR {\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR}
.HP 12
\fBtest-sctp_nc\fR {\fB-V\fR|\fB--version\fR}
.HP 12
\fBtest-sctp_nc\fR {\fB-C\fR|\fB--copying\fR}
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B test-sctp_nc
is a simple client test program for the
.BR sctp (4)
.I STREAMS
driver.  It is intended to be used with the
.BR test-sctp_ns (8)
server program.
.PP
When
.B test-sctp_nc
executes, it opens an NPI Stream on device
.B /dev/sctp_n
and binds it to the
.I LOCAL-HOST
address and
.I PORT
port number.  It then connects
to the
.I REMOTE-HOST
address and
.I PORT
port number,
where it is expected that the corresponding
.BR test-sctp_ns (8)
program is running.
.PP
Once connected, the program enters a
.BR poll (2)
loop and begins writing messages of length
.I LENGTH
continuously.
Every
.I REPORT-TIME
seconds, the program will print a report line that shows the throughput that
was acheived on the write side.
The program runs indefinitely (until interrupted from the controlling
terminal).
.PP
The report output is formatted as described under
.RI \(lq "OUTPUT FORMAT" \(rq,
below.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B test-sctp_nc
options fall into several categories as detailed in the subsections below.  If
.B test-sctp_nc
is executed without any options, it will execute the test and report progress.
.\"
.SS Command Options
.PP
These command options determine whether the program is run or whether an informative function is
performed instead.  If none of these command options are specified, then it is assumed that the test
test program is to be executed.  Options
.BR --help ", " --version " and " --copying
will override the program execution.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP, \fB-?\fP, \fB--?\fP
When this option is encountered,
print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
When this option is encountered,
print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--copying\fP
When this option is encountered,
print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.\"
.SS General Options
.PP
The following options are applicable to all command options.  For other than test case command
options, these general options must appear ahead of the command option.
.TP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP
Specifies that the caller is interested only in the return code and error diagnostics and that
normal output should be suppressed.
The default verbosity level if this option is not specified is
.BR 1 .
This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=0 .
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP [\fILEVEL\fP]
Increases or sets the verbosity level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the verbosity level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the verbosity level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.
The default verbosity level if this option is not specified is
.BR 1 .
For example,
.B -vvvv
is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=5 .
.\"
.SS Test Program Options
.PP
The following options are only applicable if test program execution is in
effect.  That is, these options are only effective if the test program is
being executed and are used to modify the manner in which the test program is
executed or results reported.
.TP
\fB-p\fP, \fB--port\fP \fIPORT\fP
Specifies both the local and remote port number to use,
.IR PORT .
The default port number if this option is not specified is port
.B 18000
for the local port and
.B 18001
for the remote port.
.TP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--loc_host\fP \fILOCAL-HOST\fP
Specifies the
.I LOCAL-HOST
to which to bind.
.I LOCAL-HOST
is of the format
.IR host [: port ],
where
.I host
can be either a host name or a numbers and dots IP address.  By default, the
local host to which to bind is
.B 127.0.0.1
and the port number is port
.BR 18000 ,
or the port number specified by the
.B -p
option.
.TP
\fB-r\fP, \fB--rem_host\fP \fIREMOTE-HOST\fP
Specifies the
.I REMOTE-HOST
to which to connect.
.I REMOTE-HOST
is of the format
.IR host [: port ],
where
.I host
can be either a host name or a numbers and dots IP address.  By default, the
remote host to which to connect is
.B 127.0.0.1
and the port number is port
.BR 18001 ,
or the port number specified by the
.B -p
option.
.TP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--rep_time\fP \fIREPORT-TIME\fP
Specifies the
.I REPORT-TIME
in seconds between reports.  A report line will be generated each
.I REPORT-TIME
seconds until the test program terminates.  The default is one
.RB ( 1 )
second.
.TP
\fB-w\fP, \fB--length\fP \fILENGTH\fP
Specifies the
.I LENGTH
of the message that are transmitted in bytes.  The default is
.B 64
bytes.
.\"
.\"
.SH "OUTPUT FORMAT"
.PP
While
.B test-sctp_nc
is running, it generates an output report line once every
.I REPORT-TIME
interval.  Each output line is of the format:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
Msgs sent: %5ld, recv: %5ld, tot: %5ld, dif: %5ld, tput: %10ld
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The fields of the output report line are interpreted as follows:
.TP \w'\fIsent\fP\(em'u
.I sent
provides a simple count of the number of messages sent during the interval.
.TP
.I recv
provides a simple count of the number of messages received during the
interval.
.TP
.I tot
provides the total of the number of messages sent and received during the
interval.
.TP
.I dif
provides the difference between the number of message sent and the number of
messages received.
.TP
.I tput
provides a throughput calculation which is the number of bytes sent and
received during the interval, and is the simple product of the message length
and the total number of message sent and received.
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of zero (0) indicates that the command was successful; one (1)
indicates that an error occurred and a diagnostic message is printed on
.BR stderr ;
two (2) indicates that the option syntax was in error and a diagnostic message
is printed on
.BR stderr .
.PP
The
.B --quiet
option suppresses the printing of diagnostic messages to
.BR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B test-sctp_nc
is a very simplistic test program.  You probably do not want to use this
program.  It would be better to use the OpenSS7 Modified Netperf package
.RB ( netperf )
to perform any performance testing.  The only disadvantage of the
.BR netperf (1)
program is that its invokes the Transport Provider Interface,
.[
tpi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR tpi (7),
instead of the Network Provider Interface,
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
.BR npi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following is a simple example on the use of
.B test-sctp_nc
and
.BR test-sctp_ns (8).
.PP
On one terminal of a host supporting STREAMS
.BR sctp_n (4),
execute the following:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
$> test-sctp_ns --length=256
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
On another terminal of the same host
execute the following:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
$> test-sctp_nc --length=256
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
Note that the server program should be executed first.
.PP
Both programs will continue to run and output a report line until they are
interrupted from the keyboard.
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
The
.B test-sctp_nc
program opens the
.B /dev/sctp_n
device that provides a Network Provider Interface.
.[
npi revision 2.0.0
.]
See
.BR sctp_n (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /usr/libexec/@PACKAGE@/test-sctp_nc
contains the
.B test-sctp_nc
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sctp (4),
.BR sctp_n (4),
.BR test-sctp_ns (8),
.BR poll (2),
.BR netperf (1),
.BR npi (7),
.BR tpi (7).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B test-sctp_nc
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B test-sctp_nc
is compatible with
.BR test-sctp_ns (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.B test-sctp_nc
is a simple test program and is not subject to standardization.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.B test-sctp_nc
is one of the original test programs provided with the
.I @PACKAGE_TITLE@
package.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
