'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: initsock.8.man,v 0.9.2.1 2006/09/17 23:36:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/09/17 23:36:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: initsock.8.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2006/09/17 23:36:55  brian
.\" - added manual pages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database strsock.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so strsock.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH INITSOCK 8 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ Administration"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B initsock
\- configure transport providers for use by sockets
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 12
\fBinitsock\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
[{\fB-f\fP,\fB--file\fP} [\fIfilename\fP]]
.PD 0
.HP 12
\fBinitsock\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
{\fB-d\fP,\fB--delete\fP}
.HP 12
\fBinitsock\fP [\fIoptions\fP]
{{\fB-a\fP,\fB--add\fP}
\fIfamily\fP
\fItype\fP
\fIproto\fP
\fIdev\fP} ...
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B initsock
utility configurs the transport provider driver for use with sockets.  It specifies how the
.IR family ,
.IR type ,
and
.I protocol
parameters in the
.BR socket (3)
call are mapped to the name of a transport provider such as
.BR /dev/tcp .
This utility can be used to add an additional mapping or remove a previous mapping.
.PP
The
.BR init (8)
utility uses
.B initsock
with the
.BR netconfig (5)
file during the booting sequence.
.\"
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The following command options are supported:
.TP
[\fB-f\fP, \fB--file\fP [\fIfilename\fP]]
Establish the socket configuration according to the information in
.IR filename ;
or, if
.I filename
is not specified,
.BR /etc/netconfig .
This is the default behaviour of
.B initsock
if no other command options are specified.
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--delete\fP
Delete all protocol mapping entries.
.TP
\fB-a\fP, \fB--add\fP \fIfamily\fP \fItype\fP \fIproto\fP \fIdev\fP
Add a protocol mapping entry, where,
.IR family ,
.IR type " and "
.IR proto
correspond to the equivalent arguments to the
.BR socket (3)
or
.BR socketpair (3)
call, and
.I dev
is the full pathname to the trasnport service provider
.BR clone (4)
device that will be used to support the socket.
This option may be specified multiple times.
.PP
One of
.BR -f ", " -d ", or " -a
must be specified.  If none of these options are provided on the command line,
.B -f
is assumed.
.PP
The following options are supported:
.TP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--check\fP
Check what would be the result of the operation without making any changes to the kernel protocol
mapping.  This options is useful for returning diagnostic messages and error codes without altering
the current system behavior.
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB--chardev\fP \fIpath\fP
Specifies the full path to a character device special file that will be opened for performing the
.BR ioctl (2)
operations necessary to accomplish the functions of this utility.  The character special file shoud
be a
.BR clone (4)
.IR STREAMS (9)
device.  The default device is
.BR /dev/ticlts .
.PP
The following general options are supported:
.TP
\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR
Specifies that the caller is interested only in the return code and error diagnostics and that
normal output should be suppressed.
The default verbosity level if this option is not specified is
.BR 1 .
This option is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=0 .
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR[=][\fILEVEL\fR]
Increases or sets the verbosity level.  When this option is given without the
.I LEVEL
argument, it specifies that the verbosity level should be increased by one.  If the
.I LEVEL
argument is specified, the verbosity level is set to that integer value.  This option can be
repeated.
The default verbosity level if this option is not specified is
.BR 1 .
For example,
.B -vvvv
is equivalent to
.BR --verbose=5 .
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
When this option is encountered,
print usage information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
When this option is encountered,
print version information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.TP
\fB-C\fR, \fB--copying\fR
When this option is encountered,
print copying information to
.I stdout
and exit.
Note that all options specified following this option are ignored.
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
The following arguments are supported:
.TP
.I family
The protocol family as listed in the
.RB < sys/socket.h >
file, expressed as an integer.
Symbolic names may also be used in the
.I family
field.  Supported symbolic names are as follows:
.sp
.RS
.TS
tab(:);
lll.
AF_UNSPEC:AF_ATMPVC:AF_PACKET
AF_LOCAL:AF_X25:AF_ASH
AF_UNIX:AF_INET6:AF_ECONET
AF_FILE:AF_ROSE:AF_ATMSVC
AF_INET:AF_DECnet:AF_SNA
AF_AX25:AF_NETBEUI:AF_IRDA
AF_IPX:AF_SECURITY:AF_PPPOX
AF_APPLETALK:AF_KEY:AF_WANPIPE
AF_NETROM:AF_NETLINK:AF_BLUETOOTH
AF_BRIDGE:AF_ROUTE:
.TE
.RE
.TP
.I type
The socket types as listed in the
.RB < sys/socket.h >
file, expressed as an integer.
Symbolic names may also be used in the
.I type
field.  Supported symbolic names are as follows:
.sp
.RS
.TS
tab(:);
ln.
SOCK_STREAM:1
SOCK_DGRAM:2
SOCK_RAW:3
SOCK_RDM:4
SOCK_SEQPACKET:5
SOCK_PACKET:10
.TE
.RE
.TP
.I protocol
The protocol number as specified in the family-specific include file,
expressed as an integer.  For example, for
.B AF_INET
this number is specified in
.RB < netinet/in.h >.
An unspecified protocol number is denoted with the value zero.
Symbolic names may also be used in the
.I protocol
field.  Supported symbolic names are as follows (e.g. for
.BR AF_INET ):
.sp
.RS
.TS
tab(:);
lll.
IPPROTO_IP:IPPROTO_IDP:IPPROTO_ICMPV6
IPPROTO_HOPOPTS:IPPROTO_TP:IPPROTO_NONE
IPPROTO_ICMP:IPPROTO_IPV6:IPPROTO_DSTOPTS
IPPROTO_IGMP:IPPROTO_ROUTING:IPPROTO_MTP
IPPROTO_IPIP:IPPROTO_FRAGMENT:IPPROTO_ENCAP
IPPROTO_TCP:IPPROTO_RSVP:IPPROTO_PIM
IPPROTO_EGP:IPPROTO_GRE:IPPROTO_COMP
IPPROTO_PUP:IPPROTO_ESP:IPPROTO_RAW
IPPROTO_UDP:IPPROTO_AH:
.TE
.RE
.IP ""
Additional symbolic names are supported for other protocol families.  Use the
.B --help
and
.B --versbose
options to list all available symbolic names.
.TP
.I dev
The string that specifies the full path name of the device that corresponds to the
transport provider.  If this parameter is specified, the configuration will be
added for the specified
.IR family ", " type " and " protocol .
.\"
.\"
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.PP
See
.BR netconfig (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
.PP
When
.B initsock
fails, it prints a diagnostic message to
.I stderr
and exits with a non-zero return code.  The following return codes are
generated under the following conditions:
.TP
0
Execution was successful.  All arguments or all lines of the specified
.I FILE
were processed successfully.
.TP
1
Execution was unsuccessful.  Arguments were valid, however, processing of the
specified path or processing of one of the paths contained in the specified
.I FILE
failed.
A diagnostic message is normally printed on
.IR stderr .
This could result in the partial population of the kernel socket
mapping if some lines were processed successfully and one failed.
.TP
2
An invalid parameter was provided or the number or combination of arguments
and options was invalid.
A diagnostic message is normally printed on
.IR stderr .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B initsock
is normaly invoked from the
.B @PACKAGE@
or
.B @PACKAGE@.sh
init script and not directly by the user or adminstrator.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMETNATION
.PP
.B initsock
is more difficult to implement than the
.IR Solaris \(rg
equivalent,
.BR soconfig (8).
This is because the
.BR netconfig (5)
file does not contain sufficient information to specify the mapping from
.IR family ", " type " and " proto
to the
.I STREAMS (9)
devices without additional information.
.PP
It is,
in fact,
unable to handle most interesting configurations of protocols other than
.BR inet " or " inet6 .
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following example sets up
.B /dev/tcp
for family
.B inet
and type
.BR stream .
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
$> initsock 2 2 0 /dev/tcp
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
The following is a sample file used with the
.B -f
option.  Comment lines begin with an octothorpe (#).
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#
# Network configuration database file.
#
udp6       tpi_clts      v  inet6     udp  /dev/upd6       -
tcp6       tpi_cots_ord  v  inet6     tcp  /dev/tcp6       -
udp        tpi_clts      v  inet      udp  /dev/udp        -
tcp        tpi_cots_ord  v  inet      tcp  /dev/tcp        -
rawip      tpi_raw       -  inet      -    /dev/rawip      -
ticlts     tpi_clts      v  loopback  -    /dev/ticlts     straddr.so
ticots     tpi_cots      v  loopback  -    /dev/ticots     straddr.so
ticotsord  tpi_cots_ord  v  loopback  -    /dev/ticotsord  straddr.so
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DEVICES
.PP
.TP
.B /dev/ticlts
The default device for peforming kernel mapping configuration.
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP
.B /etc/netconfig
The network configuration database, see
.BR netconfig (5).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR init (8),
.BR netconfig (5),
.BR soconfig (8).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B initsock
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.B initsock
is compatible with
.IR UnixWare \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Many
.IR UNIX \(rg
implementations moved away from using the
.BR /etc/netconfig
approach and the
.BR sockmod (4)
.IR STREAMS (9)
module for providing mapping from the
.BR socket (3)
call to the appropriate underlying transport provider
.IR STREAMS (9)
device.  Mapping is now maintained in the kernel using the
.B SIOCPROTO
and
.B SIOCXPROTO
input-output controls.  It was, therefore, necessary to provide some utility to initialize the
kernel mapping entries:
.IR UnixWare \(rg
provided the
.BR initsock (8)
command, whereas,
.IR Solaris \(rg
provided the
.BR soconfig (8)
command.  For compatibility,
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
provides both.
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
does not document long options.
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
does not document the
.BR -f ", " -q ", " -h " or " -V options.
.IP \(em
The
.BR -v " and " -C
options are incompatible.
.IP \(em
Options
.BR --help " and " --version
are provided for compatibilty with GNU coding standards;
.BR --copying ,
OpenSS7 coding standards.
.IP \(em
The format of the output from the
.B initsock
command may be different from that of
.IR UnixWare \(rg.
.IP \(em
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
ues the same format of argments and file as described here with one extension: it is possible to use
symbolic names (e.g,
.BR AF_INET )
for the
.IR family ", " type " and " proto
fields.  However, not all symbolic names are populated in the
.B initsock
command.
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
does not support symbolic names (e.g,
.BR AF_INET )
for the fields and expects only the fields specified in
.BR netconfig (5).
.IP \(em
The mechanism that actually uses the kernel-populated socket mapping is different under
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.IP \(em
At boot time, the kernel mapping is populated using the
.B initsock
or
.BR soconfig (8)
command and the
.BR /etc/netconfig
or
.BR /etc/sock2path
configuration file.  This is performend with the
.B @PACKAGE@
or
.B @PACKAGE@.sh
init script and not directly by the
.BR init (8)
process.
.IP \(em
The default device under
.IR UnixWare \(rg
is
.BR /dev/ticlts ,
whereas under
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
it is
.BR /dev/socksys .
.IP \(em
The
.B initsock
utility is only compatible with
.IR UnixWare \(rg
for the purposes of populating the kernel mapping used by
.BR libsocket (3)
in the
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
package.
Any other use of the
.B initsock
command is unsupported.
.PP
See
.BR "@PACKAGE_UCNAME@" (8)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR UnixWare \(rg
docmentation.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B initsock
utility first appeared in
.IR UnixWare "\(rg " 7.1.3 .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
