.TH DVI2PS L 11/21/85
.SH NAME
dvi2ps \- convert a DVI file to PostScript
(PostScript is a trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
.B dvi2ps
[-a
.IR fontpath ]
[-b
.IR prefix ]
[-d] [-f
.IR n ]
[-h] [-i
.IR file ]
[-m
.IR n ]
[-n
.IR n ]
[-o
.IR fmt ]
[-p] [-q] [-r] [-s] [-t
.IR n ]
[-z
.IR increment ]
dvifile[.dvi]
.in -.5i
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program converts a DVI file to PostScript, and writes the result
to standard output.
The result requires a small amount of PostScript
source to precede it to the printer, before it can be successfully printed.
(By default, that PostScript code is prepended to the output).
Note that the argument-key letters can be in  either case.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.BI \-a \ fontpath
specify a different area for font files.
Specifying this causes the directories in
.I fontpath
to be searched for all font files, instead of the default directory.
This will override the TEXFONTS environment variable, if it exists.
Unless USEPXL has been defined, the default is to use gf files
rather than pxl files.
.TP
.BI \-b \ prefix
generate multiple output files in the current directory using
the named prefix.
Each file will contain consecutive pages from the input.
This allows very large TeX jobs to be easily spooled to a
PostScript device.
(See also the \fB\-z\fR switch.)
.TP
.B \-d
select debugging output (you probably don't want to).
.TP
.BI \-f \ n
specify a starting page number.
(this is a TeX page number -- \\count0).
.TP
.B \-h
do not copy the standard header file.
This option prevents the standard PostScript header file being
prepended to the output.
.TP
.BI \-i \ file
copy the named file to the output
The contents of the file named will be copied to the output
after the standard header file (if any) has been copied.
.TP
.BI \-m x
where
.I x
is one of 0,h,1,2,3,4
specifies a magstep to use to print the document.
This overrides whatever might be in the DVI file.
.TP
.BI \-m \ n
specify a magnification to use to print the document.
This should probably be one of the magic numbers
1000, 1095, 1200, 1440, 1728, but no checking is done.
Note: if your site does not have the
complete set of 300 dpi fonts, this option might be disabled.
.TP
.BI \-n \ n
specify the number of copies to print
.TP
.BI \-o \ fmt
specify a printing format.
Valid options are
.I letter,
.I note,
.I legal,
.I landscape
and
.I manualfeed
This argument may be repeated several times.
.TP
.B \-p
do not preload font information.
Occasionally there may be insufficent memory to hold the
information about all of the fonts in the system.
Portions of the document may be converted by including the -p option
on the command line.
This will prevent the preloading of
fonts into the system and instead use demand loading of
the font tables. 
It will also cause the printing of pages in normal (unreversed)
order.
.TP
.B \-q
be quiet.
Don't chatter about pages converted, etc.
.TP         
.B \-r
stack pages in forward order.  
Normally, the DVI pages are processed in reverse order, with the
result that they are stacked in the correct order in the output
tray.
This option inverts that.
.TP
.B \-s
turn on printing of statistics.
Some versions of dvi2ps will optionally print statistics about
font usage and some other information that is generally only 
interesting to developers.
On these systems,
.B \-s
turns on the statistics printing.
.TP
.BI \-t \ n
specify an ending page number.
.TP
.B \-w
Don't print out warnings.
.TP
.BI \-z \ increment
defines the maximum number of pages to occur in an output file.
This switch is interpreted only if the \fB\-b\fR option is also given.
The default increment is 12 pages.
For jobs using large fonts (e.g., SLiTeX jobs),
it may be necessary to change the increment to 8 or 10 pages.
.SH NOTES
This is a `bare bones' DVI-to-PostScript program.
Minimal error checking is done.
.PP
Not all fonts are available in the resolution needed to display on the 
laser printer;
when a missing font is encountered,
.I dvi2ps
will continue 
to process your dvi file, and and will log a warning message.
Gaps will appear in the document where the missing characters should have been.
.PP
It can take up to 60 seconds for the first page to be output.
After a head of steam has been built up, it can roll along at 5-10 seconds
per page.
.PP
.B TeX
.I \\\\special
.B command:
.sp
This program supports use of the
.B \\\\special
command in TeX to include
special PostScript code for graphics, etc.
Specifying
.B \\\\special{psfile=foo.ps}
in the TeX source will result in the contents
of file
.I foo.ps
(assumed to contain PostScript code) being copied 
into the output at that point.
For most included graphics, the
users (0,0) point will be set to the point of the \\special command
with x and y coordinates increasing up and to the right and in units
of PostScript points (72/inch) -- thus you must explicitly leave space
above the \\special command for most graphics.
For graphics produced by 
Apple Macintoshes (i.e., MacDraw, MacPaint, etc.), the top left corner of 
the drawing will be at the point of the \\special command; in this case you 
must leave the required space below the \\special.
.PP
The \\special string can contain any number of the following 
.I keyword=value
pairs, seperated by blanks:
.sp
.nf
.na
Keyword		Value Type
-------		----------
psfile		string	- specifies a PostScript file to include
hsize		dimension	- specifies maximum horizontal size (for clipping)
vsize		dimension	- specifies maximum vertical size (for clipping)
hoffset		dimension	- specifies amount to shift right
voffset		dimension	- specifies amount to shift up (or down, for MacDrwgs)
hscale		number	- specifies a scale factor in x-dimension
vscale		number	- specifies a scale factor in y-dimension
.fi
.ad
.sp
.ce
dimensions are given in PostScript points (72 per inch).
.sp
THUS:
.sp
.ce
\\special{psfile=foo.ps hoffset=72 hscale=0.9 vscale=0.9}
.sp
will shift the graphics produced by file
.I foo.ps
right by 1 inch, and will draw it at 0.9 normal size.
.PP
hsize and vsize are given relative to the (0,0) point of the drawing
and are unaffected by offsets and scales.
.PP
offsets are given relative to the point of the \\special command,
and are unaffected by scales.
.PP
If Macintosh drawings are to be included, the proper LaserPrep file
must be downloaded to the printer, either permanently or as another
header file in addition to the standard "tex.ps" header file.
.SH FILES
.TP 2.5i
*.dvi
TeX DeVice Independent output file
.TP 2.5i
/usr/lib/tex/fonts/*.{pxl,gf}
TeX default font rasters
.TP 2.5i
/usr/lib/tex/tex.ps
PostScript support code.
.SH SEE ALSO
tex
.SH BUGS
Probably too numerous to mention.
.PP
There is likely a limit to the size of documents that can be printed (at 
least, on the Apple LaserWriter).
If you get VMerrors reported when printing, use the
.I -f
and
.I -t
options, to select a range of pages.
The exact limit is unknown, but is probably well in excess of 50 pages
for "normal" documents, decreasing with number of different fonts used,
size of fonts, etc.
Alternately,
just use the
.I -b
and
.I -z
options to have the program automatically generate multiple PostScript files.
.PP
If the Mac LaserPrep file has been loaded, offsets, sizes and scales
in \\special{} will not work properly for non-Macintosh graphics (don't ask).
.SH AUTHOR(s)
Mark Senn wrote the early versions of this program for the
BBN BitGraph.
Stephan Bechtolsheim, Bob Brown, Richard
Furuta, James Schaad and Robert Wells improved it.
Norm Hutchinson ported the program to the Sun.
Neal Holtz ported
it to the Apollo, and then to produce PostScript.
