'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: alloclk.9.man,v 0.9.2.13 2005/11/30 00:56:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/30 00:56:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH ALLOCLK 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B alloclk
\- allocate a
.I STREAMS
link block
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.B struct linkblk *alloclk(void)
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP 
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR alloclk ()
allocates a
.BR linkblk (9)
link block structure for use in performing regular and persistent linking of Streams beneath a
multiplexing driver as part of an
.BR I_LINK (7)
or
.BR I_PLINK (7)
.BR ioctl (2s)
operation.
.SS /proc File System
.PP
A
.BR linkblk (9)
is dynamically allocated for every Stream linked under a multiplexing driver.
.BR alloclk ()
monitors the number of
.BR linkblk (9)
link blocks currently allocated, and the high water mark for allocations since the last reboot.
The counts and high water mark can be viewed in
.BR proc (5)
file system under
.BR /proc/streams/strinfo .
See
.BR strinfo (5)
for details. 
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR alloclk ()
is an internal function, and is not recommended for direct use by
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
.PP
.BR alloclk ()
is used by the
Stream head
to allocate a link block.  The link block is used by the
Stream head
both for populating an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message block for use by the
.BR I_LINK (7),
and
.BR I_PLINK (7),
input-output controls, as well as for tracking
Streams
that are linked under a multiplexing driver.
.PP
For details of the link block structure,
see
.BR linkblk (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR alloclk ()
will return a link block.
Upon failure,
.BR alloclk ()
will return a 
.BR NULL
pointer.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When an error occurs,
.BR alloclk ()
will return a
.B NULL
pointer.
.BR alloclk ()
fails when there is insufficient cache memory to satisfy the allocation request.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR alloclk ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures, call outs, callbacks,
soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR alloclk ()
is MP-safe.  The caller has exclusive access to the returned link block.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR alloclk ()
is an internal function, and is not recommended for usage by
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR linkblk (9),
.BR I_LINK (7),
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR proc (5),
.BR strinfo (5),
.BR M_IOCTL (9),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR alloclk ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR alloclk ()
is compatible with descriptions of
.I STREAMS
internals for
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
magic
%P Chapter 7
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" ,
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
do not export this function.
.IP ""
.BR alloclk ()
is a
.I STREAMS
internal implementation specific function and will not be used directly by
portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
.IP \(em
Source and binary compatibility is not guaranteed, even from version to version, or release to
release.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR alloclk ()
is an internal function specific to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
and has not be subjected to standardization.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR alloclk ()
is specific to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
