'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: autopush_vml.9.man,v 0.9.2.10 2005/05/11 20:09:20 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/11 20:09:20 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH AUTOPUSH_VML 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B autopush_vml
\- finds an autopush list entry for a given \fISTREAMS\fP device number
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/sad.h>
.HP
.BI "int autopush_vml(struct str_mlist *" smp ", int " nmods );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I smp
a pointer to a
.B str_mlist
structure containing the list of module names to verify.
.TP
.I nmods
the number of module names in the
.B str_mlist
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR autopush_vml ()
performs the same function within the kernel as is provided to user space via
the
.B SAD_VML
IO control to the
.BR sad (4)
.I STREAMS
Adminstrative Driver.
This function verifies that a module list is valid (loaded on the system).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR autopush_vml ()
is a
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" -specific
function.
.BR autopush_vml ()
should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.  Instead, the
user-space
.I STREAMS
autopush utility
.BR sad (8)
should be used instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR autopush_vml ()
returns zero (9) to indicate that all of the modules in the specified module
list are loaded on the system.
Upon failure,
.BR autopush_vml ()
returns one (1) if an invalid name is present in the list, or returns a
negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR autopush_vml ()
fails and returns a negative error number as follows:
.TP \w'\ [EINVAL]\ 'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I nmods
is less than one (1).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR autopush_vml ()
can only be called from user context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR autopush_vml ()
is MP-safe.
The caller is responsible to ensure exclusive access to the passed in
module list,
.IR smp .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR autopush_vml ()
has the side effect that if a \fISTREAMS\fP module corresponds to a
kernel-module, the call will load the kernel module: meaning, this function
has the side effect of calling
.BR request_module (9)
for some of the module names in the module list, whether the control is
successful or not.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sad (4),
.BR autopush_add (9),
.BR autopush_del (9),
.BR register_strdev (9),
.BR unregsiter_strdev (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR autopush_vml ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR autopush_vml ()
is a
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
LfS
.]
specific function and should not be used by portable \fISTREAMS\fP modules and
drivers.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR autopush_vml ()
is new for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
