'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: autopush.9.man,v 0.9.2.7 2005/11/28 13:20:08 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/28 13:20:08 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: autopush.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2005/11/28 13:20:08  brian
.\" - updating manpages for release
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH AUTOPUSH 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B autopush
\- perform autopush operations on a newly opened Stream
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.PD 0
.HP
.B #include <sys/strsubr.h>
.PD
.HP
\fBautopush(struct stdata *\fIsd\fB, struct cdevsw *\fIcdev\fB, dev_t *\fIdevp\fB, int \fIoflag\fB, int \fIsflag\fB, cred_t *\fIcrp\fB);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\fIoflag\fR\(em'u
.I sd
newly opened Stream head
.BR stdata (9)
structure pointer;
.PD 0
.TP
.I cdev
character device switch table entry (driver) for the Stream;
.TP
.I devp
device number pointer
(returned from
.IR qi_qopen (9));
.TP
.I oflag
file flags
(same as passed to
.IR qi_qopen (9));
.TP
.I sflag
.I STREAMS
flag
(same as passed to
.IR qi_qopen (9));
.TP
.I crp
pointer to credentials of opening process
(same as passed to
.IR qi_qopen (9)).
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR autopush ()
is a utility called by the Stream head,
.BR sth (4),
for a driver when a new Stream to the driver has just opened successfully to perform the autopush
operations specified for the Stream.
.PP
The procedure calls
.BR autopush_find (9)
to locate the autopush specification for the driver minor device node, if any.  If there is no
autopush specification for the minor device node, the function succeeds and returns immediately.
Otherwise, each module in the autopush specification is pushed in turn onto the Stream.  If the push
operation should fail for a module, the error code is remembered and every module pushed so far is
popped from the Stream.
.BR autopush ()
then exits, returning the saved error code.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR autopush ()
is only used by the Stream head,
.BR sth (4),
and should not be used by any portable
.I STREAMS
module or driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR autopush ()
succeeds, it returns zero
.RB ( 0 );
when it fails, a negative error number indicating the cause of the failure.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR autopush ()
fails, it returns an negative error number indicating the cause of the failure as follows:
.TP \w'[\fBEWOULDBLOCK\fR]\(em'u
.RB [ EIO ]
a module on the autopush list could not be located on the system;
.TP
.RB [ EIO ]
a module on the autopush list was found, but did not have a
.BR streamtab (9)
structure associated with the module switch table entry,
.BR fmodsw (9);
.PP
In addition, any error returned by
.BR qattach (9)
when called to push the module can be returned by
.BR autopush ().
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR autopush ()
is called by the Stream head from
.BR stropen (9).
.BR stropen (9)
is invoked in process context and the user is the user that called the
.BR open (2s)
system call that resulted in
.BR stropen (9)
being called.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR autopush ()
is intended to be called only during
.BR stropen (9)
within the Stream head.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR autopush ()
is only exported for use by the Stream head,
.BR sth (4),
when loaded as a separate kernel module.  This function should never be invoked directly by portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR stdata (9),
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.BR sth (4),
.BR autopush_find (9),
.BR streamtab (9),
.BR fmodsw (9),
.BR qattach (9),
.BR stropen (9),
.BR open (2s).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR autopush ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR autopush ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4spg
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR autopush ()
is roughly compatible with the internal operations described for
.IR "SVR 4 STREAMS"
in
.RI \(lq "The Magic Garden Explained" \(rq.
.[
magic
.]
.IP ""
.BR autopush ()
is an internal function that will not be called by portable
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR autopush ()
is new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
