'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: autopush_add.9.man,v 0.9.2.16 2006/04/05 09:44:09 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:09 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: autopush_add.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.16  2006/04/05 09:44:09  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH AUTOPUSH_ADD 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B autopush_add
\- add an autopush list entry for a given \fISTREAMS\fP device number
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stropts.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/sad.h>
.HP
.BI "int autopush_add(struct strapush *" sap );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I sap
A pointer to a
.B strapush
structure describing the autopush information to add.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
implementation extension.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR autopush_add ()
performs the same function within the kernel as is provided to user space via
the
.B SAD_SAP
IO control to the
.IR "STREAMS Administrative Driver" ,
.BR sad (4).
This function adds an autopush list to a \fISTREAMS\fP character device.  The
character device and autopush list is specified by
.IR sap ,
which is a pointer to a
.B strapush
structure formatted as follows:
.nf
\fC\s-1
struct strapush {
        unit_t ap_cmd;
        major_t sap_major;
        minor_t sap_minor;
        minor_t sap_lastminor;
        unit_t sap_npush;
        unit_t sap_list[MAXAPUSH][FMNAMESZ + 1];
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.TP \w'\ sap_lastminor\ 'u
.I ap_cmd
Not meaningful.
.BR autopush_add ()
ignores the value in this member.
.I ap_cmd
must be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\ SAD_RANGE\ 'u
.B SAD_ONE
the single character minor device number with which to associate the autopush list is
specified in
.IR sap_minor .
In this case
.I sap_lastminor
will always be set to the same value as
.IR sap_minor .
.TP
.B SAD_RANGE
the range of character minor device numbers with which to associate the
autopush list is specified in
.IR sap_minor " and " sap_lastminor .
.TP
.B SAD_ALL
the range of character minor device numbers with which to associated the
autopush list is the range of all minor devices.  In this case,
.I sap_minor
will always be set to zero (0) and
.I sap_lastminor
will always be set to
.BR MAX_CHRDEV .
.RE
.TP
.I sap_major
The character major device number associated with the \fISTREAMS\fP device to
which this autopush list is to be added.
.TP
.I sap_minor
The first character minor device number in a range associated with the
\fISTREAMS\fP device to which this autopush list belongs.  This value is only
significant if
.I ap_cmd
is
.BR SAD_ONE " or " SAD_RANGE .
.TP
.I sap_lastminor
The last character minor device number in a range associated with the
\fISTREAMS\fP device to which this autopush list belongs.  This value is only
significant if
.I ap_cmd
is
.BR SAD_RANGE .
When significant, the value of
.I sap_lastminor
must be greater than or equal to the value of
.IR sap_minor .
.TP
.I sap_npush
The number of modules in the autopush list.  This number must be greater than
or equal to one and less than or equal to
.BR MAXAPUSH .
.TP
.I sap_list
The array of module names that contains
.I sap_npush
module names representing the module autopush list.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.BR autopush_add ()
is useful along with
.BR autopush_del (9)
and
.BR autopush_find (9)
when registering \fISTREAMS\fP character devices with
.BR register_strdev (9).
.BR autopush_add ()
permits a kernel module to add an autopush list to a \fISTREAMS\fP device.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR autopush_add ()
is a
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" -specific
function.
.BR autopush_add ()
should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.  Instead, the
user-space
.I STREAMS
autopush utility
.BR sad (8)
should be used instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR autopush_add ()
adds the autopush list
specified by
.I sap
and returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR autopush_add ()
does not add the specified autopush list
.I sap
and returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR autopush_add ()
fails, it returns an appropriate negative error number as follows:
.TP \w'\ [EEXIST]\ 'u
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I sap_major
was invalid.
.I sap_major
must be in the range from zero (0) to
.BR MAX_CHRDEV .
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I sap_minor
was invalid.
.I sap_minor
must be in the range from zero (0) to 255.
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I sap_npush
is less than one (1) or greater than
.BR MAXAPUSH .
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I sap_list
contains invalid information (e.g. zero length names or names that are not
null terminated after
.BR FMNAMESZ
characters).
.TP
.RB [ ERANGE ]
.I sap_lastminor
was significant, yet less than
.IR sap_minor .
.TP
.RB [ ENOSTR ]
.IR sap_major ", " sap_minor " and " sap_lastminor
specify a character device minor node that is not associated with a
\fISTREAMS\fP device.
.TP
.RB [ EEXIST ]
an autopush entry for the specified minor device number
.RI ( sap_minor ),
or a subset of the specified range of minor device numbers
.RI ( sap_minor " and " sap_lastminor ),
already exists.
.TP
.RB [ ENOSR ]
insufficient \fISTREAMS\fP resources were available to successfully complete
the call.  This is caused by the inability to allocate cache storage to hold
the autopush description.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR autopush_add ()
can only be called from user context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR autopush_add ()
is MP-safe.  The caller is responsible to ensure exclusive access to the
passed in
.B strapush
structure
.IR sap .
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR autopush_add ()
simply adds the
.B strapush
structure
specified by
.I sap
to the specified \fISTREAMS\fP character device.  The module name list added
is not validated, and no modules are loaded as a side-effect of the addition.
.BR autopush_add ()
will, however, attempt to load a kernel module associated with the character
major device number specified by
.IR sap_major ,
if the associated kernel module has not been loaded.  See
.BR register_strdev (9)
for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sad (4),
.BR autopush_del (9),
.BR autopush_find (9),
.BR register_strdev (9),
.BR unregsiter_strdev (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR autopush_add ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR autopush_add ()
is a
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
LfS
.]
specific function.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR autopush_add ()
is a
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
LfS
.]
specific function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS 
drivers and modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR autopush_add ()
is new for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
.[
LfS
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
