'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: bcanputnextany.9.man,v 0.9.2.5 2005/12/02 12:05:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/12/02 12:05:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH BCANPUTNEXTANY 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B bcanputnextany
\- check if message can be put to any (non-zero) band on the next queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int bcanputnextany(queue_t *" q ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the
.BR queue (9)
forward from which to check.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
implementation extension.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR bcanputnextany ()
checks the next
.BR queue (9)
from the specified queue,
.IR q ,
that has a
.IR qi_srvp (9)
service procedure defined, or which has a
.B NULL
.I q_next
pointer.
.PP
For that queue, if the number of blocked queue bands,
.IR q_blocked ,
is less than the number of available queue bands,
.IR q_nband ,
then a message can be written to some non-zero message band.
.PP
When the number of blocked bands,
.IR q_blocked ,
is equal to the number of available bands,
.IR q_nband ,
and even if
.I q_nband
is zero, then there is no available non-zero message band that will accept messages.
Message bands to which no message have been written to at least once (i.e., do not have a
.BR qband (9)
structure) are not checked.
This is the same as the
.BR POLLWRBAND ,
.BR S_WRBAND ,
events or
.BR I_CANPUT (7)
command with the
.B ANYBAND
flag as a argument.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR bcanputnextany ()
is a variation of
.BR bcanputany (9)
that starts instead with the queue past the specified queue.
.BR bcanputnextany ()
is used by the Stream head in support of the
.BR POLLWRBAND
flag to the
.BR poll (2s)
system call and the
.BR I_CANPUT (7)
.BR ioctl (2s)
command with the
.B ANYBAND
flag.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When there exists an available, non-zero band, that is not flow controlled forward from the
queue,
.IR q ,
.BR bcanputnextany ()
returns true
.RB ( 1 );
otherwise, it returns false
.RB ( 0 ).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR bcanputnextany ()
always succeeds.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR bcanputnextany ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures, callouts, callbacks, soft
interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.BR bcanputnextany ()
must be called from a syncrhonous context [see
.BR mp-streams (9)].
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR bcanputnextany ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.
.BR bcanputnextany ()
cannot be called from an asynchronous context, unless bracketed with
.BR freezestr (9)
and
.BR unfreezestr (9).
.PP
It is possible, due to race conditions in a multiprocessor (MP) system, that
.BR bcanputnextany ()
can be called for a queue and return true (1) and yet the Stream becomes flow controlled before a
call to
.BR putnext (9).
The caller to
.BR putnext (9).
is then in violation of flow-control rules; however, the extent of this violation is bounded.

.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR bcanputnextany ()
is not a standard
.I STREAMS
function, but it is exported for use by the Stream head,
.BR sth (4),
particularly when the Stream head is built as a separate kernel module.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR queue (9),
.IR qi_srvp (9),
.BR bcanputany (9),
.BR sth (4),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR bcanputnextany ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR bcanputnextany ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4spg
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR bcanputnextany ()
is roughly compatible with the internal operations described for
.IR "SVR 4 STREAMS"
in
.RI \(lq "The Magic Garden Explained" \(rq.
.[
magic
.]
.IP ""
.BR bcanputnextany ()
is an internal function that will not be called by portable
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR bcanputnextany ()
is new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
