'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: bcangetany.9.man,v 0.9.2.3 2005/11/29 10:46:29 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/29 10:46:29 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH BCANGETANY 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B bcangetany
\- check whether messages are in any (non-zero) band
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
\fBstreams_fastcall int bcangetany(queue_t *\fIq\fB);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the
.BR queue (9)
to check for messages.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
implementation extension.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR bcangetany ()
operates like
.BR bcanget (9);
however, it checks for messages in any (non-zero) band, not just in the specified band.  This is
needed by the Stream head for
.BR strpoll (9)
and
.BR I_CKBAND (7)
processing in the Stream head to know when to set the
.B POLLRDBAND
flags (see
.BR poll (2)).
.PP
Also,
.BR bcangetany ()
returns the band number of the highest priority band with messages.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR bcangetany ()
is used by the Stream head,
.BR sth (4),
to implement support for the
.BR poll (2s)
system call from the Stream head
.BR strpoll (9)
entry point, as well the
.BR ioctl (2s)
.BR I_CKBAND (7)
operation.

.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR bcangetany ()
returns the message band number,
.IR b_band ,
of the highest priority, non-zero band, messages on the queue,
.IR q ,
or zero if no normal priority message with a non-zero band,
.IR b_band ,
exists on the queue,
.IR q .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR bcangetany ()
always succeeds.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR bcangetany ()
is called by
.BR strpoll (9)
or
.BR strioctl (9).
.BR strpoll (9)
and
.BR strioctl (9)
are called at process context, where the user is the user that invoked the
.BR poll (2s)
or
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
This function take a
.BR queue (9)
read lock, held while it walks the message queue.  This function cannot be called with a
.BR queue (9)
write lock held or single-party deadlock will result.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR bcangetany ()
is only exported for use by the Stream head,
.BR sth (4),
when loaded as a separate kernel module.  This function should never be invoked directly by portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The current implementation walks the message queue instead of walking queue bands as was done
before.  The current implementation is much faster than the previous approach of waking queue bands,
even considering that there were probably few, if any, queue bands.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR queue (9),
.BR bcanget (9),
.BR strpoll (9),
.BR I_CKBAND (7),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR poll (2),
.BR sth (4),
.BR poll (2s),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR bcangetany ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR bcangetany ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4spg
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR bcangetany ()
is roughly compatible with the internal operations described for
.IR "SVR 4 STREAMS"
in
.RI \(lq "The Magic Garden Explained" \(rq.
.[
magic
.]
.IP ""
.BR bcangetany ()
is an internal function that will not be called by portable
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR bcangetany ()
is new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
