'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: bcanput.9.man,v 0.9.2.33 2008-04-28 12:53:48 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:48 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: bcanput.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.33  2008-04-28 12:53:48  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.32  2007/03/31 15:50:11  brian
.\" - flow control corrections
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.31  2006/04/05 09:44:09  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH BCANPUT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B bcanput
\- test flow control on a \fISTREAMS\fP message queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int bcanput(queue_t *" q ", int " band );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue from which to begin testing for flow control.
.PD 0
.TP
.I band
the priority band within which to test for flow control.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR bcanput ()
checks whether the
Stream
is flow controlled starting at
.IR q ,
and for
.IR band .
.BR bcanput ()
looks for the first queue with a
.IR qi_srvp (9)
service procedure, or no next queue (i.e. the
.I q_next
pointer is
.BR NULL ).
.PP
If the first queue has the
.B QFULL
.RI ( band " == 0)
or
.B QB_FULL
.RI ( band " >= 1)
flag clear indicating that it is not full
for the specified
.IR band ,
or a
.BR qband (9)
structure does not yet exist for the specified band
.RI ( band " >= 1),
then
.BR bcanput ()
will return
.I true
.RB ( 1 ).
.PP
If the first queue has the
.B QFULL
.RI ( band " == 0)
or
.B QB_FULL
.RI ( band " >= 1)
flag set indicating that it is full
for the specified
.IR band ,
and a
.BR qband (9)
structure exists for the specified band
.RI ( band " >= 1),
then
.BR bcanput ()
will set the
.B QWANTW
.RI ( band " == 0)
or
.BR QB_WANTW
.RI ( band " >= 1)
flag and return
.I false
.RB ( 0 ).
.PP
.BR bcanput ()
sets the
.B QWANTW
or
.B QB_WANTW
flag so that
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR getq (9),
.BR flushq (9),
or
.BR flushband (9),
will back-enable the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
service procedure feeding the flow controlled
queue or queue band
once the flow controlled
queue or queue band
is no longer full (i.e. messages have been read from the queue to reduce the
queue or queue band
count beneath the low water mark for the
queue or queue band,
or emptying the queue, clearing the
.BR QFULL " or " QB_FULL
flag).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
It is the responsibility of all
.I STREAMS
drivers putting
a normal priority data message
.RB ( M_PROTO "(9), " M_DATA (9))
to a message queue at a
Stream end
to check for flow control using
.BR canput (9)
or
.BR bcanput (9)
for the
.I b_band
of the message
before placing a message on the queue with
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putq (9).
Each
Stream head,
Stream end
and multiplexing driver
is responsible for checking flow control before passing a message onto a
Stream.
Flow control is checked using one of
.BR canput (9)
or
.BR bcanput (9).
.I STREAMS
modules have different responsibilities, see
.RI \(lq USAGE \(rq
under
.BR canputnext (9)
or
.BR bcanputnext (9).
.PP
.BR canput (9)
and
.BR bcanput (9)
will perform actions on a forward queue with no queue
.IR qi_srvp (9)
service procedure, but for which there is no forward queue
.RI ( q->q_next
is
.BR NULL ).
The reason for this is that a write queue at the Stream end (driver) might remove messages from the
message queue under conditions other than a service procedure.
For example, a driver write queue
.IR qi_putp (9)
put procedure could be designed to place all messages from the data stream onto the message queue.
When a transmit interrupt service routine runs, it can take message off of the queue using
.BR rmvq (9)
and use the messages so removed to fill the device's transmit buffer.  For flow control to work
correctly in this situation,
.BR canput (9)
and
.BR bcanput (9)
must still set the
.B QWANTW
or
.B QB_WANTW
flag when it encounters a driver write queue or queue band with the
.B QFULL
or
.B QB_FULL
flag set, so that
.BR getq (9),
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR flushq (9),
.BR flushband (9),
called from the interrupt service routine will still back-enable the Stream,
[see
.BR qbackenable (9)].
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR bcanput ()
will return
.I false
.RB ( 0 )
when the specified
.I STREAMS
message queue is flow controlled
for the specified band,
and returns
.I true
.RB ( 1 )
when the specified
.I STREAMS
message queue is not flow controlled
for the specified band, or the specified band has not yet been written to.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR bcanput ()
always succeeds for a valid
.IR q .
If
.I q
is invalid, the result is undefined.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR bcanput ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures, callouts, callbacks, soft
interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR bcanput ()
is MP-safe when called from any context.  However, the caller is responsible for the validity of the
passed in queue pointer,
.IR q ,
across the call.
.PP
The validity of either queue in the pair, and either
.I q_next
pointer for a queue in the pair, for the queue pointer passed to a module procedure, callout
or synchronous callback functions, is guaranteed by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
Any queue pointer in the pair passed as an argument to an asynchronous callback function
is also valid, providing the driver or module observes the rules for cancellation of asynchronous
callbacks on close.
.PP
When wishing to test flow control on a driver's read queue from an interrupt service routine, where
there is no
.IR qi_srvp (9)
service procedure defined for the read queue, a more portable approach is to call
.BR put (9)
instead and test flow control from within the read queue's
.IR qi_putp (9)
put procedure.
.PP
It is possible, due to race conditions in a
multiprocessor (MP) system, that
.BR bcanput ()
can be called for a queue and return
.I true
.RB ( 1 )
and yet the
Stream
becomes flow controlled before a
call to
.BR putnext (9).
The caller to
.BR putnext (9)
is then in violation of flow-control rules; however, the extent of this violation is bounded.
It is also possible, that
.BR bcanput ()
can be called for a queue and return
.I false
.RB ( 0 ),
and a queue utility retrieving a message from the full queue causes flow control to subside and the
service procedure of the caller to become back-enabled before the call to
.BR putq (9)
(in the case
.BR bcanput ()
is called from a
.IR qi_putp (9)
put procedure),
or
.BR putbq (9)
(in the case
.BR bcanput ()
is called from a
.IR qi_srvp (9)
service procedure).
In the case that the service procedure runs before
.BR putq (9),
placing the message on the queue will invoke the service procedure again, when necessary.
In the case that the queue was enabled before
.BR putbq (9),
execution of the service procedure will occur after the current service procedure exits.
.PP
Although
.BI bcanput( q->q_next ", " band )
is functionally equivalent to
.BI bcanputnext( q ", " band ),
for the
.BR bcanput (9)
form, the dereference of the
.I q_next
pointer is not protected on some implementations of
.I STREAMS
for MP architectures: on which
.I q_next
may change as a result of a
concurrent reconfiguration of the
Stream
(e.g. an
.BR I_PUSH " or " I_POP
.BR streamio (7)
operation).
For MP operation,
portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will always call
.BR bcanputnext (9)
instead of
.BI bcanput( q->q_next ", " band ).
.PP
For maximum portability and compatibility,
.BI bcanput( q->q_next ", " band )
under
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
is always MP-safe from a module procedure or callout, or synchronous callback function that was
passed
.IR q ,
or the queue pair containing
.IR q ,
(and is even safe for an asynchronous callback function passing
.I q
or
.I q->q_next
that was invoked from a procedure, callout or synchronous callback on
.IR q ).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
It is the responsibility of a
.I STREAMS
driver putting a normal priority \", band zero,
message to a message queue to check for flow control using
.BR bcanput ()
before placing a message on the queue with
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putq (9).
.PP
.BR canputnext (9)
and
.BR bcanputnext (9)
will always be used instead of
.BI canput( q->q_next )
or
.BI bcanput( q->q_next )
by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules
on multiprocessor (MP) systems.
.PP
.BR canput (9)
and
.BR canputnext (9)
are the equivalent of
.BR bcanput ()
and
.BR bcanputnext (9)
with a zero
.IR band :
and are implemented as such.
.PP
Note that there is some conflict in the documentation as to what happens when
.BR bcanput ()
hits the queue at end of the Stream
.RI ( q->q_next
is
.BR NULL )
and the queue has no service procedure.  Some implementations, notably
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7doc
.]
say
.BR bcanput ()
always returns
.IR true
.RB ( 1 )
in this situation.
The
.IR "SVR 4 SPG"
.[
svr4spg
.]
stays that
.BR bcanput ()
searches for the a queue with a service procedure or which has no forward queue and then peforms the
actions.  This also consistent with
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
solspg
.]
behaviour.
The
.IR "SVR 4 SPG" ,
.[
svr4spg
.]
however, also says that if a
.IR qi_putp (9)
put procedure places a message onto its own queue with
.BR putq (9),
that it requires a
.IR qi_srvp (9)
service procedure.
One would not then expect a queue without a service procedure to have anything but an empty message
queue, and in that case,
.BR bcanput ()
can be expected to always return
.I true
.RB ( 1 )
for it.
.PP
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
performs the actions on the queue at the end of the Stream when it is reached regardless of whether
it has a
.IR qi_srvp (9)
service procedure or not.  This is consistent with the description in the
.IR "SVR 4 SPG"
.[
svr4spg
.]
as well as
.IR Solaris \(rg
behaviour.
If such a queue's
.IR qi_putp (9)
put procedure never places message on the queue with
.BR putq (9),
there will be no difference in the values returned to
.BR bcanput ();
if the put procedure does place messages with
.BR putq (9),
without a service procedure,
.BR bcanput ()
will act as expected by the description in the
.IR "SVR 4 SPG" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
See also
.RI \(lq USAGE ,\(rq
above.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
provides the additional feature that
.I band
can be specified as
.BR ANYBAND .
When
.I band
is
.BR ANYBAND ,
.BR bcanput ()
checks whether any band (other than band zero), is not flow controlled.  If a
band exists that is not flow controlled,
.BR bcanput ()
with
.B ANYBAND
returns one (1).
If all existing bands are flow controlled,
.BR bcanput ()
returns zero (0).
.PP
.BR bcanput ()
uses atomic bit operations and does not require locking of the queue
structure.  Therefore,
.BR bcanput ()
can be called for a
.I q
that is frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.\"
.SS Example #1 \(em Put Procedure
.PP
.BR bcanput ()
is normally called before a call to
.BR putq (9)
as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  void
 2  example_putp(queue_t *q, mblk_t *mp)
 3  {
 4      priv_t p = (priv_t *) q->q_ptr;
 5      queue_t *uq = p->upper_queue;
 6  
 7      if (!q->q_count && (mp->b_datap->db_type >= QPCTL
 8                          || bcanput(uq, mp->b_band))) {
 9          /* put to upper if we are empty and upper is
10             not flow controlled */
11          putq(uq, mp);
12      } else {
13          /* put to our own queue otherwise */
14          putq(q, mp);
15      }
16  }
\s+2\fR
.fi
.PP
Above, the example uses
.BR bcanput ()
from the lower queue
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure (in a multiplexing driver) to test the upper queue for flow
control.  If the upper queue is flow controlled, the message is placed on the lower queue.
Otherwise, if the lower queue is empty and the upper queue is not flow controlled, the example
places the message directly on the upper queue.
.PP
Note that the upper queue must have a service procedure.
.\"
.SS Example #2 \(em Interrupt Service Routine
.PP
.BR bcanput ()
is typically called before a call to
.BR put (9)
in a driver interrupt service routine as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  int
 2  example_putp(queue_t *q, mblk_t *mp)
 3  {
 4      if (bcanput(q, mp->b_band)) {
 5          putq(q, mp);
 6      } else {
 7          some_global_flag_dropping = 1;
 8          freemsg(mp);
 9      }
10      return (0);
11  }
12  
13  int
14  example_isr_handler(queue_t *q, caddr_t buf,
15                      size_t len, unsigned char band)
16  {
17      mblk_t *mp;
18  
19      if ((mp = allocb(len, BRPI_HI))) {
20          mp->b_band = band;
21          bcopy(buf, mp->b_wptr, len);
22          mp->b_wptr += len;
23          put(q, mp);
24          return (1);
25      }
26      return (0);
27  }
\s+2\fR
.fi
.PP
The above example is left as an exercise to the reader.
.\"
.SS Example #3 \(em Alternative ISR
.PP
Another alternative for the ISR is to give the read side a service procedure and test before
.BR put (9)
as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  int
 2  example_srvp(queue_t *q)
 3  {
 4      mblk_t *mp;
 5  
 6      while ((mp = getq(q))) {
 7          if (mp->b_datap->db_type >= QPCTL
 8              || (!q->q_first && !(q->q_flag & QSVCBUSY)
 9                  && bcanputnext(q, b->b_band))) {
10              putnext(q, mp);
11              continue;
12          }
13          putbq(q, mp);
14          return (0);
15      }
16  }
17  
18  int
19  example_putp(queue_t *q, mblk_t *mp)
20  {
21      if (mp->b_datap->db_type >= QPCTL
22          || (!q->q_first && !(q->q_flag & QSVCBUSY)
23              && bcanputnext(q, b->b_band))) {
24          putnext(q, mp);
25          return (0);
26      }
27      putq(q, mp);
28      return (0);
29  }
30  
31  int
32  example_isr_handler(queue_t *q, caddr_t buf,
33                      size_t len, int band)
34  {
35      mblk_t *mp;
36  
37      if (!bcanput(q, band))
38          return (0);
39      if ((mp = allocb(len, BPRI_HI))) {
40          bcopy(buf, mp->b_wptr, len);
41          mp->b_wptr += len;
42          put(q, mp);
43          return (1);
44      }
45      return (0);
46  }
\s+2\fP
.fi
.PP
The above example is also left as an excercise to the reader.
.\"
.SS Example #4 \(em Cannonical Module
.PP
Following is an example of the cannonical module band-aware, non-MP, put and service procedure
(for a proper, band-aware, MP-safe example, see
.BR bcanputnext (9)):
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  int
 2  example_putp(queue_t *q, mblk_t *mp)
 3  {
 4      if (mp->b_datap->db_type >= QPCTL) {
 5          putnext(q, mp);
 6      } else if (!q->q_first && bcanput(q->q_next, mp->b_band)) {
 7          putnext(q, mp);
 8      } else {
 9          putq(q, mp);
10      }
11      return (0);
12  }
13  int
14  example_srvp(queue_t *q)
15  {
16      mblk_t *mp;
17  
18      while ((mp = getq(q))) {
19          if (bcanput(q->q_next, mp->b_band)) {
20              putnext(q, mp);
21          } else {
22              putbq(q, mp);
23              break;
24          }
25      }
26      return (0);
27  }
\s+2\fP
.fi
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR putq (9),
.BR canput (9),
.BR canputnext (9),
.BR bcanputnext (9),
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR noenable (9),
.BR enableok (9),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR bcanput ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR bcanput ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4spg
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixdoc
.]
indicates that if a
.BR qband (9)
structure does not exist for
.I band
that
.BR bcanput ()
returns
.I true
.RB ( 1 ).
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
lists
.BR bcanput ()
as a function that can only be passed a queue pointer in the queue pair within
a queue's procedure.
This may indicate subtle differences to the
.IR HP-UX \(rg
implementation.
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
currently has no such restriction; however, based on nuances in the implementation, it is wise not
to pass a queue pointer to
.BR bcanput ()
that does not belong to same
Stream
as the
Stream
from which the
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure is calling.
Also, although there is no current restriction, it is a bad idea to call
.BR bcanput ()
directly from an asynchronous callback or callout, soft interrupt handlers (tasklets), or interrupt
service routines.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not call
.BR bcanput ()
from outside the queue's put or service procedure.
.IP \(em
.BR bcanput ()
always succeeds.  Under
.IR LiS ,
.BR bcanput ()
will return zero (0 - flow controlled) if an internal error occurs, without
setting the
.BR QWANTW " or " QB_WANTW
flag for the queue or band.  This means that, although flow controlled, no
back-enable procedure will be run.  This can lead to indefinite postponement of
a queue
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure under
.IR LiS .
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
.BR bcanput ()
does not have this problem.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will use
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
instead of
.IR LiS .
.IP \(em
The declaration for
.BR bcanput ()
provides that
.I band
is of type
.BR int .
Under
.IR "SVR 4.2 DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and other systems based on
.IR "SVR 4",
.I band
is
.BR "unsigned char" .
.\".IP \(em
.\"Symbol
.\".BR lis_bcanput ()
.\"and
.\".BR lis_bcanput_anyband ()
.\"are provided for compatibility with
.\".IR LiS .
.\"See
.\".BR liscompat (9).
.\".BR lis_bcanput ()
.\"and
.\".BR lis_bcanput_anyband ()
.\"simply call
.\".BR bcanput ()
.\"directly.
.\".IP ""
.\"Portable
.\".I STREAMS
.\"drivers and modules will not access these symbols, but will call
.\".BR bcanput ()
.\"directly.
.IP \(em
.BR bcanput ()
may be called on a
Stream
frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
.[
suxspg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
do not permit
.BR bcanput ()
to be called on a
Stream
frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not call
.BR bcanput ()
on a
Stream
frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.IP \(em
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
documentation
.[
suxspg
.]
states that if the
Stream end
has no
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure that
.BR bcanput ()
will return (1).
This is incorrect behaviour to that described in the
.IR "SVR 4 SPG" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
For example, the
Stream head
does not normally have a read
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure, but uses wakeups from the read side
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure to schedule servicing of the queue.  It is still necessary for
.BR bcanput ()
to fail when the read queue passes its high water mark.
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
will not fail in such a circumstance, making its behaviour inconsistent with other
.IR UNIX \(rg
implementations of
.IR STREAMS .
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should not rely on the behaviour of
.BR bcanput ()
on drivers that have no write side
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure, but which enqueue messages on their write
queues (to be collected using
.BR rmvq (9)
outside the
.I STREAMS
framework).
Such drivers should provide a dummy
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure.
.IP \(em
All versions of
.I LiS
contain the bug that they keep track of message queue counts,
.IR q_count ,
.IR qb_count ,
in terms of the sum of the absolute sizes of the data buffers referenced by message blocks,
.RB ( "db_lim - db_base" ),
and not the sizes of the message blocks themselves,
.RB ( "b_wptr - b_rptr" ),
which does not conform to
.IR "SVR 4.2 STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
See
.BR msgsize (9).
No other implementation has this bug.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications programs, drivers and modules will use
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
instead of
.IR LiS .
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.[
uslspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR bcanput ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
Earlier versions of
.I STREAMS
.RI (e.g. " SVR 3" )
.[
svr3spg
.]
did not have priority bands.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
