'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: bcmp.9.man,v 0.9.2.7 2005/11/30 13:59:23 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/30 13:59:23 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH BCMP 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B bcmp, mi_bcmp
\- compare byte strings
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <linux/string.h>
.HP
.BI "int bcmp(const void *" first ", void *" second ", size_t " len );
.PP
.B #define _MAC_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "int mi_bcmp(const char *" first ", const char *" second ", size_t " len );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I first
a pointer to the first address from which to compare.
.PD 0
.TP
.I second
a pointer to the second address from which to compare.
.TP
.I len
the number of bytes to compare
.IR first " to " second .
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR DDI/DKI .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR bcmp ()
compares
.I len
bytes from the first address
.I first
to the second address
.IR second .
If
.I len
is zero, this function has no effect.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
If the two strings are equal,
.BR bcmp ()
returns 0, otherwise it returns a non-zero result.
If the size,
.IR len ,
is zero, the two strings are assumed to be equal and
.BR bcmp ()
returns 0.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR bcmp ()
always succeeds.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR bcmp ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
call-outs, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR bcmp ()
is MP-safe, provided the caller ensures exclusive access to the memory areas involved.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
preserves this deprecated function.
.BR memcmp (9)
should be used instead.
For older
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers, it is sufficient to define the macro:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2
#define bcmp(first, second, len) (int)memcmp(second, first, len)
\s+2\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR bcopy (9),
.BR bzero (9),
.BR memcpy (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR bcmp ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR bcmp ()
is source-level compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR LiS ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR bcmp ()
is deprecated, use
.BR memcmp (9)
instead.
.IP \(em
Symbol
.BR mi_bcmp ()
is provided for compatibility with
.IR MacOT \(rg
and systems based on
.IR MPS \(rg.
.BR mi_bcmp ()
simply calls
.BR bcmp ()
directly.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ;
.[
usldk
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.IR MacOT \(rg,
.[
macdoc
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfdoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
documentation;
and
.IR LiS 
.[
LiS
.]
source code.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR bcmp ()
first appeared in
.BR 4.1BSD .
Its use in
.I STREAMS
drivers is probably testimony to the fact that Dennis Ritchie implemented the first
.I Stream I/O System
on
.BR 4.1BSD .
.BR mi_bcmp ()
first appeared in
.IR OSF/1 .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
