'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: cdevsw.9.man,v 0.9.2.16 2005/11/25 23:42:04 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/25 23:42:04 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CDEVSW 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B cdevsw
\- the SVR4 character device switch table structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The
.B cdevsw
structure is formatted as follows:
.nf
\fC\s-2
struct cdevsw {
        struct list_head d_list;        /* list of all structures */
        struct list_head d_hash;        /* list of module hashes in slot */
        const char *d_name;             /* driver name */
        struct streamtab *d_str;        /* pointer to streamtab for driver */
        uint d_flag;                    /* driver flags */
        uint d_modid;                   /* driver module id */
        atomic_t d_count;               /* open count */
        int d_sqlvl;                    /* q sychronization level */
        struct syncq *d_syncq;          /* synchronization queue */
        struct module *d_kmod;          /* kernel module */
        /* above matches fmodsw */
        int d_major;                    /* base major device number */
        struct inode *d_inode;          /* specfs inode */
        mode_t d_mode;                  /* inode mode */
        /* above matches devnode */
        struct file_operations *d_fop;  /* file operations */
        struct list_head d_majors;      /* major device nodes for this device */
        struct list_head d_minors;      /* minor device nodes for this device */
        struct list_head d_apush;       /* autopush list */
        struct stdata *d_plinks;        /* permanent links for this device */
        struct list_head d_stlist;      /* stream head list for this device */
};
\s+2\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The
.B cdevsw
structure contains the following members:
.PP
The following members are members that the
.B cdevsw
structure has in common with the
.BR devnode (9)
and
.BR fmodsw (9)
structures (permitting a pointer to one to be cast to a pointer to the other):
.TP \w'\ d_majors\ 'u
.I d_list
Provides a list of all
.B cdevsw
structures under the control of the
.I STREAMS
executive.
This field must not be populated nor accessed directly by the
.I STREAMS
driver.
.TP
.I d_hash
A list of all
.B cdevsw
entries in the same hash slot.
.B cdevsw
entries are hashed for fast lookup by
.I d_modid .
This field must not be populated nor accessed directly by the
.I STREAMS
driver.
.TP
.I d_name
The name of the
.I STREAMS
driver.  This is the name that will be used for the
.BR specfs (5)
directory entry.  If the
.I STREAMS
driver is a loadable kernel module, the kernel module name must also be the concatentation of
.RI \(lq streams- \(rq
and this name for module demand loading to work correctly.  This name should also appear in the
.I d_str->st_rdinit->qi_minfo->mi_idname
member of the
.BR module_info (9)
structure.
.IP ""
Most registration functions require that this member be populated by the caller:
it should be set to point to a constant static character string prior to the call to a registration
function.
.TP
.I d_str
A pointer to a
.BR streamtab (9)
structure specifying the
.I STREAMS
characteristics for the driver.  This
.BR streamtab (9)
structure contains the stream head
.BR qopen (9),
.BR qclose (9),
.BR putp (9)
and
.BR srvp (9)
procedures as well as the initial read queue high and low water marks.
.IP ""
Most registration functions require that this member be populated by the caller:
it should be set to point to the
.BR streamtab (9)
structure that properly describes the
.I STREAMS
driver.  Members (and subtending structures) of the
.BR streamtab (9)
structure should not be modified directly while the driver is registered.
.TP
.I d_flag
See
.IR \*(lqFlags\*(rq ,
below.
.TP
.I d_modid
Contains the module id for this driver.  This member is not populated by the caller of a
registration function, but is set by the registration function at registration time.  After
registration has been performed, this is the module id that was assigned to the driver.
.TP
.I d_count
The number of opens of this driver.  This value must be set to zero before
registration.
.TP
.I d_sqlvl
Synchronization queue level, can be one of the following:
.BR SQLVL_DEFAULT ,
.BR SQLVL_GLOBAL ,
.BR SQLVL_ELSEWHERE ,
.BR SQLVL_MODULE ,
.BR SQLVL_QUEUEPAIR ,
.BR SQLVL_QUEUE ,
.BR SQLVL_NOP " or "
.BR SQLVL_PERSTREAM .
For additional information on these sycnrhonization levels, see
.BR mp-streams (9).
.IP ""
These synchronization levels are not normally populated by the caller of a registration function,
and this member should be allowed to default to zero
.RB ( 0 ),
which is the same as
.BR SQLVL_DEFAULT .
Synchronization should, instead, be specified using the
.I d_flag
member.
.TP
.I d_syncq
A pointer to a syncrhonization queue,
.BR syncq (9)
structure the describes the outer barrier for syncrhonization.  This member is only significant when
member
.I d_sqlvl
is set to
.BR SQLVL_DEFAULT ", " SQLVL_MODULE " or " SQLVL_ELSEWHERE .
This member is not set by the caller to a registration function (it is overwritten by the
registration function).  The registration function is reponsible for locating the outer barrier
based on other information and populating this pointer.  This member should not be directly
manipulated by the
.I STREAMS
driver.
.TP
.I d_kmod
The loadable kernel module (see
.BR kmod (9))
to which this
.B cdevsw
structure belongs.  This kernel module (when non-null) will have its usage
count incremented when stream heads are opened or other reference is made to
the
.BR cdevsw ()
entry.  In addition, this kernel module will have its usage count decremented
when the reference to the
.B cdevsw
structure is released.
When the structure is used to call a registration function by a loadable kernel module, this member
should be populated with the value of
.BR THIS_MODULE .
.PP
The following members are members that the
.B cdevsw
structure has in common with the
.BR devnode (9)
structure (permitting a pointer to one to be cast to a pointer to the other):
.TP \w'\ d_majors\ 'u
.I d_major
The base major device number.  This is the first major device number allocated to the driver.
This member is not populated directly by the caller of a
.I STREAMS
registration function.
.TP
.I d_inode
This member is a pointer to the
.BR specfs (5)
directory
.B inode
that is allocated to the
.I STREAMS
driver.
.BR register_strdrv (9),
directly or indirectly, during registration.
.TP
.I d_mode
Specifies the mode of the driver.
This member is only populated by the caller of a registration function when writing a Stream head or
specialized device or module such as
.BR clone (4),
.BR fifo (4),
.BR nsdev (4),
.BR connld (4),
and using the
.BR register_inode (9)
registration function,
in which case, the member has the same interpretation as the mode field of a
.BR specfs (5)
.BR inode .
Normally, the
.BR register_strdev (9)
registration function will overwrite this member with
.BR S_IFCHR ,
while retaining any permission bits set by the caller.
.PP
The following members are specific to the
.B cdevsw
structure:
.TP \w'\ d_majors\ 'u
.I d_fop
This member is a
.B Linux
.B file_operations
structure pointer that provides file operations for use by the
.IR "STREAMS Special Shadow File System" ,
.BR specfs (5),
for direct opens of
.I STREAMS
files contained in the
.BR specfs (5)
when that file system is mounted.  This is distinct from the file operations that are used by
external file system character, FIFO or socket device nodes.
This member is only populated by the caller of a registration function when writing a Stream head or
specialized device or module such as
.BR clone (4),
.BR fifo (4),
.BR nsdev (4),
.BR connld (4),
and using the
.BR register_inode (9)
registration function.
.TP
.I d_majors
This is a list of
.BR devnode (9)
structures that represent all major device nodes allocated to this driver.  This list is not
populated by the
.I STREAMS
driver, but are allocated with the
.BR register_xnode (9)
function.
.TP
.I d_minors
This is a list of
.BR devnode (9)
structures that represent all minor device nodes allocated to this driver.  This list is not
populated by the
.I STREAMS
driver, but are allocated with the
.BR register_strnod (9)
function.
.TP
.I d_apush
This is a list of
.BR strapush (9)
structures that represent all autopush entries allocated to this driver.  This list is not populated
by the
.I STREAMS
driver, but are allocated with the
.BR autopush_add (9)
function, or indirectly via the
.BR sad (4)
driver.
.TP
.I d_plinks
This is a list of
.BR linkblk (9)
structures that represent all
.BR I_PLINK (7)'ed
.I STREAMS
that are linked under a multiplexing driver.  This list is not populated by the
.I STREAMS
driver, but are allocated with the
.BR I_PLINK (7)
command to
.BR ioctl (2s)
as described in
.BR streamio (7).
.TP
.I d_stlist
This is a list of
.BR stdata (9)
structure that represent all allocated Stream heads for the driver.  This list is not populated by
the
.I STREAMS
driver, but are allocated by the
.I STREAMS
executive with the
.BR open (2s)
system call.
.\"
.\"
.SS Flags
.PP
The following flags are used in the
.I d_flag
member and are expected to be populated by the
.I STREAMS
driver prior to a call to a registration function:
.TP \w'\ D_MTOUTPERIM\ 'u
.\".B D_REOPEN
.\"The driver or module can return a device number other than its own and the stream head must reopen
.\"that device number.
.\".TP
.B D_CLONE
The driver is a clone driver.  (The driver will always get a new and unique stream head on each
open.)
If
.I d_mode
has format
.BR S_IFIFO ,
then this flag also indicates that the driver is a
.BR pipe (4)
driver rather than a
.BR fifo (4)
driver (because FIFOs never clone).
.IP ""
Drivers that are marked with this flag should never have Stream heads attached to the external file
system device inode or internal
.BR specfs (5)
file system inode.  The driver
.BR qopen (9)
procedures will always be called with
.I sflag
set to
.BR CLONEOPEN .
.IP ""
This flag need only be used by specialized clone devices such as
.BR clone (4),
.BR nsdev (4),
that never have Stream heads attached to inodes.  See also
.BR stropen (9).
.\".TP
.\".B D_FIFO
.\"The driver is 
.\".BR fifo (4)
.\"driver.
.\".TP
.\".B D_PIPE
.\"The driver is a
.\".BR pipe (4)
.\"driver.
.\".TP
.\".B D_SOCK
.\"The driver is a
.\".BR sock (4)
.\"driver.
.\".TP
.\".B D_LIS
.\"Attempt to be LiS compatible with this module.
.\".TP
.\".B D_HEAD
.\"The driver is a stream head.
.\".TP
.\".B D_NSDEV
.\"The driver is a Named STREAMS device.  (This is similar to a clone driver in that the driver will
.\"always get a new and unique stream head on each open.)
.PP
The following flags are
.IR Solaris \(rg
compatible:
.TP \w'\ D_MTOUTPERIM\ 'u
.B D_MP
specifies that the driver is MP-safe.  When this flag is set, all other synchronization flags
(inner perimeter, outer perimiter,
.BR D_SAFE " and " D_UP )
are ignored.
.IP ""
For more information on this  flag, or any of the syncrhonization flags, see
.BR mp-streams (9).
.PP
The following inner perimeter flags are
.IR Solaris \(rg
compatible:
.TP \w'\ D_MTOUTPERIM\ 'u
.B D_MTPERMOD
specifies that an inner perimeter exists and that the inner perimeter encircles all queue pairs in the
module.
Only one of
.BR D_MTPERMOD ,
.BR D_MTQPAIR " and " M_MTPERQ
may be set.
Only one of
.BR D_MTPERMOD " and " D_MTOUTPERIM
may be set.
.TP
.B D_MTQPAIR
specifies that an inner perimeter exists and that the inner perimeter encircles each queue pair in the
module.
Only one of
.BR D_MTPERMOD ,
.BR D_MTQPAIR " and " M_MTPERQ
may be set.
.TP
.B D_MTPERQ
specifies that an inner perimeter exists and that the inner perimeter encircles each queue in the module.
Only one of
.BR D_MTPERMOD ,
.BR D_MTQPAIR " and " M_MTPERQ
may be set.
.TP
.B D_MTPUTSHARED
specifies that the
.BR putp (9)
procedure will enter the inner perimeter (if it exists) shared instead of
(the default) exclusive.
This flag has no effect if none of
.BR D_MTPERMOD ,
.BR D_MTQPAIR " or " D_MTPERQ
are set (i.e. there is no inner perimeter).
.PP
The following outer perimeter flags are
.IR Solaris \(rg
compatible:
.TP \w'\ D_MTOUTPERIM\ 'u
.B D_MTOUTPERIM
specifies that an outer perimeter exists and that the outer perimeter encircles all queue pairs in the module.
Only one of
.BR D_MTPERMOD " and " D_MTOUTPERIM
may be set.
.TP
.B D_MTOCEXCL
specifies that the
.BR qopen (9)
and
.BR qclose (9)
procedures will enter the outer perimeter (if it exists) exclusive instead of
(the default) entering the outer perimeter shared and the inner perimeter exclusive.
This flag has no effect if
.B D_MTOTEPERIM
is not set (i.e. there is no outer perimeter).
.PP
THe following flags are provided for
.IR AIX \(rg
compatibility:
.TP \w'\ D_MTOUTPERIM\ 'u
.B D_SAFE
The module requires safe (local interrupts disabled) callbacks.
.TP
.B D_UP
The driver requests per-stream synchronization for uni-processor emulation.
(This capability is not yet supported.)
.PP
THe following flags are provided for
.IR OSF \(rg
compatibility:
.TP \w'\ D_MTOUTPERIM\ 'u
.B D_64BIT
The module handles 64-bit offsets.
(This capability is not yet supported.)
.TP
.B D_NEW
The module has an SVR4 prototype
.BR qopen (9)
and
.BR qclose (9)
procedure instead of SVR3 ones.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
does not support SVR3 opens.  If this flag is not set, it is always implied.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B cdevsw
structure is allocated by a caller of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
device registration function,
.BR register_strdev (9).
The
.I STREAMS
driver can call the
.BR register_strdev (9)
function as part of its initialization, or can use one of the registration compatibility function
that will dynamically allocate a
.B cdevsw
structure for the caller.
.PP
The direct caller of the
.BR register_strdev (9)
registration function
can allocate the structure statically or dynamically, but should ensure that all members
are zeroed and only populate the
.IR d_name ", " d_str ", " d_flag ", " d_kmod ", " d_mode " and possibly " d_fop
members as follows:
.TP \w'd_kmod\(em'u
.I d_name
A pointer to a character string giving the name of the driver.
.TP
.I d_str
A pointer to the
.BR streamtab (9)
structure describing the
.I STREAMS
driver.
.TP
.I d_flag
Flags specifying the syncrhonization required by the driver.
.TP
.I d_kmod
A pointer to
.BR THIS_MODULE ,
to keep kernel modules from unloading while the
.I STREAMS
driver is in use.
.TP
.I d_mode
The file mode and permissions for the driver if different from
.BR S_IFCHR
and world readable and writable.
.TP
.I d_fop
Special file operations when registering a new Stream head.
.PP
After the registration function has been called, no members of the structure or subtending
structures should be directly accessed nor manipulated by the
.I STREAMS
driver.
Dynamically allocated structures cannot be freed until after the corresponding unregistration
function,
.BR unregister_strdev (9),
has been called.
.PP
See the corresponding registration function manual page for more information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
registration functions are called from blocking context and are intended to be called from a
.I STREAMS
driver's initialization or termination functions.  These structures must reside in pinned (kernel)
memory where they are directly accessible by the
.I STREAMS
executive.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
The
.B cdevsw
table is protected by the
.B cdevsw_lock
reader-writer lock.  This structure should never be manipulated directly
after it has been registered with a registration function and before it has
been unregistered with a unregistration function.
It is permissible, however, after registration, to read the values of some members (such as
.IR d_modid ).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.PP
If a
.I STREAMS
module or driver wishes to register as both a
.I STREAMS
pushable module and a
.I STREAMS
device or pseudo-device driver, it should use separate and distinct
.BR fmodsw "(9) and " cdevsw
structures that are registered separately.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR devnode (9),
.BR fmodsw (9),
.BR specfs (5),
.BR module_info (9),
.BR streamtab (9),
.BR qopen (9),
.BR qclose (9),
.BR putp (9),
.BR srvp (9),
.BR mp-streams (9),
.BR syncq (9),
.BR kmod (9),
.BR register_strdrv (9),
.BR clone (4),
.BR fifo (4),
.BR nsdev (4),
.BR connld (4),
.BR register_inode (9),
.BR register_strdev (9),
.BR register_xnode (9),
.BR register_strnod (9),
.BR strapush (9),
.BR autopush_add (9),
.BR sad (4),
.BR linkblk (9),
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR stdata (9),
.BR open (2s),
.BR pipe (4),
.BR stropen (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B cdevsw
structure is compatible with the descriptions of internal structures for
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4
.]
.[
magic
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
and
.IR LiS ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.B cdevsw
structure is implementation-specific and should not be manipulated directly by portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
.IP \(em
While roughly comparable to other implementations, the
.B cdevsw
structure contains members not present in other implementations and does not contain members present
in other implementations.  Members with the same name may have a different function or other subtle
differences.
.IP \(em
Because the
.B cdevsw
structure is dependent on
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
internal implementation specifics, it is not binary compatibile.
.IP \(em
Any use supported by the
.B cdevsw
structure on other systems for purposes other than
.I STREAMS
are explicitly not supported by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.IP \(em
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
did not standardize on a registration procedure, and most implementations use different methods.
A
.I STREAMS
module or driver can avoid having directly knowledge of this structure by using on of the
registration function compatible with another
.I STREAMS
implementation.
.IP ""
(Registration functions compatible with
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR LiS ,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
are provided as part of the
.I STREAMS
compatibility package,
.BR strcompat ).
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
There are no standards for this structure.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
is roughly conformant to
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42
.]
and the descriptions of
.I "SVR 4"
internals.
.[
magic
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B cdevsw
table and structure first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
