'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: cmn_err.9.man,v 0.9.2.17 2005/11/29 10:46:30 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/29 10:46:30 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH CMN_ERR 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B cmn_err
\- print a kernel command error
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/cmn_err.h>
.HP
.BI "cmn_err(int " err_lvl ", char *" fmt ", " ... " /* " args " */ " );
.PP
.B #include <stdarg.h>
.HP
.BI "vcmn_err(int " err_lvl", char *" fmt ", va_list " argp );
.PP
.B #ifdef _IRIX_SOURCE
.br
.B #define cmn_err_tag(sequence,level,format,...) cmn_err(level,format,...)
.br
.B #define icmn_err vcmn_err
.br
.B #endif
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP \w'\ err_lvl\ 'u
.I err_lvl
the error level associated with the log.
.TP
.I fmt
the
.B printf
format for the log.
.TP
.I ...
the arguments of the
.B printf
format.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR DDI/DKI .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR cmn_err (),
.BR vcmn_err ()
and
.BR icmn_err ()
print a command error message to kernel log files at the level specified by
.I err_lev
and with the
.BR printf (3)
formatted format string
.I fmt
and associated variable arguments.
.PP
.I err_lvl
may be one of the following values:
.TP \w'\ CE_PANIC\ 'u
.B CE_CONT
This level indicates to continue printing.
.TP
.B CE_DEBUG
This error level is for debugging messages.  Debugging messages are of use only during debugging.
This equates to a
.B KERN_DEBUG
level in
.BR Linux .
.TP
.B CE_NOTE
This error level is for notices.  Notices are important events which should be logged.
This equates to a
.B KERN_NOTICE
level in
.BR Linux .
.TP
.B CE_WARN
This error level is for warnings.  These are critical conditions, however, these errors do not halt
the kernel.  This equates to a
.B KERN_WARNING
level in
.BR Linux .
.TP
.B CE_ALERT
This error level is for alert messages.  Alert messages indicate that action must be taken
immediately.
This equates to a
.B KERN_ALERT
level in
.BR Linux.
.TP
.B CE_PANIC
This error level is a panic error level.  This is for highly critical errors where the kernel has
destabilized and it is necessary to halt the kernel.
This equates to a
.B KERN_EMERG
level in
.BR Linux.
.RS
.PP
When the
.I err_lvl
is specified as
.BR CE_PANIC ,
.BR cmn_err (),
.BR vcmn_err ()
and
.BR icmn_err ()
will generate a
.B Linux
kernel panic with the resulting message.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Unlike
.BR printk (9),
.BR cmn_err (),
.BR vcmn_err ()
and
.BR icmn_err ()
returs
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR cmn_err (),
.BR vcmn_err ()
and
.BR icmn_err ()
fail silently when the
.I err_lvl
is invalid or formatting of the message
per
.I fmt
and the variable arguments fails.
(These function have proper declarations to allow the GNU C Compiler Collection to warn of
incorrect format strings and arguments at compile time.)
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR cmn_err (),
.BR vcmn_err ()
and
.BR icmn_err ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR cmn_err (),
.BR vcmn_err ()
and
.BR icmn_err ()
are MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.I SVR 4.2 MP
specifies that a
.RB \(lq ^ \(rq
character passed as the first character of the format string,
.IR fmt ,
will print the message to the console only;
and that a
.RB \(lq ! \(rq
character,
to the print buffer (system logs) only.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
does not exhibit this behavior because whether things are printed to the console or not are
controlled by
.BR syslog (8)
under
.BR Linux .
.BR cmn_err ()
and
.BR vcmn_err ()
will, however, strip these characters from the printed message if they occur.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR cmn_err ()
simply calls
.BR vcmn_err ().
.BR cmn_err ()
calls
.BR printk (9)
with the equivalent kernel level as follows:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lblb.
CE_CONT:\-
CE_DEBUG:KERN_DEBUG
CE_NOTE:KERN_INFO
CE_WARN:KERN_WARNING
CE_ALERT:KERN_ALERT
CE_PANIC:KERN_EMERG
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR printk (9),
.BR strlog (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR cmn_err (),
.BR vcmn_err ()
and
.BR icmn_err ()
have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR cmn_err (),
.BR vcmn_err ()
and
.BR icmn_err ()
are compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4dk
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
SVR 4 systems normally print a newline at before the information provided to
.BR cmn_err ()
unless the
.B CE_CONT
flag is specified, and do not normally print a newline after the information provided to
.BR cmn_err ().
This is the opposite of BSD and Linux behavior, which print a newline at the end of the sequence
rather than the beginning.
.I LiS
can be compiled with flags providing either behavior.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
can be compiled with flags providing either behavior, however, the
.B Linux
and 
.B BSD
approach is the default.
Both
.IR IRIX \(rg
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
irixdoc
.]
.[
soldoc
.]
provide the
.B Linux/BSD
behavior.
.IP \(em
.IR IRIX \(rg
.[
irixdoc
.]
add levels
.B CE_DEBUG
and
.BR CE_ALERT .
These two levels are not documented by any other implementation.
.IP \(em
.IR IRIX \(rg
.[
irixdoc
.]
documents
.BR icmn_err ().
No other implementation documents
.BR icmn_err (),
but some document
.BR vcmn_err ().
Neither 
.BR icmn_err ()
nor
.BR vcmn_err ()
will be used by portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
.IP \(em
.IR IRIX \(rg
.[
irixdoc
.]
documents
that locks cannot be held accross a call to this function with a level of
.BR CE_PANIC .
.B Linux
breaks locks under panic, so this is not the case for
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not call
.BR cmn_err ()
with a level of
.B CE_PANIC
while holding driver-defined locks.
.IP \(em
.IR IRIX \(rg
.[
irixdoc
.]
documents a limited set of format specifiers for the format string.  These are:
.BR %s ", " %u ", " %d ", " %o ",  and " %x .
.IR IRIX \(rg
also documents that length specifiers are not permitted on these format specifiers.
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not use format specifiers that include length specifications and will
restrict the format string to use only the format specifiers
.BR %s ", " %u ", " %d ", " %o ",  and " %x .
.IP \(em
Symbol
.BR cmn_err_tag ()
is provided for compatibility with
.IR IRIX .
.BR cmn_err_tag ()
calls
.BR vcmn_err ()
directly, and ignores the
.I sequence
argument.
.IP \(em
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
uses
.BR printk (9)
to print the messages.
.IP \(em
Symbol
.BR lis_cmn_err ()
is provided for compatibility with
.IR LiS .
.BR lis_cmn_err ()
calls
.BR cmn_err ()
directly.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR cmn_err ()
is a System V function that first appeared in SVR 2.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
