'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: copyb.9.man,v 0.9.2.4 2004/03/16 01:58:32 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/16 01:58:32 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH COPYB 9 "$Date: 2004/03/16 01:58:32 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B copyb
\- copy a \fISTREAMS\fR message block
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *copyb(mblk_t *" mp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I mp
the message block to copy.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR copyb ()
generates a new copy of the message block and data block and buffer indicated
by
.IR mp ,
and returns a pointer to the new message block.
The new data block has the same type as the copied data block and the
.IR b_rptr " and " b_wptr
in the new message block are set to the beginning and end of the copied data
in the new data block and buffer.
.PP
The data buffer copied consists of only the portions between the
.I b_rptr
and
.I b_wptr
of the passed in message block.
.PP
.BR copyb ()
calls
.BR allocb (9)
to copy message blocks with priority
.BR BRPI_MED .
Message alignment and memory type assurances are as described in
.BR allocb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR copyb ()
returns a pointer to the new message block.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR copyb ()
returns a
.B NULL
pointer.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR copyb ()
fails, it returns a
.B NULL
pointer.
.BR copyb ()
can fail because the passed in message pointer,
.IR mp ,
is
.BR NULL ;
the size of the data buffer is negative;
the size of the data indicated by
.IR b_rptr " and " b_wptr
of the message block to be copied is negative;
or memory allocation failed.
Normally if
.B copyb
fails,
.BR bufcall (9)
should be called with the
.I size
of the data block necessary and the
.I priority
associated with the operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR copyb ()
can be called from any context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR copyb ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller must ensure exclusive access to the passed in
message block.  On return, the caller has the only reference to the returned
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
implementation of
.BR copyb ()
will fail if the block to be copied has a negative message length (i.e. the
.I b_wptr
is less than the
.IR b_rptr ),
or if the data block is mangled (i.e.  the 
.I db_lim
pointer is less than the
.IR db_base ).
.PP
This does not appear consistent with SVR 4.2 STREAMS.
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR bufcall (9),
.BR copymsg (9),
.BR dupb "(9) and "
.BR dupmsg (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR copyb ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR copyb ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementattions based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\ \(em\ 'u
.BR copyb ()
copies both the
.I b_band
and
.I b_flag
members of the passed in message block to the returned message block.
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
does not copy
.I b_band
or
.I b_flag
members.  Recent versions copy both.
.IR AIX \(rg
copies
.IR b_band ,
but not
.IR b_flag ,
members.
.IR Solaris \(rg
copies both
.I b_band
and
.I b_flag
members.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers should not rely on any
.BR msgb (9)
fields being copied into the returned message block and should copy or
reinitialize all significant fields (such as
.IR b_band " and " b_flag ).
.IP \(em
.BR copyb ()
aligns the new data buffer in the same manner as if
.BR allocb (9)
was called and the data was copied between
.IR db_base " and " db_lim .
(See
.BR msgb "(9) and " datab (9)).
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
make no assurances whatsoever about the resulting alignment.
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
restores the same alignment in the copy as the original data to a word
boundary.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers should make no assumptions about the alignment of data
resulting from a
.BR copyb ()
or
.BR copymsg (9)
operation.
.IP \(em
Symbol
.BR lis_copyb ()
is provided for compatibility with
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.BR lis_copyb ()
calls
.BR copyb ()
directly.
.PP
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR copyb ()
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
