'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: copyresp.9.man,v 0.9.2.11 2008-04-28 12:53:48 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:48 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: copyresp.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.11  2008-04-28 12:53:48  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2007/01/27 09:23:50  brian
.\" - behavior and docs for IOC_NONE
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2006/04/05 09:44:10  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH COPYRESP 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B copyresp
\- \fISTREAMS\fP copy response block structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1
.B #include <sys/stream.h>

struct copyresp {
    int cp_cmd;         /* command being performed */
    cred_t *cp_cr;      /* credentials */
    uint cp_id;         /* id of this ioctl */
    caddr_t cp_rval;    /* result 0 - success, 1 - failure */
    uint cp_pad1;       /* reserved */
    int cp_pad2;        /* reserved */
    mblk_t *cp_private; /* private state information */
    long cp_filler[4];  /* SVR4 compatibility */
#define cp_flag cp_filler[0] /* IOC_NATIVE or IOC_ILP32 */
};

#define cp_uid cp_cr->cr_uid
#define cp_gid cp_cr->cr_gid

#define IOC_MASK   0xff000000 /* mask of model bits */
#define IOC_NONE   0x00000000 /* no indication */
#define IOC_NATIVE 0x01000000 /* native ioctl request */
#define IOC_ILP32  0x02000000 /* 32bit ioctl request */
#define IOC_LP64   0x03000000 /* 64bit ioctl request */
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The
.B copyresp
structure contains the following members:
.\" ----------------------
.TP \w'cp_private\(em'u
.I cp_cmd
current input-output control command;
.PD 0
.\" ----------------------
.TP
.I cp_cr
pointer to the invoking user credentials;
.\" ----------------------
.TP
.I cp_id
current input-output control identification number;
.\" ----------------------
.TP
.I cp_rval
return value for
.BR copyin (9)
or
.BR copyout (9)
operation:
.B (caddr_t)(0)
if successful;
.B (caddr_t)(1)
is unsuccessful;
.\" ----------------------
.TP
.I cp_pad1
padding for alignment;
.\" ----------------------
.TP
.I cp_pad2
padding for alignment;
.\" ----------------------
.TP
.I cp_private
pointer to a private state
.BR mblk_t (9).
.\" ----------------------
.TP
.I cp_flag
modifier flags (see
.IR \(lq\)COMPATIBILITY\(rq\) ,
below);
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B copyresp
structure is one of a set of
.BR ioctypes (9)
structures including
.BR iocblk (9),
.BR copyreq (9),
and
.BR copyresp (9),
that are used for communicating between the
Stream head
or an internal driver or module using
.I STREAMS
messages.  The messages used and the placement of these structures into messages is illustrated in
the table below:
.RS 0
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lelele
lbelelbe.
message:direction:contains
\_:\_:\_
M_IOCTL\fR(9):downstream:iocblk\fR(9)
M_COPYIN\fR(9):upstream:copyreq\fR(9)
M_COPYOUT\fR(9):upstream:copyreq\fR(9)
M_IOCDATA\fR(9):downstream:copyresp\fR(9)
M_IOCACK\fR(9):upstream:iocblk\fR(9)
M_IOCNAK\fR(9):upstream:iocblk\fR(9)
M_CTL\fR(9):both:iocblk\fR(9)
.TE
.sp
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
Functions that operate on the
.B copyresp
structure can be called from any context.  However, it is the caller's responsibility to ensure that
the calling thread has exclusive access to the
copy response structure.
When the
copy response structure
is contained in an
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
message that has just been removed from a
.BR queue (9)
in a
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure of the queue,
copy response structure
exclusivity is normally guaranteed.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
Functions that access the
.B copyresp
structure are MP-safe.  However, it is the caller's responsibility to ensure exclusive access to the
structure before altering any of the members of the structure.
.PP
Because the copy response structure is normally stored in a
.I STREAMS
message, see
.BR datab (9)
for additional information.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
See
.BR M_COPYIN (9)
for an example.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR datab (9),
.BR queue (9),
.IR qi_putp (9),
.IR qi_srvp (9),
.BR M_IOCDATA (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B iocblk
structure is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP EFT" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR Solaris \(rg
documents the
.I cp_flag
member.
.[
soldoc
.]
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
do not document the
.I cp_flag
member.
.[
suxspg
.]
.[
uw7spg
.]
.[
uxpspg
.]
See
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
for more information on this flag.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not access the
.I cp_flag
member.
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documents the
.I cp_uid
and
.I cp_gid
fields for
.IR "SCO OpenServer" \(rg
compatibility.
.I cp_uid
and
.I cp_gid
were present in
.IR "SVR 3.2" .
.[
svr3
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not use the
.B cp_uid
nor
.B cp_gid
macros and will not attempt to access the old
.I "SVR 3.2"
members.
.IP \(em
The order and size of the various members of the
.BR iocblk (9)
structure, and the associated aligned
.BR copyreq (9)
and
.BR copyresp (9)
structures, vary in
.I STREAMS
from implementation to implementation.  Some implementations have different structure definitions
depending upon the word size of a specific architecture.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
follows the
.IR "SVR 4.2"
implementation as closely as possible.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not rely upon a specific overall size of the
.BR copyresp (9)
structure, or the offset or alignment of any of its members.
.IP \(em
Lining up these input-output control block data structures is tedious and uninteresting.  See
.BR ioctypes (9)
for more information.
Various implementations exhibit various alignments.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not rely upon alignment of any fields except the first three fields of each
structure, and the alignment and preservation of the
.I cq_private
and
.I cp_private
fields.
That is all that is guaranteed by the
.IR "SVR 4.2 SPG" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 EFT" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B copyresp
structure was combined with the
.BR copyreq (9)
and
.BR iocblk (9)
structures (see
.BR ioctypes (9))
in
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.PP
The
.B copyresp
structure was introduced in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
