'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: copymsg.9.man,v 0.9.2.8 2004/04/19 20:24:57 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/04/19 20:24:57 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH COPYMSG 9 "$Date: 2004/04/19 20:24:57 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B copymsg
\- copy a \fISTREAMS\fR message
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BR "struct msgb *" msg " = copymsg(struct msgb *" mp );
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR copymsg ()
generates a new copy of each of the message blocks and data blocks and buffers
in the message indicated by
.IR mp ,
and returns a pointer to the new message as
.IR msg .
The new data blocks each have the same type as the copied data blocks and the
.IR b_rptr " and " b_wptr
of each block in the new message are set to the beginning and end of the
copied data from the corresponding blocks in the old message.
.PP
.BR copymsg ()
simply iterates calls to
.BR copyb (9)
over the blocks in the message and links the copied blocks into the new
message.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR copymsg ()
returns a pointer,
.IR msg ,
to the copied message.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR copymsg ()
returns a
.B NULL
.I msg
pointer.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR copymsg ()
fails, it returns a
.B NULL
pointer.
.BR copymsg ()
fails if memory allocation for a message block fails.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR copymsg ()
can be called from any context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR copymsg ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller is responsible for ensuring exclusive access
to the passed in message.  Upon return, the caller will have the only
reference to the returned message.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR copyb (9),
.BR dupb "(9) and "
.BR dupmsg (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR copymsg ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR copymsg ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4dk
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR copymsg ()
fails if memory allocation for message blocks fails.
Under
.IR LiS ,
.BR copymsg ()
can fail because the passed in message pointer,
.IR mp ,
is
.BR NULL ;
the size of any of the blocks to be copied has a negative message length (i.e.
the
.I b_wptr
pointer is less than the
.IR b_rptr );
if any of the data blocks are mangled (i.e. the
.I db_lim
pointer is less than the
.IR db_base );
or, memory allocation for any of the copied blocks fails.
.IP \(em
Symbol
.BR lis_copymsg ()
is provided for compatibility with
.IR LiS .
See
.BR lisbcm (9).
.BR lis_copymsg ()
calls
.BR copymsg ()
directly.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See also
.BR copyb (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI,
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR copymsg ()
first appeared in SVR 3.
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
