'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: cred_t.9.man,v 0.9.2.16 2008-04-28 12:53:48 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:48 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: cred_t.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.16  2008-04-28 12:53:48  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.15  2006/10/05 12:17:06  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.14  2006/04/05 10:05:05  brian
.\" - get references in right place
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.13  2006/04/05 09:44:10  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH CRED_T 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B cred_t
\- credentials structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2
typedef struct cred {
        uid_t cr_ruid, cr_uid, cr_suid, cr_fsuid;
        gid_t cr_rgid, cr_gid, cr_sgid, cr_fsgid;
        int cr_ngroups;
        gid_t cr_groups[NGROUPS];
} cred_t;
\s+2\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
.TP \w'\ cr_ngroups\ 'u
.I cr_ruid
real user id.
.PD 0
.TP
.I cr_uid
effective user id.
.TP
.I cr_suid
set user id.
.TP
.I cr_fsuid
filesystem user id.
.TP
.I cr_rgid
read group id.
.TP
.I cr_gid
effective group id.
.TP
.I cr_sgid
set group id.
.TP
.I cr_fsgid
filesystem group id.
.TP
.I cr_ngroups
number of altrenate groups.
.TP
.I cr_groups
alternate group ids.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR DDI/DKI .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B cred_t
structure provides access to the user process credentials.  It used to be a
word broken into two shorts under
.IR "SVR 3" ,
.[
svr3spg
.]
however, it changed to a structure in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.PP
The
.B cred_t
structure is passed to the
.BR qi_qopen (9)
and
.BR qi_qclose (9)
.I STREAMS
module and driver routines.
It is also passed as pointer contained in the
.BR iocblk (9)
structure contained in the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Same layout as embedded in
.I Linux
.B task_struct
structure.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"The credentials structure really messes up binary compatibility with
.\".I LiS
.\".[
.\"LiS
.\".]
.\"because credentials pointers are passed to 
.\".IR qi_qopen (9)
.\"and
.\".IR qi_qclose (9)
.\"driver and module procedures.  Because of this,
.\".I STREAMS
.\"drivers and modules that are registered with
.\".I Linux Fast-STREAMS
.\"using the LiS compatible
.\".BR lis_register_strdev (9)
.\"and
.\".BR lis_register_strmod (9)
.\"LiS compatibility functions, will have
.\".B lis_cred_t
.\"structure pointers passed instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR iocblk (9),
.BR qi_qopen (9),
.BR qi_qclose (9),
.BR M_IOCTL (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B cred_t
structure is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4",
.[
svr4spg
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
This structure should never be manipulated directly.  One of the most common
uses of the
.B cred_t
structure is to test for super user privilege.  This can be accomplished using
the portable
.BR drv_priv (9)
utility function without directly accessing the members of this structure.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility would be coincidental.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
The credentials structure is not subject to standardization.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The credentials structure (for use by
.IR STREAMS )
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

