'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: datamsg.9.man,v 0.9.2.22 2006/04/05 09:44:10 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:10 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: datamsg.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.22  2006/04/05 09:44:10  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DATAMSG 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B datamsg
\- tests a \fISTREAMS\fP message type for data
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int datamsg(int " type );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I type
the type to test against a data message type.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR datamsg ()
tests the passed in
.I type
to see if the type is a data message type.  Data message types include the
following:
.TP \w'M_PCPROTO(9)\(em\ 'u
.BR M_DATA (9)
The message type is a data message type.
.PD 0
.TP
.BR M_PROTO (9)
The message type is a protocol data message type.
.TP
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
The message type is a priority protocol data message type.
.TP
.BR M_DELAY (9)
The message type is a delay data message type.
.PD
.PP
If the passed in message
.I type
is one of these message types,
.BR datamsg ()
returns
.I true
.RB ( 1 );
otherwise,
.BR datamsg ()
returns
.I false
.RB ( 0 ).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR datamsg ()
returns
.I true
.RB ( 1 )
if the passed in message type is a data message type.
.BR datamsg ()
returns
.I false
.RB ( 0 )
if the passed in message type is not a data message type.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR datamsg ()
is always successful.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR datamsg ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR datamsg ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR isdatablk "(9) and
.BR isdatamsg (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR datamsg ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR datamsg ()
is source-level compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4dk
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR datamsg ()
is widely supported.
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules may use this function.
.IP \(em
.BR datamsg ()
is implemented as an
.B extern inline
function.
.I LiS
implements
.BR datamsg ()
as a C preprocessor macro,
which is rather against its stated purpose of providing functional interfaces.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not attempt to take a function pointer reference to
.BR datamsg ().
.IP \(em
Some older implementations of
.IR "SunOS 4" \(rg
did not include
.BR M_DELAY (9)
in the group.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR datamsg ()
appeared as part of
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR datamsg ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
