'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: ddi_create_minor_node.9.man,v 0.9.2.13 2005/11/26 11:17:08 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/26 11:17:08 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DDI_CREATE_MINOR_NODE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B ddi_create_minor_node
\- create a minor node for this device
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/sunddi.h>
.HP
int \fBddi_create_minor_node(\fRdev_info_t *\fIdip\fR, char *\fIname\fR, int
\fItype\fR, minor_t \fIminor\fR, char *\fInode\fR, int
\fIflag\fB);\fR
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I dip
A pointer to the device's
.B dev_info
structure.
.TP
.I name
The name to assign to the minor device node.
.TP
.I type
The type of device.  This can be one of the following:
.RS
.TP \w'S_IFCHR\(em'u
.B S_IFCHR
Character minor device.
.TP
.B S_IFBLK
Block minor device.
(Block devices are not supported by
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .)
.[
lfs
.]
.RE
.TP
.I minor
The minor number for this minor device.
.TP
.I node
A string that uniquely identifies the type of node.  (Only
.I STREAMS
devices are supported by
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .)
.[
lfs
.]
.RS
.TP \w'S_IFCHR\(em'u
.B DDI_PSEUDO
A pseudo device.
.RE
.TP
.I flag
If the device is a clone device then this flag is set to
.B CLONE_DEV
else it is set to
.BR 0 .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
provides the necessary information to enable the system to created the
.B /dev
and
.B /dev/streams
directory.  The name is used to create the minor name of a
.I STREAMS
character special file under the
.B /dev/streams
directory.  At-sign
.RI ( @ ),
slash
.RI ( / ),
and space re not allowed.  The
.I type
argument specifies whether this is a block or character device.  The
.I minor
argument is the minor number for the device.  The
.I node
argument is used to create the names in the
.B /dev
directory that refers to the names in the
.B /dev/streams
directory.
The
.I flag
argument determines if this is a clone device or not, and to which device class
the node belongs.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
succeeds, it returns 
.BR DDI_SUCCESS ;
when it fails, it returns
.BR DDI_FAILURE .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
fails when there is no available memory to create the minor device data
structures for this device node.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
can only be called from User Context and the user requires appropriate
privilege to create the necessary file system entries.  This normally means for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
drivers and modules that the call will succeed when called from within n
module's
.BR _init (9)
procedure, but will normally fail when called from within a module's
.IR qi_qopen (9)
or
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedures.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
is MP-safe when call from an appropriate context.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function:
.B _SUN_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN_MODULE
defined.
.PP
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
driver and modules.  However, there is no common replacement for this
function.
.I LiS
provides the
.BR lis_mknod (9)
wrapper for an in-kernel system call to
.BR mknod (2),
but that approach is equally non-portable.
.PP
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
creates a minor node in the shadow special device file system.  Symbolic links
should be created from the
.B /dev
file system to the shadow special device file system, normally mounted on
.BR /dev/streams .
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1
ddi_create_minor_node(dip, "nuls", S_IFCHR, 0, DDI_PSEUDO, CLONE_DEV);
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR attach (9),
.BR detach (9),
.BR ddi_remove_minor_node (9),
.BR mknod (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B ddi_create_minor_node ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
is compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
does not recognize any flags other than
.B CLONE_DEV
or
.BR 0 .
.IP \(em
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
cannot create minor nodes for block devices and will fail if passed the
.B S_IFBLK
type.
.IP \(em
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
ignores the string passed in the
.I node
argument.
.IP \(em
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
does not (necessarily) create devices in a
.B /devices
directory.  Devices appear wherever the shadow special device file system is
mounted, normally,
.BR /dev/streams .
.IP ""
If the shadow special device file system is mounted, a symbolic link is created
from the
.B /dev
directory into the
.B /dev/streams
directory at the correct location.
If the shadow special device file system is not mounted, the function performs
a
.BR mknod (2)
in-kernel system call to create the device in the
.B /dev
directory.
.IP ""
This difference in behaviour should not cause compatibility problems because
device nodes are referenced from within the
.B /dev
directory as usual.
.IP \(em
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function that should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
.IP \(em
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR Solaris \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR Solaris \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR Solaris \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Solaris \(rg
SUNDDI documentation.
.[
soldoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR ddi_create_minor_node ()
first appeared in
.IR Solaris \(rg
2.5.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
