'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: devnode.9.man,v 0.9.2.3 2006/04/05 09:44:10 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:10 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: devnode.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.3  2006/04/05 09:44:10  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DEVNODE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B devnode
\- \fISTREAMS\fR character device node structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
The
.B devnode
structure is formatted as follows:
.nf
\fC\s-2
struct devnode {
        struct list_head n_list;        /* list of all nodes for this device */
        struct list_head n_hash;        /* list of major hashes in slot */
        const char *n_name;             /* node name */
        struct streamtab *n_str;        /* streamtab for node */
        uint n_flag;                    /* node flags */
        uint n_modid;                   /* node module id */
        atomic_t n_count;               /* open count */
        int n_sqlvl;                    /* q sychronization level */
        struct syncq *n_syncq;          /* synchronization queue */
        struct module *n_kmod;          /* kernel module */
        /* above matches fmodsw */
        int n_major;                    /* node major device number */
        struct inode *n_inode;          /* specfs inode */
        mode_t n_mode;                  /* inode mode */
        /* above matches cdevsw */
        int n_minor;                    /* node minor device number */
        struct cdevsw *n_dev;           /* character device */
};
\s+2\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The
.B devnode
structure contains the following members:
.PP
The following members are members that the
.B devnode
structure has in common with the
.BR fmodsw (9)
and
.BR cdevsw (9)
structures (permitting a pointer to one to be cast to a pointer to the other):
.TP \w'\ n_majors\ 'u
.I n_list
Provides a list of all
.B devnode
structures belonging to the same driver.
.TP
.I n_hash
A list of all
.B devnode
entries in the same hash slot.
.B devnode
entries are hashed for fast lookup by
.IR n_major .
.TP
.I n_name
The name of the device node.  For minor device nodes, this is the name that will be used for the
.BR specfs (5)
entry beneath the driver's directory entry.
.TP
.I n_str
A pointer to a
.BR streamtab (9)
structure specifying the
.I STREAMS
characteristics for the driver.
Ignored for device nodes, this pointer is a cached copy of the driver's
.BR cdevsw (9)
member.
.TP
.I n_flag
Contains the flags for this node.
Ignored for device nodes, these flags are a cached copy of the driver's
.BR cdevsw (9)
member.
.TP
.I n_modid
Contains the module id for this node.
Ignored for device nodes, this module id is a cached copy of the driver's
.BR cdevsw (9)
member.
.TP
.I n_count
The number of opens of this node.
Ignored by device nodes, always set to zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.TP
.I n_sqlvl
Synchronization queue level.
Ignored for device nodes, a cached copy of the driver's
.BR cdevsw (9)
member.
.TP
.I n_kmod
The loadable kernel module.
Ignored for device nodes, a cached copy of the driver's
.BR cdevsw (9)
member.
.PP
The following members are members that the
.B devnode
structure has in common with the
.BR cdevsw (9)
structure (permitting a pointer to one to be cast to a pointer to the other):
.TP \w'\ n_majors\ 'u
.I n_major
The node major device number.  This is the major device number allocated to this node.
.TP
.I n_inode
This member is a pointer to the
.BR specfs (5)
device node
.B inode
that is allocated to the
.I STREAMS
device node.
.BR register_strnod (9),
directly or indirectly, during registration.
.TP
.I n_mode
Specifies the mode of the device node.  This mode is set by the registration function and can differ
from the driver's mode in both permission and format.
.PP
The following members are specific to the
.B devnode
structure:
.TP \w'\ n_majors\ 'u
.I n_minor
The minor device number for this node (if this is a minor device node, and zero
.RB ( 0 )
if this is a major device node).
.TP
.I n_dev
A back pointer to the
.BR cdevsw (9)
structure, representing the driver for this device node.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
implementation extension.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B devnode
structure is allocated and deallocated by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
registration, unregistration, and DDI functions that affect major and minor device nodes.  A
.B devnode
structure is created for every external major device number.  A devnode structure is also created
for every named minor device node within the
.BR specfs (5)
file system.
.PP
This manual page is provided for information purposes only.  The
.I STREAMS
driver should never directly access this structure.  The registration functions
.BR register_cmajor (9),
.BR register_xnode (9),
.BR register_strnod (9),
.BR register_inode (9)
should be used intead.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.B devnode
structures are not be be accessed by the
.I STREAMS
driver in any context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
The
.B cdevsw
table is protected by the
.B cdevsw_lock
reader-writer lock.  This structure should never be manipulated or examined directly.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B devnode
structure is an internal structure that results from device node registration functions and is not
to be examined or manipulated by the
.I STREAMS
driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cdevsw (9),
.BR fmodsw (9),
.BR specfs (5),
.BR streamtab (9),
.BR syncq (9),
.BR register_strdrv (9),
.BR register_inode (9),
.BR register_strdev (9),
.BR register_xnode (9),
.BR register_strnod (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B devnode
structure is a
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
implementation specific structure, not to be accessed by the user, and is guaranteed incompatible
with all other implementations.  It is, however, used to support specific
.IR Solaris \(rg
DDI compatibility functions.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B devnode
structure first appeared in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.[
lfs
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
