'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: drv_getparm.9.man,v 0.9.2.10 2004/08/22 06:17:45 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/08/22 06:17:45 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH DRV_GETPARM 9 "$Date: 2004/08/22 06:17:45 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B drv_getparm
\- driver retrieve kernel parameter
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "int drv_getparm(unsigned int " parm ", void *" valp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I parm
the system parameter to retrieve.
.TP
.I valp
is a pointer to the area to place the returned value.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR drv_getparm ()
returns the parameter requested by
.I parm
into the area pointed to by
.IR valp .
.I parm
can be one of the following values:
.TP \w'MW_PROVIDER\(em'u
.B LBOLT
Returns the value of the Linux jiffies clock.
.TP
.B PPGRP
Returns the process group identifier.
.TP
.B UPROCP
Reads the process table pointer.
.TP
.B PPID
Reads the process id.
.TP
.B PSID
Reads the session id.
.TP
.B TIME
Reads the current time in seconds.
.TP
.B UCRED
Returns a pointer to the callers credential structure.
.TP
.B UPROCP
Returns a pointer to the caller's user task structure.
.TP
.B STRMSGSIZE
Returns the maximum streams message size.
.TP
.B HW_PROVIDER
Returns the OEM provider string, in this case
.BR "\*(lqLinux \*(rq UTS_RELEASE" .
.PP
.BR drv_getparm ()
provides an architecture independent means of accessing these system
values.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR drv_getparm ()
is a machine, architecture and implementation independent way of obtaining
access to kernel variables and structures.
For portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules,
.BR drv_getparm ()
is the preferred method of accessing these primary variables.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR drv_getparm ()
can be called from any context.
The task structure returned by
.B UPROCP
is only valid when called in user context.
.\"
.\"
.SH "MP-STREAMS"
.PP
.BR drv_getparm ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR drv_getparm ()
places the requested parameter in the memory area pointed to by
.I valp
and returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR drv_getparm ()
returns minus one (-1), leaving the memory area pointed to by
.I valp
unchanged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR drv_getparm ()
leaves the memory pointed to by
.I valp
unchanged, and returns minus one (-1).
.BR drv_getparm ()
will fail when
.I value_p
is
.BR NULL ,
or
.I parm
is not one of
.BR PPGRP ,
.BR UPROCP ,
.BR PPID ,
.BR PSID " or " UCRED .
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR drv_hztomsec (9),
.BR drv_hztousec (9),
.BR drv_msectohz (9),
.BR drv_priv (9),
.BR drv_usectohz (9),
.BR drv_usecwait (9),
.BR ddi_get_lbolt (9),
.BR ddi_get_pid (9),
.BR ddi_get_time (9),
.BR ddi_get_cred (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR drv_getparm ()
is source-level compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" ,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg,
document
.BR drv_getparm ().
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
provides
.BR drv_getparm (),
but it is also replaced with 
.IR Solaris \(rg
DDI functions
.BR ddi_get_lbolt (9),
.BR ddi_get_pid (9),
.BR ddi_get_time (9),
and
.BR ddi_get_cred (9).
.IP \(em
.BR drv_getparm ()
provides parameters
.BR UPROCP ", " STRMSGSIZE " and " HW_PROVIDER
for source compatibility with
.IR UnixWare \(rg.
.IP \(em
.BR drv_getparm ()
provides symbols for
.BR DRV_MAXBIOSIZE " and " SYSCRED ;
however,
.BR drv_getparm ()
always returns minus one (1) for these symbols.
.IP \(em
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
and
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
do not document
.BR drv_getparm ().
.IP \(em
.I LiS
does not provide
.BR drv_getparm ().
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ;
.[
usldk
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
A version of
.BR drv_getparm ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

