'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: drv_priv.9.man,v 0.9.2.21 2006/04/05 09:44:10 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:10 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: drv_priv.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.21  2006/04/05 09:44:10  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DRV_PRIV 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B drv_priv
\- check if the current process is priviledged
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/dki.h>
.HP
.BI "int drv_priv(cred_t *" crp ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I crp
a pointer to the credentials to test for privilege.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR DDI/DKI .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR drv_priv (),
when given a references to a process'
.BR cred_t (9)
credentials structure, returns a value indicating whether the specified
credentials are privileged or not.
.BR drv_priv ()
is an
.I "SVR 4.2 DDI/DKI"
.[
svr42
.]
function intended to insulate the
.I STREAMS
driver or module from the internals of the
.BR cred_t (9)
credentials structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR drv_priv ()
returns zero (0) if the process is privileged; it returns
.RB [ EPERM ]
if the process is not privileged.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR drv_priv ()
always succeeds.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR drv_priv ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR drv_priv ()
is MP-safe, however, the caller is responsible for ensuring exclusive access to
the passed in credentials.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR drv_priv ()
simply checks if either the real user id or effective user id is the root user
id (equal to zero).
.PP
.BR drv_priv ()
is a crude way of checking permissions.  Capabilities,
.BR capable (9),
and secure access lists
should be used instead.  New programs should use Linux functions directly.
.PP
Explicit checks of whether the effective user identifier is zero (0) and
calls to the previous
.BR suser (9)
function should be replaced by
.BR drv_priv ().
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR cred_t (9),
.BR suser (9),
.BR fsuser (9),
.BR capable (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR drv_priv ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR drv_priv ()
is compatible with
.I SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.I SVR 4
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
and
.IR LiS
do not document this function.
.I LiS
does not implement this function.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.PP
New
.B Linux
programs should use
.BR capable (9).
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR drv_priv ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
