'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: dtimeout.9.man,v 0.9.2.16 2008-04-28 12:53:49 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:49 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: dtimeout.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.16  2008-04-28 12:53:49  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.15  2006/04/05 09:44:10  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DTIMEOUT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B dtimeout
\- start a timer for a specified processor
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.PP
.B #define _UW7_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "typedef void " timo_fcn_t "(caddr_t arg);
.HP
.BI "toid_t dtimeout(timo_fcn_t *" timo_fcn ", caddr_t " arg ", long " ticks ", pl_t " pl ", processorid_t " cpu );
.HP
.BI "toid_t dtimeout(void (*" timo_fcn ")(), void *" arg ", long " ticks ", pl_t " pl ", processorid_t " cpu ", void *" arg2 ", void *" arg3 ", void *" arg4 );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'\ timo_fcn\ 'u
.I timo_fcn
the function to call on expiry.
.PD 0
.TP
.I arg
the argument to pass to the callback function.
.TP
.I ticks
the number of ticks to wait before expiry.
.TP
.I pl
the priority level at which to run the call-out function.
.TP
.I cpu
the cpu on which to execute the call-out function.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR dtimeout ()
starts a timer with duration
.I ticks
number of system clock ticks, that,  upon expiry will invoke the supplied
timeout function callback
.I timo_fcn
(if the
.I timo_fcn
function pointer is
.RB non- NULL )
with the supplied argument
.IR arg ,
at the specified priority level
.IR pl ,
and on the specified processor
.IR cpu .
The timeout call-out function
.I timo_fcn
is a function returning
.B void
and taking a single
.B caddr_t
argument as follows:
.sp
.nf
.BI "typedef void timo_fcn_t(caddr_t " arg );
.fi
.PP
The call-out function
.I timo_fcn
will be executed at some time greater than or equal to the interval specified
in the
.I ticks
argument on the specified
.I cpu
and at the specified priority level
.IR pl .
.PP
The
.B toid_t
timeout identifier returned by
.BR dtimeout ()
is suitable to be used by 
.BR untimeout (9)
to cancel the timeout function call-out.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR dtimeout ()
returns a
.B toid_t
defined as follows:
.sp
.nf
.B typedef int toid_t;
.B typedef int timout_id_t;
.fi
.PP
Upon success,
.BR dtimeout ()
returns a non-zero timeout id and the timeout is scheduled.
Upon failure,
.BR dtimeout ()
returns a zero timeout id and no timeout is scheduled.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR dtimeout ()
fails, it returns a zero (0) timeout id.
.BR dtimeout ()
fails when it cannot allocate the internal structures for the timeout, when
the arguments are invalid, or the timeout cannot otherwise be scheduled on the
specified processor.  If it is important that a timeout be scheduled with
assurance, the return value should always be checked.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR dtimeout ()
can be called from any context including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR dtimeout ()
is MP-safe.
.PP
Considerations should be given when writing the callback function that a
.BR dtimeout ()
call-out function is asynchronous and can execute at the same time as any user
context, module procedure, call-out, callback, soft interrupt or interrupt
service routine not masked by the
.I pl
argument.
In addition, for sufficiently small
.I tick
values, the call-out function may execute before the call to
.BR dtimeout ()
returns.
However, the callback function will be serviced on the CPU specified.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
For architectural independence,
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should not specify the
.I ticks
argument directly, but should use the
.BR drv_usectohz (9)
and
.BR drv_hztousec (9)
DKI functions.  The Linux
.B HZ
define or some other quantum independent conversion function to convert to and
from microseconds or some other absolute unit of time.
.PP
.B toid_t
and
.B timout_id_t
should eb treated as an opaque type that can be tested for equality to zero.
The value should not otherwise be manipulated.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
implements timeout id values internally as a pointer to a
.B strevent
structure containing a Linux timer.  on 64-bit architectures,
.B strevent
structures are allocated in low or high memory only so that pointers can be
converted to integers and visa versa.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
also includes a version field in the least significant bits of the pointer to
handle late calls to
.BR untimeout (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR untimeout (9),
.BR timeout (9),
.BR qtimeout (9),
.BR quntimeout (9),
.BR drv_usectohz (9),
.BR drv_hztousec (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR dtimeout ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR dtimeout ()
is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.I "SVR 4"
.[
svr4spg
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
allows a
.B TO_PERIODIC
flag to be logically ORed with the
.I ticks
argument to indicate a periodic timer.
.IP \(em
.IR IRIX \(rg
.[
irixdoc
.]
declares
.BR dtimeout ()
with the second form with a callback function taking 4 arguments as defined in the second
declaration under
.RI \(lq SYNOPSIS \(rq
above.  Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not use this function.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR dtimeout ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4 MP" .
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
