'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: dupb.9.man,v 0.9.2.20 2007/05/17 22:01:11 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/05/17 22:01:11 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: dupb.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.20  2007/05/17 22:01:11  brian
.\" - corrections from strsctp performance testing
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.19  2006/04/05 09:44:10  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DUPB 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B dupb
\- duplicate a \fISTREAMS\fR message block
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *dupb(mblk_t *" bp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I bp
a pointer to the message block to duplicate.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR dupb ()
generates a new copy of the message block which references the same data block
as the passed in data block.  The
.IR b_wptr " and " b_rptr
pointers of the new message block are set to the same values as the duplicated
message block.  The data block remains untouched.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR dupb ()
returns a pointer to the duplicated message block.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR dupb ()
returns a
.B NULL
pointer.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR dupb ()
fails, it returns a
.B NULL
pointer.
.BR dupb ()
can fail because the passed in message pointer,
.IR bp ,
is
.BR NULL ;
the new message block cannot be allocated; or, the reference count,
.IR db_ref ,
of the data block to be duplicated has reached 255.
Normaly if
.BR dupb ()
fails,
.BR esbbcall (9)
should be called with the
.I priority
associated with the message for which duplication failed.  However, the
reference count
.IR db_ref ,
on the data block to be duplicated should be checked for 255. When the
duplication fails due to this maximum count, copying the data block using
.BR copyb (9)
could succeed.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR dupb ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR dupb ()
is MP-safe; however, it is the responsibility of the caller to ensure
exclusive access to the passed in message block.  On return, the caller has
the only reference to the returned message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR dupb ()
allocates message blocks with priority
.BR BPRI_MED .
See
.BR allocb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR esbbcall (9),
.BR copyb (9),
.BR copymsg (9),
.BR dupmsg (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR dubp ()
has no known bugs.
.PP
Versions of
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
previous to
.B 0.9.2.3
had the bug that the reference count on the data block was be permitted to
wrap to zero.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR dupb ()
is source-level compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
and LiS
.[
LiS
.]
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
When
.BR dupb ()
is passed a
.B NULL
.I bp
pointer, the results are undefined.  When LiS
.BR dupb ()
is passed a
.B NULL
.I bp
pointer, it returns
.BR NULL .
.\".IP \(em
.\"Symbol
.\".BR lis_dupb ()
.\"is provided for compatibility with LiS.  See
.\".BR liscompat (9).
.\".BR lis_dupb ()
.\"calls
.\".BR dupb ()
.\"directly.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR dupb ()
appears as part of
.I "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR dupb ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
