'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: dupmsg.9.man,v 0.9.2.22 2008-04-28 12:53:49 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:49 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: dupmsg.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.22  2008-04-28 12:53:49  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.21  2007/05/17 22:01:11  brian
.\" - corrections from strsctp performance testing
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.20  2006/04/05 09:44:10  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH DUPMSG 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B dupmsg
\- duplicate a \fISTREAMS\fR message
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *dupmsg(mblk_t *" mp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I mp
a pointer to a message to duplicate.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR dupmsg ()
duplicates all of the message blocks of a message, keeping the same data
blocks.
The data blocks are reused.  Each data block will have its reference counter
incremented.  If one duplicate message alters the data in a data block, the
change affects all duplicate messages.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR dupmsg ()
returns a pointer to the duplicate message.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR dupmsg ()
returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR dupmsg ()
fails it returns
.BR NULL .
.BR dupmsg ()
fails when the passed in message pointer
.I mp
is
.BR NULL ;
an allocation failure occurs on a message block while duplicating; or, the
reference count of a data block in the message has reached the maximum of 255.
See
.BR dupb (9).
.PP
Normally, if
.BR dupmsg ()
fails and
.I mp
is not
.BR NULL ,
.BR esbbcall(9) 
should be called with the
.I priority
associated with the message for which duplication failed.  However, if the
reference count,
.IR db_ref ,
of a data block in the message has reached the maximum of 255,
.BR copymsg (9)
might succeed and a buffer callback is not appropriate.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR dupmsg ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR dupmsg ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR dupmsg ()
is implemented as a looping call to
.BR dupb (9).
One call to
.BR dupb (9)
is made for each message block.  If
.BR dupb (9)
fails, the partially duplicated message is freed using
.BR freemsg (9).
.PP
See notices under
.BR dupb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR dupb (9),
.BR copyb (9),
.BR copymsg (9),
.BR freemsg (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR dupmsg ()
has no known bugs.
.PP
Versions of
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
previous to
.B 0.9.2.3
had the bug that the reference count on data blocks was be permitted to
wrap to zero.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR dupmsg ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
When
.BR dupmsg ()
is passed a
.B NULL
.I mp
pointer, the results are undefined.  When
.B LiS
.[
lis
.]
.BR dupmsg ()
is passed a
.B NULL
.I mp
pointer, it returns
.BR NULL .
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should not pass
.B NULL
or invalid message block pointers to this function.
.IP \(em
.B LiS
used to have some problems serializing access to the reference count in data blocks which caused
inconsistencies in the reference count when duplicate messages were freed.
.\".PP
.\"Symbol
.\".BR lis_dupmsg ()
.\"is provided for compatibility with
.\".BR LiS .
.\"See
.\".BR liscompat (9).
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR dupmsg ()
appears as part of
.I "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR dupmsg ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
