'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: enableq.9.man,v 0.9.2.7 2005/05/14 08:34:23 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/14 08:34:23 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH ENABLEQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B enableq
\- schedules a \fISTREAMS\fR message queue service routine
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int enableq(queue_t *" q );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I q
the queue to enable.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR enableq ()
schedules the service procedure of the queue pointed to by
.I q
to be run by
.BR runqueues (9).
If the queue pointed to by
.I q
does not have a service proceedure (i.e.
.I q->q_info->qi_srvp
is
.BR NULL )
or has been disabled with a call to
.BR noenable (9),
then
.BR enableq ()
will fail to schedule the service procedure.
Whether the queue can be scheduled with
.BR enableq ()
can be determined to some degree with a call to
.BR canenable (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR enableq ()
is normally called to indirectly invoke the execution of
.IR q 's
service procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR enableq ()
successfully schedules the queue service procedure with
.BR qschedule (9),
it returns true (1).  When
.BR enableq ()
fails to schedule the queue service procedure, it returns false (0).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR enableq ()
silently if the
.B QNOENB
flag was set by
.BR noenable (9)
for the queue,
.IR q ,
or fi the queue has no service procedure
.RI ( q->q_info->qi_srvp
is
.BR NULL ).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR enableq ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR enableq ()
is MP-safe.
.PP
If the queue was not already enabled
.RB ( srv (9)
procedure already scheduled to run) on a different CPU,
.BR enableq ()
schedules the service procedure of
.I q
on the current CPU.  In this case, the queue service procedure for
.I q
will not execute until after
.BR enableq ()
returns and the function that called
.BR enableq ()
returns or encounters a preemption point.
However, if the queue is already scheduled by another processor  and
.BR enableq ()
was not called from a context synchronous with the service procedure, another
processor may run the service procedure before
.BR enableq ()
returns.
.PP
Therefore,
.BR enableq ()
should be called with
.I STREAMS
synchronization in effect, or hold the necessary private locks across the
call to
.BR enableq (),
if it is ncessary to synchronize the call to
.BR enableq ()
with execution of the service procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR enableq ()
fails and returns false (0) if
.B QNOENB
is set.
.PP
If the queue has already been enabled due to internal
.I STREAMS
scheduler actions, or a previous call to
.BR qschedule (9)
that has not yet completed service,
.BR enableq ()
will have no effect.
.PP
Enabling a queue from within its own service procedure,
.BR srv (9),
will not reschedule the service procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR canenable (9),
.BR noenable (9),
.BR enableok (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR enableq ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR enableq ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR enableq ()
will only schedule the queue for later service.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCES
.PP
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR qenable ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
The original versions of
.BR qenable ()
returned
.B int
instead of
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.TI
