'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: esbbcall.9.man,v 0.9.2.25 2005/12/06 09:39:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/12/06 09:39:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH ESBBCALL 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B esbbcall
\- install a buffer callback for an extended \fISTREAMS\fR message block
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "bcid_t esbbcall(int " priority ", void (*" function ")(long), long " arg );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP \w'\ priority\ 'u
.I priority
the priority of the request for a message block.
.PD 0
.TP
.I function
the function to call when a block of the requested priority is available.
.TP
.I arg
the argument to pass the callback function.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
When allocation of a message block fails as a result of a failed call to
.BR esballoc (9),
the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure should place a
.I STREAMS
message that invoked
.BR esballoc (9)
call back on the queue with
.BR putbq (9)
and call the
.BR esbbcall ()
function with the queue's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure as the
.I function
argument and a pointer to the queue as the
.I arg
argument to the call.  The
.I priority
argument should be the same as the
.I priority
argument issued to the
.BR esballoc (9).
.PP
In this way, the queue
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure will be recalled once there is
sufficient memory to allocate the requested message block.
.PP
The arguments to
.BR esbbcall ()
are interpreted as follows:
.TP \w'\ priority\ 'u
.I priority
The priority of the requested message.  The priority can be one of the
following values:
.RS
.TP \w'\ BPRI_MED\ 'u
.B BPRI_LO
The message block needed is for a low priority buffer.
.PD 0
.TP
.B BPRI_MED
The message block needed is for a medium priority buffer.
.TP
.B BPRI_HI
The message block needed is for a high priority buffer.
.PD
.PP
The
.I priority
argument is ignored by
.I SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
and later
.I STREAMS
implementations.  This
argument is only used by
.I SVR 3
.[
svr3
.]
implementations.
This should be the priority which was provided to the failed
.BR esballoc (9)
call.
.RE
.TP
.I function
The callback function to invoke when a buffer of the required size and message
of the requested priority becomes available.  This is normally the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure which failed a call to
.BR esballoc (9)
or it is a function pointer to
.BR qenable (9).
.TP
.I arg
The argument to pass to the callback function.  This is normally a pointer to
the queue whose
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure failed the
.BR esballoc (9).
.\"
.\"
.\".SH USAGE
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR esbbcall ()
returns a
.B bcid_t
defined as follows:
.nf
\fC\s-2
typedef int bcid_t;
typedef int bufcall_id_t;
\s+2\fP
.fi
.PP
Upon success,
.BR esbbcall ()
returns
a non-zero bufcall id and the specified
.I function
will be called with the specified
.I arg
at a later time when combined message data blocks become available.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR esbbcall ()
returns zero (0) and no call will be generated to the specified
.IR function .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR esbbcall ()
encounters an error, it returns zero (0).
.PP
.BR esbbcall ()
returns zero (0) when the function pointer to the callback function,
.I function
is
.BR NULL ,
or
.BR esbbcall ()
cannot allocate the necessary internal structures.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR esbbcall ()
can be called from any context, including user context,
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.IR qi_putp (9),
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedures,
.BR bufcall (9),
.BR qbufcall (9),
.BR timeout (9),
.BR qtimeout (9)
callbacks,
and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR esbbcall ()
is MP-safe.
.PP
Considerations should be given when writing the callback function that a
.BR esbbcall ()
callback function can execute at the same time as any
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.IR qi_putp (9),
.IR qi_srvp (9),
procedure,
.BR bufcall (9),
.BR esbbcall (),
.BR qbufcall (9),
.BR timeout (9),
.BR qtimeout (9)
callback,
and interrupt service routines (on another processor).
.PP
However, the
.BR esbbcall ()
callback function will be serviced by the same thread as the thread from which
the
.BR esbbcall ()
was issued.  Therefore, the callback function will not execute
until after
.BR esbbcall ()
returns.
Because the servicing thread and the current thread are the same, the
.BR esbbcall ()
callback will not be invoked until after the function that called
.BR esbbcall ()
returns.
This means that it is safe to store the returned bufcall id in global
variables accessed by the callback function.
.PP
This is the same for
.BR qtimeout (9),
.BR qbufcall (9),
.BR timeout (9),
.BR bufcall (9)
and
.BR esbbcall ()
functions.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH NOTICES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR esbbcall ()
is implemented by calling
.BR bufcall (9)
with a
.I size
argument of zero (0).
That is,
.BI esbbcall( priority ", " function ", " arg )
calls
.BI bufcall( 0 ", " priority ", " function ", " arg )\fR.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
It is typical to see
.BR esbbcall ()
used to merely enable a queue from a service procedure as follows:
.nf
\fC\s-2
 1  void
 2  xxx_free_func(long data)
 3  {
 4      kfree((void *) data);
 5  }
 6  
 7  int
 8  xxx_srvp(queue_t *q)
 9  {
10      priv_t priv = q->q_ptr;
11      mblk_t *mp, *dp;
12  
13      while ((mp = getq(q))) {
14          unsigned char *buf;
15          size_t size = msgdsize(mp);
16          frtn_t free_rtn;
17  
18          priv->bufcall = 0;
19  
20          switch (mp->b_datap->db_type) {
21  
22          case M_PROTO:
23  
24              if (!(buf = kmalloc(size,
25                                  GFP_ATOMIC |
26                                  GFP_DMA))) {
27                  putbq(q, mp);
28                  priv->bufcall =
29                      bufcall(size, BPRI_MED,
30                              (void *) &qenable,
31                              (long) q);
32                  if (priv->bufcall == 0)
33                      qenable(q);
34                  return (0);
35              }
36  
37              free_rtn.free_func = &xxx_free_func;
38              free_rtn.free_arg = (long) buf;
39  
40              if (!(dp = esballoc(buf, size,
41                                  BPRI_MED,
42                                  &free_rtn))) {
43                  putbq(q, mp);
44                  xxx_free_func((long) buf);
45                  priv->bufcall =
46                      esbbcall(BPRI_MED,
47                               (void *) &qenable,
48                               (long) q);
49                  if (priv->bufcall == 0)
50                      qenable(q);
51                  return (0);
52              }
53  
54              putnext(q, dp);
55              freemsg(mp);
56              return (0);
57  
58          /* ... */
59          }
60      }
61      return (0);
62  }
\s+2\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR putbq (9),
.BR esballoc (9),
.BR unbufcall (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR esbbcall ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR esbbcall ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR esbbcall ()
is provided by
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
for compatibility with some implementations.
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
do not document this function.
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR LiS ,
.IR MacOT \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
document this function.
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers concerned with portability to or from
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
or
.IR UXP/V \(rg
will call
.BR bufcall (9)
with a
.I size
argument of zero, instead of calling
.BR esbbcall ().
.IP \(em
.BR esbbcall ()
allocates a
.B strevent
structure which is then linked into the
.I strbcalls
system variable and sets the
.I strbcwait
flag which causes
.BR kmem_free (9)
to set the
.I qrunflag
when memory becomes available.
The bufcall list is thus scheduled to run on the next invocation of
.BR runqueues (9).
This procedure is consistent with that described for
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
magic
.]
.IP ""
Under
.IR LiS ,
.BR esbbcall ()
does not actually generate a callback function once a buffer of the
appropriate size becomes available.  Instead,
.I LiS
starts a timer.  When the timer expires, the ability to allocate the necessary buffers is checked
and the callback function invoked if it is now possible to allocate the necessary structure and
buffers.  This is no entirely consistent with
.I SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
operation.
.IP \(em
.BR esbbcall ()
assigns a packed out dating pointer into the integer
.B bcid_t
returnes.  This pointer is a sequence pointer to a
.B strevent
object that expires when the event's sequence number is incremented.  This
permits unpacking and dereferencing of the pointer instead of searches for id
numbers in
.B strevent
lists for speed.
.IP ""
.I LiS
builds a linked list of buffer call structures and assigns an integer id to each structure.
Searches for unique buffer ids when ids are assigned and searches for buffer ids when
.BR unbufcall (9)
is called are linear searches that are slow and inefficient.  In fact, \*(lqThe Magic Garden\*(rq
explains that in
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
a
.BR esbbcall ()
results in the create of a
.B strevent
structure which is linked ot the
.I strbcalls
system variable and sets the
.I strbcwait
flag which then causes
.BR kmem_free (9)
to set the
.IR qrunflag .
At no point in this process is an integer id assigned to the
.B strevent
structure.  This means that
.I LiS
meaninglessly assigns an integer id to the buffer call structure and the inefficiencies of linear
searches are pointless.
.\".IP \(em
.\"Symbol
.\".BR lis_esbbcall ()
.\"is provided for compatibility with
.\".IR LiS .  See
.\".BR liscompat (9).
.\".BR lis_esbbcall ()
.\"returns
.\".BR int .
.IP \(em
Depending on the system,
.BR esbbcall ()
returns
.BR int ", " bcid_t ", " bufcall_id_t " or even " toid_t .
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
assigns a type of
.B int
to
.BR bcid_t ", " bufcall_id_t " and " toid_t 
to avoid compatibility issues.
.IP \(em
.IR IRIX \(rg
documents
.[
irixdoc
.]
.BR esbbcall ()
as returning
.BR toid_t .
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
also defines a
.B toid_t
as
.BR int .
See
.BR timeout (9).
.IP \(em
.IR IRIX \(rg
documents
.[
irixdoc
.]
that the callback function will be called with local
.I STREAMS
driver interrupts disabled.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ;
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR esbbcall ()
appeared as part of
.I "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR esbbcall ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
