'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: freemsg.9.man,v 0.9.2.11 2005/04/09 09:31:47 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/04/09 09:31:47 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH FREEMSG 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B freemsg
\- frees a \fISTREAMS\fR message
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "void freemsg(mblk_t *" mp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I mp
the message to free.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR freemsg ()
frees the
.IR STREAMS (4)
message pointed to by
.I mp
and the associated message blocks, data blocks and data buffers.
.PP
Freeing the message blocks of the message might or might not result in the
deallocation of the message blocks, data blocks or data buffers, depending
upon the internal implementation, the binding of message blocks to data blocks
and whether the buffers are internal or external buffers.
.PP
For external data buffers that are to be freed, the
.I function
will be called with the
.I arg
provided previously to a
.BR esballoc (9)
call.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR freemsg ()
returns void.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the block pointer,
.IR bp ,
passed to
.BR freeb ()
is
.BR NULL ,
then
.BR freeb ()
will silently fail.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR freemsg ()
can be called from any context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR freemsg ()
is MP-safe.  It is the caller's responsibility to ensure that it has the last
remaining reference to the message blocks in the passed in message.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR freemsg (9)
is implemented with a looping call to
.BR freeb ().
.PP
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
uses a complicated message block and data block binding scheme with embedded
data buffers
.B FASTBUF
or less in size.  Determining the point at which a buffer is actually freed is
rather complicated.
.PP
In addition,
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
uses a free list to hold freed message blocks and data blocks.  It is
particularly inefficient for cache performance to do this.
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
should use kernel memory caches instead and should free the message blocks and
data blocks when they are no longer used to allow existing cache slots to be
reused.  Bypassing the kernel memory allocation and deallocation mechanisms
by using a free list results in poorer performance than might be expected by
those that do not understand kernel memory caching mechanisms.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR allocb (9),
.BR esballoc "(9) and
.BR freeb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR freemsg ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR freemsg ()
is source-level compatible with SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI,
.IR Solaris \(rg
and LiS
.[
LiS
.]
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.IP \(em
.PP
Symbol
.BR lis_freemsg ()
is provided for binary compatibility with LiS.  See
.BR lisbcm (9).
.BR lis_freemsg ()
calls
.BR freemsg ()
directly.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR freemsg ()
appeared first in SVR 3.
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
