'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: freeq.9.man,v 0.9.2.10 2005/04/20 18:41:34 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/04/20 18:41:34 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH FREEQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B freeq, mi_freeq
\- deallocate a \fISTREAMS\fR queue pair
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "freeq(queue_t *" q );
.PP
.B #define _MAC_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/pse.h>
.HP
.BI "void mi_freeq(queue_t *" q );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I q
the read queue of the queue pair to free.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR freeq ()
deallocates a queue pair that was previously allocated with
.BR allocq (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR freeq ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR freeq ()
always succeeds.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR freeq ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
Because the queue is flushed before freeing, the same considerations as are given in
.BR flushq (9)
must be taken before calling
.BR freeq ()
from interrupt context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR freeq ()
is MP-safe.  The caller must ensure that it has the last references to the
passed in queue.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Although this function is documented in
.I STREAMS
it is not normally called directly by
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR allocq (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR freeq ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR freeq ()
is compatible with LiS
.[
LiS
.]
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Under LiS,
.BR freeq ()
does not check to see that the queue pair is not still connected in a stream.
.PP
Symbol
.BR lis_freeq ()
is provided for compatibility with LiS.  See
.BR liscompat (9).
.BR lis_freeq ()
simply calls
.BR freeq ()
directly.  This function is not exported by SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI or
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR freeq ()
is compliant to the description of the internal
.BR freeq ()
function in SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
as described in
.IR "\*(lqThe Magic Garden\*(rq" .
.[
magic
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR freeq ()
is an internal SVR 4
.I STREAMS
function described in
.IR "\*(lqThe Magic Garden\*(rq" .
.[
magic
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
