'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: getminor.9.man,v 0.9.2.22 2006/04/05 09:44:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: getminor.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.22  2006/04/05 09:44:12  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH GETMINOR 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B getminor, minor, minor_t
\- get the extended minor device number for a device.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/streams.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "minor_t getminor(dev_t " dev ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I dev
the device number from which to extract the internal minor device number.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR DDI/DKI .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR getmajor (9),
.BR getminor (9)
and
.BR makedevice (9)
are the device handling functions defined in
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
that are normally used by
.I STREAMS
device drivers in the
.IR qi_qopen (9)
procedure.
.PP
.BR getminor ()
gets the internal (extended) device minor number associated with the external
.BR dev_t
device number,
.IR dev .
.BR getminor ()
is the normal architecture independent function call providing newer internal
and extended device numbering replacing older
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
behaviour using a function of the same name.
.PP
.BR getminor ()
is an architecture independent function that obtains the internal (extended)
minor device number associated with device
.IR dev .
.BR geteminor (9),
on the other hand, will return the external (real) minor device number
associated with the device
.IR dev .
.BR minor (9)
was the
.I SVR 3
.[
svr3
.]
name for this function.
.BR minor (3)
also exists as a user subroutine in
.BR <sys/sysmacros.h> .
.PP
.BR getminor ()
supports the concept of extended device numbering.  Under extended device
numbering, a device has a single internal (base) major device number and an
internal (extended) range of minor device numbers (exceeding 0 to 255).  Real
device number consist of a number of major device numbers visible to user
applications, and a range of minor device numbers associated with each major
device limited by the architecture (0 to 255 on
.BR "Linux 2.4" ).
.PP
Following is an example contrasting the mapping of external major and minor
device numbers to internal base major and extended minor device numbers:
.PP
.TS
center tab(;);
nn|nn.
_
\fBgetmajor\fR(9);\fBgetminor(9)\fR;\fBgetemajor\fR(9);\fBgeteminor\fR(9)
_
32;0;32;0
:;255;:;255
:;256;35;0
:;511;:;255
:;512;37;0
:;766;:;255
_
.TE
.PP
.BR getminor ()
is compatible with all device numbering schemes provided by
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
For additional information on device numbering, see section
.RI \(lq "Device Numbering" \(rq,
in
.BR dev_t (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR getminor ()
is used by drivers and modules that do not required knowledge of external
major device numbers and that wish to use a simplified approach to assignment
of minor device numbers for
.BR clone (4)
operations.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR getminor ()
always returns the minor device number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR getminor ()
always succeeds.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR getminor ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR getminor ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Depending on the architecture, the internal extended minor device number may
or may not be equal to one of the external (real) minor device numbers
assigned to the driver.
.PP
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers should neither rely upon the specific value returned by
.BR getminor (),
nor should it hard code the range of minor device numbers available to the
major device number returned by
.BR getmajor (9).
.PP
.B minor_t
is
.BR "unsigned short" .
.PP
The current maximum range of extended minor device numbers is the range
of
.B minor_t
which is
.B unsigned short
or a range from 0 to 65535.
.PP
Although the extended minor device range is currently from 0 to 65535, only
the first 1024 minor device numbers can be represented as external (real)
device numbers.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR getminor ()
extracts the internal (base) major device number from
.I dev
using
.BR getmajor (9)
and the external (real) major and minor device numbers from
.I dev
using
.BR getemajor (9)
and
.BR geteminor (9).
It then uses
.BR itoeminor (9)
using the internal (base) major device number
return by
.BR getmajor (9)
to establish which ordinal belongs to the external major device number
returned by
.BR getemajor (9)
and adds an offset of 256 for each ordinal that the external major device
number is offset from the external base major device number.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR getminor (9),
.BR makedevice (9),
.BR geteminor (9),
.BR ddi_getiminor (9),
.BR dev_t (9),
.BR STREAMS (9),
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR getminor ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR getminor ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4"
.[
svr4
.]
including
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR LiS ,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR Solaris \(rg
provides a somewhat different mechanism.  See
.BR ddi_driver_major (9),
.BR ddi_getiminor (9),
.BR ddi_create_minor_node (9)
and
.BR ddi_remove_minor_node (9).
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare "\(rg DDI8"
provides a different mechanism with registered driver resources and channel
numbers.
.IP \(em
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
does not support extended device numbering, and
.BR getminor ()
on
.I LiS
reduces to
.BR geteminor (9).
.I LiS
version 2.17
is supposed to have some enhancements in this regard.
.IP \(em
.BR getminor ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.I SVR 4.2 MP
and implementations based on
.I SVR 4.2
for the purpose of porting drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because the
.B dev_t
structure for
.B Linux
differs from that of other implementations,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR getminor ()
only provide functionality comparable to
.I SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.  Any and all functionality provided by
.BR getminor ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices is not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS(9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ;
.[
usldk
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR getminor ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4
.]
.BR minor (9)
first appeared as
in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
