'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: insq.9.man,v 0.9.2.28 2005/12/02 12:05:14 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/12/02 12:05:14 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH INSQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B insq
\- inserts a message into a \fISTREAMS\fP message queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int insq(queue_t *" q ", mblk_t *" emp ", mblk_t *" nmp ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I q
the queue into which to insert the message.
.PD 0
.TP
.I emp
the message before which to insert the message.
.TP
.I nmp
the message to insert.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR insq ()
inserts the message pointed to by
.I nmp
before the message pointed to by
.I emp
in the queue specified by
.IR q .
If the message pointer
.I emp
is
.B NULL
it indicates that the message pointed to by
.I nmp
is to be inserted at the end of the queue.
This means that
.BI insq( q ", NULL, " nmp )
is equivalent to
.BI putq( q ", " nmp ).
.PP
If a priority message is inserted into the queue, the queue will always be enabled, as with
.BR qenable (9);
that is, the queue's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure will be scheduled if it exists (and is not already scheduled).
.PP
If a normal message is inserted into an empty queue and the 
.B QWANTR
flag is set for the queue, then the queue will be enabled, as with
.BR enableq (9);
that is, the queue's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure will be scheduled if it exists (and is not already scheduled) and the
.B QNOENB
flag has not been set for the queue with
.BR noenable (9).
.PP
If the insertion of either message into the queue causes the queue or queue band's count to exceed
the queue or queue band's high water mark, then the
.B QFULL
or
.B QB_FULL
bit will be set for the queue or queue band.
.\"
.\"
.SS Message Queueing Priority
.PP
.I STREAMS
queues messages based on message queueing priority.  There are three priority classes for messages
that can be tested with
.BR pcmsg (9):
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lllbsss.
1.:\fIHigh Priority\fP:\fC(pcmsg(db_type) != 0 && b_band == 0)\fP
2.:\fINormal Priority\fP:\fC(pcmsg(db_type) == 0 && b_band >= 0)\fP
3.:\fIOrdinary\fP:\fC(pcmsg(db_type) == 0 && b_band == 0)\fP
.TE
.PP
.BR insq ()
only examines the message class and priority band of the first message block of a message.  If a
high priority
message is passed to
.BR insq ()
with a non-zero
.I b_band
value,
.I b_band
is reset to zero
.RB ( 0 )
before placing the message on the queue.
If a
normal priority
message is passed to
.BR appq ()
with
.I b_band
value greater than the number of
.BR qband (9)
structures associated with the queue,
.BR insq ()
attempts to allocate a new
.BR qband (9)
structure for each band up to and including the band of the message.
(But, see
.RI \(lq COMPATIBILTY \(rq,
below.)
.PP
The message will always be placed in order in the queue.  If the message is a
high priority
message, it will be placed on the queue immediately following other
high priority
messages and ahead of
normal priority
and
ordinary
messages.  If the message is a
normal priority
message with a non-zero
.IR b_band ,
it is placed after other messages in the queue band.
If the message is a
ordinary
message (with a zero
.IR b_band ),
it is placed after all other messages.
.PP
Placing the first message for a queue band onto the queue can result in the allocation of a
.BR qband (9)
structure to provide flow control accounting for the queue band.  Failure to allocate a
.BR qband (9)
structure can cause
.BR insq ()
to fail.  Failure can be avoided by ensuring that a
.BR qband (9)
structure exists for the band,
.IR b_band ,
using
.BR strqget (9)
or
.BR strqset (9).
.PP
Whether a
.BR qband (9)
exists for a given
.I b_band
can be determined by examining the
.I q_nband
member of the
.BR queue (9)
structure.  When
.BR "q_nband\ >=\ b_band" ,
a structure exists; when
.BR "q_nband\ <\ b_band" ,
one needs to be allocated.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Flow Control"
.PP
If a
high priority
message is placed onto the queue, the queue will always be enabled, as with
.BR qenable (9);
that is, the queue's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure will be scheduled if it exists (and is not already scheduled).
This is true for
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (),
.BR putq (9),
and
.BR putbq (9).
Because this is true, a
high priority
message should never be placed back on a queue by the queue's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure with
.BR putbq (9),
otherwise and indefinite loop could result.
.PP
.BR insq ()
is allowed to enable the queue
.RB ( QNOENB
is not set) if the message is a
normal priority
message, or the
.B QWANTR
flag is set indicating that the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure is ready to read the queue.
.PP
If a
normal priority
message with a non-zero
.I b_band
is placed onto an empty queue band, the queue will be enabled, as with
.BR enableq (9);
that is, the queue's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure will be scheduled if it exists (and is not already scheduled) and the
.B QNOENB
flag has not been set for the queue with
.BR noenable (9).
.PP
If a
ordinary
message with a zero
.I b_band
is placed onto an empty queue and the
.B QWANTR
flag is set for the queue, then the queue will be enabled, as with
.BR enableq (9);
that is, the queue's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure will be scheduled if it exists (and is not already scheduled) and the
.B QNOENB
flag has not been set for the queue with
.BR noenable (9).
Another way of putting this is that
.BR insq ()
will enable the queue if the queue is not inhibited with
.BR noenable (9)
and one of the following conditions also holds true:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
The module or driver has just been opened for the first time: that is, the queue is empty and has
always been empty.
.IP \(bu
.BR getq (9)
found no message queued on its last call and no message has been queued since.
.PP
When an ordinary message is enqueued by
.BR insq (),
it will cause the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure to be scheduled only if the queue was previously empty, and a previous
.BR getq (9)
call returns
.B NULL
(that is, the
.B QWANTR
flag is set).  If there are messages on the queue,
.BR insq ()
presumes that the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure is blocked by flow control and the procedure will be rescheduled by
.I STREAMS
when the block is removed.
.PP
As a general rule for
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (),
.BR putq (9),
and
.BR putbq (9),
the queue is enabled whenever the message placed on the message queue becomes the
first message on the queue, unless the message is a
normal priority
message and the queue has been disabled with
.BR noenable (9),
or the message was placed with
.BR putbq (9).
.\".PP
.\".BR insq ()
.\"only looks at the priority band of the first message block.  If a
.\"high priority
.\"message is passed to
.\".BR insq ()
.\"with a non-zero
.\".I b_band
.\"value,
.\".I b_band
.\"is reset to zero
.\".RB ( 0 )
.\"before placing the messge on the queue.  If the message is passed to
.\".BR insq ()
.\"with a
.\".I b_band
.\"value that is greater than the number of
.\".BR qband (9)
.\"structures associated with the queue,
.\".BR insq ()
.\"tries to allocate a new
.\".BR qband (9)
.\"structure for each band up to and including the band of the message.
.\".PP
.\"The above rules apply to
.\".BR appq (9),
.\".BR insq (),
.\".BR putq (9),
.\".BR putbq (9).
.\".PP
.\".BR insq ()
.\"will not schedule a queue if
.\".BR noenable (9)
.\"has been previously called for this queue.
.\".BR noenable ()
.\"instructs
.\".BR insq ()
.\"to enqueue the message when called by this queue, but not to schedule the
.\".IR qi_srvp (9)
.\"procedure.
.\".BR noenable (9)
.\"doesnot prevent the queue from being scheduled by a flow control back-enable.  The inverse of
.\".BR noenable (9)
.\"is
.\".BR enableok (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR insq ()
is used when it is necessary to place insert a message into the queue somewhere other than at the
tail of the queue; or, when
.I q
has been frozen by the caller with
.BR freezestr (9),
and neither
.BR putq "(9) nor " putbq (9)
can be used.
.PP
.BR putq "(9) and " putbq (9)
should not be called for a queue that has been frozen by the caller with
.BR freezestr (9).
Single-party deadlock can result from calling
.BR putq "(9) or " putbq (9)
for a queue frozen by the caller on some implementations of
.IR STREAMS .
.PP
Because
.BI insq( q ", NULL, " mp )
is equivalent to
.BI putq( q ", " mp ),
.BR putq (9)
can effectively be called on a frozen Stream by emulating it using
.BR insq ().
.BR putbq (9)
is a little harder to emulate using
.BR insq (),
but not much: see
.RI \(lq "Example #1" \(rq
under
.RI \(lq EXAMPLES \(rq,
below.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR insq ()
returns true (1) and the message pointed to by
.I nmp
has been inserted into the queue.
Upon failure,
.BR insq ()
returns false (0) and the message pointed to by
.I nmp
remains unaltered.  (See
.RI \*(lq COMPATIBILITY \*(rq,
below.)
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR insq ()
fails, it returns false (0).
.BR insq ()
can fail because the insertion creates a queue band and a queue band structure
could not be allocated.
It is possible to ensure that
.BR insq ()
does not fail by first establishing the queue band structure using
.BR strqset (9).
.BR insq ()
can also fail because the placement of the message would miss-order the queue with regard to the
priority of messages.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR insq ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures, callouts, callbacks, soft
interrupts, and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR insq ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller must ensure validity of the passed in message pointers and
exclusive access to the messages they reference.
On uniprocessor systems, it may be sufficient to block interrupts to ensure the validity of, and
exclusive access to,
.IR emp ;
for both uniprocessor and symmetric multi-processor systems, it is safer to use
.BR freezestr (9).
.PP
Ensuring exclusive access to the passed in message,
.IR emp ,
is difficult on SMP systems, because concurrent calls to
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR putbq (9),
can change
.I emp->b_next
and
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR getq (9),
.BR flushq (9),
.BR flushband (9),
can change
.I emp->b_prev
and invalidate a previous
.I emp
pointer dereference (.e.g, by removing the message from the queue and freeing it).
.PP
The validity of pointers to, and exclusive access to, the passed message,
.IR emp ,
on both UP and SMP systems can be ensured most easily by freezing the Stream from the queue,
.IR q ,
using
.BR freezestr (9)
before taking the
.I emp
reference, and across the call to
.BR insq ().
However, it is also possible to ensure exclusive access with
.BR qwriter (9),
.BR streams_put (9),
with appropriate synchronization boundaries
.RB ( STR_PERQUEUE " or " D_MTPERQ ),
or with module private locks.
Because freezing the Stream is not the only way to provide the necessary assurances,
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
does not require that the Stream be frozen by the caller.
.PP
Similar synchronization is necessary for the use of
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (),
and
.BR rmvq (9).
.PP
.BR insq ()
protects dereferencing of the
.I emp->b_prev
pointer with the queue write lock, making it safe to be called concurrent with
.BR putq (9),
.BR putbq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR getq (9),
.BR flushq (9),
.BR flushband (9),
.BR rmvq (9)
or a concurrent call to
.BR insq ().
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Some implementations of
.BR insq ()
ignore the queue class (whether the message is a high priority or normal message) when considering
ordering within the queue and some also when considering enabling of the queue (that is, for
enabling all messages are treated as normal messages).
Ignoring queue priority has some marginal performance advantages.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
does neither:
.BR insq ()
checks queue class when considering ordering within the queue, and it also checks queue class when
applying queue flow control rules.  For additional information on flow control and
.BR insq (),
see
.BR noenable (9).
.PP
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
uses recursive freeze locks, so calling
.BR insq ()
while the queue is frozen with
.BR freezestr (9)
will never cause single-party deadlock.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
If the existing message pointer,
.IR emp ,
is
.BR NULL ,
.BR insq ()
simply executes
.BR putq (9).
If the existing message pointer,
.IR emp ,
is not
.BR NULL ,
then
.BR insq ()
checks to see that
.I emp
is indeed queued on the message queue,
.IR q ,
before proceeding.  Otherwise,
.BR insq ()
indicates failure and prints an error to the system logs.
Some other implementations will panic in this situation.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.SS Example #1 - putq()/putbq() on a Frozen Stream
.PP
The following example shows how to effectively perform
.BR putq (9)
and
.BR putbq (9)
on a Stream frozen by the caller with
.BR freezestr (9)
using
.BR insq ():
.PP
.in +2n
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  int
 2  putq_frozen(queue_t *q, mblk_t *mp)
 3  {
 4      return insq(q, NULL, mp);
 5  }
 6  
 7  int
 8  putbq_frozen(queue_t *q, mblk_t *mp)
 9  {
10      mblk_t *emp = q->q_first;
11  
12      if (DB_TYPE(mp) < QPCTL)
13          for (; emp && (DB_TYPE(emp) >= QPCTL
14                         || emp->b_band > mp->b_band);
15               emp = emp->b_next) ;
16      return insq(q, emp, mp);
17  }
\s+2\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR qenable (9),
.BR enableq (9),
.BR noenable (9),
.BR strqset (9),
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR appq (9),
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR putbq (9),
.BR qprocsoff (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.BR qprocson (9),
.IR qi_qopen (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR insq ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR insq ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4dk
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
When a banded message (a priority message, with a non-zero
.IR b_band )
is placed on a queue with
.BR putq (9),
.BR putbq (9),
.BR insq (),
or
.BR appq (9),
and a
.BR qband (9)
structure does not exist for the band corresponding to
.IR b_band ,
.BR insq ()
tries to allocate
.BR qband (9)
structures for all non-existent bands up to and including the band of the message
and places the resulting
.BR qband (9)
structures into a reverse sorted
.I q_bandp
list on the
.BR queue (9).
.I q_nband
is adjusted accordingly and always reflects the highest allocated band.
.IP ""
This is consistent with the description in the
.IR "SVR 4 STREAMS Programmer's Guide" ,
which states:
\(lqIf a mesages is passed to
.BR insq ()
with a
.I b_band
value that is greater than the number of
.BR qband (9)
structures associated with the queue [member
.I q_nband
in the
.BR queue (9)
structure],
.BR insq ()
tries to allocate a new
.BR qband (9)
structure for each band up to and including the band of the message.\(rq
.[
svr4spg
.]
.IP ""
.IR Solaris \(rg
allocates
.BR qband (9)
structures up to an including
.IR b_band ,
and maintains the
.I q_nband
member of the
.BR queue (9)
structure.
It is safe to assume that other
.IR UNIX \(rg
implementations based on
.I SVR 4
follow
.I SVR 4
as does
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.IP ""
.I LiS
allocates
.BR qband (9)
structures on demand, links them in a sparse array,
and will also reuse
.BR qband (9)
structures that were previously allocated for bands that are currently empty.  This is not a good
approach because user established band high- and low-water marks will be reset to those of the
.BR queue (9)
structure when a subsequent message is place on the reused band.
Also, it is difficult to predict when
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (),
.BR putq (9),
.BR putbq (9),
will fail as a result of failure to allocate a
.BR qband (9)
structure.
This
.I LiS
bug is not perpetuated in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers can rely on intermediate band strutures being allocated
when a priority message is placed on a queue using
.BR insq (),
and may examine the
.I q_nband
member of the
.BR queue (9)
structure to determine whether a
.BR qband (9)
exists for a given band number.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will use
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
instead of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP \(em
.BR insq ()
orders the
.BR qband (9)
structures in the list pointed to by the
.I q_bandp
member of the
.BR queue (9)
structure from highest band number to lowest band number.  This ensures that
higher priority
.BR qband (9)
structures can be accessed faster than lower priority
.BR qband (9)
structures.
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
lists
.BR qband (9)
structures from lowest to highest priority, without gaps (see consideration of allocation above).
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
lists
.BR qband (9)
structures from most recently allocated/reused to least recently allocated/reused.
Neither the
.IR Solaris \(rg
nor the
.I LiS
approach is very efficient.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not depend on the ordering of
.BR qband (9)
structures within the
.I q_bandp
list on the
.BR queue (9)
structure, and, will not access
.BR qband (9)
or
.BR queue (9)
members directly, but will use the portable
.BR strqget (9)
and
.BR strqset (9)
utilities instead.
.IP \(em
.BR insq ()
is a very problematic function for portability: many implementations document subtle differences in
the treatment of ordering of messages and enabling of queues under flow control rules.  Read
carefully the following considerations.
.IP ""
.IR AIX \(rg
documents that queue class is ignored when considering ordering of the queue and only message band
is considered.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IR AIX \(rg
does not document any failure case other than miss-ordering.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.IP ""
.IR HP-UX \(rg
documents that queue class is disregarded when enabling queues with
.BR insq ().
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
That is, the queue will not be enabled if the
.B QNOENB
flag is set, regardless of whether the message is a high priority or normal message.  That is,
without regard to the queue class.
.IP ""
.IR IRIX \(rg
says that miss-ordering results in
.BR insq ()
failure; that failure to allocate a queue band structure can cause
.BR insq ()
to fail, but mentions nothing about ignoring queue class.
.[
irixdoc
.]
.IR IRIX \(rg
description for
.BR noenable (9)
also lumps
.BR insq ()
in with
.BR putbq "(9), and " putq (9).
.[
irixdoc
.]
.IP ""
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
documents that queue class is disregarded by
.BR insq ()
and that the queue will be enabled unless the
.B QNOENB
flag is set, regardless of queue class.
.[
osfdoc
.]
Unfortunately, the
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
description for
.BR noenable (9)
lumps
.BR insq ()
in with
.BR putbq "(9), and " putq (9).
.[
osfdoc
.]
.IP ""
.IR Solaris \(rg
documents that the queue class (high priority or normal message) is ignored, and that the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure is always enabled unless the
.B QNOENB
flag is set.
.[
soldoc
.]
This would tend to indicate that, under
.IR Solaris \(rg,
when a high priority message (e.g.
.BR M_PCPROTO (9))
is inserted into the queue with
.BR insq (),
that the queue will not be scheduled for service if the
.B QNOENB
bit has been set with
.BR noenable (9).
Unfortunately, the
.IR Solaris \(rg
description for
.BR noenable (9)
lumps
.BR insq ()
in with
.BR putbq "(9), and " putq (9).
.[
soldoc
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
does not document whether
.BR insq ()
will fail from an attempt to miss-order the queue.
.[
soldoc
.]
Also,
.IR Solaris \(rg
does not document any failure situations for
.BR insq ().
.[
soldoc
.]
.IP ""
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
does not mention queue class.
.[
suxdoc
.]
It does say, however, that an attempt by
.BR insq ()
to miss-order the queue will fail.  Also, that failure to allocate a queue band structure will result
in failure.  Also, the
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
description for
.BR noenable (9)
lumps
.BR insq ()
in with
.BR putbq "(9), and " putq (9).
.[
suxdoc
.]
.IP ""
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documents that an attempt to miss-order the queue results in failure of
.BR insq ().
.[
uw7doc
.]
.IR UnixWare \(rg
does not indicate that queue class is in any way ignored when ordering or updating flow control
parameters.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.IR UnixWare \(rg
description for
.BR noenable (9)
lumps
.BR insq ()
in with
.BR putbq "(9), and " putq (9).
.[
uw7doc
.]
.IP ""
.IR UXP/V \(rg
documents that an attempt to miss-order the queue causes
.BR insq ()
to fail.
.[
uxpdoc
.]
.IR UXP/V \(rg
also says that queue class is ignored, but the message band is considered for ordering.
.[
uxpdoc
.]
Also,
.IR UXP/V \(rg
description of
.BR noenable (9)
says that it controls
.BR insq ()
for any message, whether high priority or normal.
.[
uxpdoc
.]
.IP ""
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR IRIX \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
document that if an attempt is made to miss-order the queue,
.BR insq ()
fails and returns false (0).
.[
aixdoc
.]
.[
irixdoc
.]
.[
uw7doc
.]
.IP \(em
.BR insq ()
considers queue class both for ordering constraints as well as for queue scheduling with regard to
flow control, following the
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
behaviour.
.IP ""
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
document that queue class is ignored by
.BR insq ().
.[
aixdoc
.]
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.[
osfdoc
.]
.[
soldoc
.]
.[
uxpdoc
.]
.IP ""
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
indicate that queue scheduling is suppressed by
.BR noenable (9)
for both normal and high priority messages inserted with
.BR insq ().
.[
aixdoc
.]
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.[
uxpdoc
.]
.IP ""
Unfortunately, when describing
.BR noenable (9),
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
lump
.BR insq ()
in with
.BR putbq "(9) and " putq (9)
when describing enabling when the
.B QNOENB
flag is set.
.[
soldoc
.]
.[
osfdoc
.]
That is, scheduling is only suppressed for normal messages enqueued with
.BR insq ().
.IP ""
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
do not mention ignoring message class when inserting message with
.BR insq ().
.[
irixdoc
.]
.[
suxdoc
.]
.[
uw7doc
.]
Also,
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
lump
.BR insq ()
in with
.BR putbq "(9) and " putq (9)
when describing enabling when the
.B QNOENB
flag is set.
.[
irixdoc
.]
.[
suxdoc
.]
.[
uw7doc
.]
That is, scheduling is only suppressed for normal messages enqueued with
.BR insq ().
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not insert high priority messages into queues.  If it is absolutely
necessary to insert a high priority message into a queue,
portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not rely upon
.BR insq ()
to schedule a queue when a high priority message is inserted into the queue:
instead
.BR qenable (9)
will always be explicitly called after successfully inserting a high priority message into a queue
with
.BR insq ().
This practice might result in an extra scheduling of the queue under some circumstances, however, an
extra scheduling of the queue's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure is more acceptable than the loss of enabling a
queue: the later can cause queue scheduling to postpone indefinitely.
.IP \(em
.BR insq ()
fails if an attempt is made to miss-order the queue, even with regard to queue class.
.IP ""
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
document that an attempt to miss-order the queue will cause
.BR insq ()
to fail.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.[
irixdoc
.]
.[
suxdoc
.]
.[
uw7doc
.]
.[
uxpdoc
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg
and
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
do not mention failure of
.BR insq ()
due to attempts to miss-order the queue.
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.[
osfdoc
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will consider that
.BR insq ()
may fail if an attempt is made to miss-order the queue; but, that an attempt may succeed if the
miss-ordering is with regard to queue class.
.IP \(em
.I LiS
checks queue class when considering ordering, but ignores it when considering flow control (that is,
it does not permit
.BR insq ()
to enable the queue when the
.B QNOENB
flag is set, regardless of the queue class of the inserted message).
.IP \(em
.BR insq ()
passed a
.B NULL
or invalid
.IR q " or " nmp
pointer will have undefined results.
.IP ""
Under
.IR LiS ,
a
.B NULL
.IR q " or " nmp
pointer will return failure (0).
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not pass
.BR insq ()
a
.B NULL
.IR q " or " nmp
pointer.
.IP \(em
.BR insq ()
does not modify
.IR q " or " nmp
when it returns failure (0).
.IP ""
Under older versions of
.IR LiS ,
failure (0) modifies the
.I nmp
message, freeing it with
.BR freemsg (9)
under some circumstances.  This is an
.I LiS
bug.  No passed in structures should
be modified on failure.
Current versions of
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
do not have this problem.
.IP \(em
Older versions of
.I LiS
incorrectly free the message pointed to by
.I nmp
when the call to
.BR insq ()
fails due to a
.B NULL
queue pointer
.IR q ,
or when the queue pointer
.I q
does not point to a valid queue structure, or when the queue pointer
.I q
points to a queue that is closing or has processing turned off.
On the other hand, these versions of
.I LiS
do not free the message pointer pointed to by
.I nmp
when
.BR insq ()
fails because the insertion would mis-sequence the queue.  Because of this
bug, when
.BR insq ()
returns failure (0), it is difficult to determine whether the message
pointed to by
.I nmp
has been freed or not.
Current versions of
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
do not have this problem.
.IP \(em
.BR insq ()
will insert messages into a queue that has had
.BR qprocsoff (9)
called or which is closing
.RI ( qi_qclose (9)
has been called for the queue).
.IP ""
Under
.IR LiS ,
.BR insq ()
will return failure (0) in these cases and older versions will also free the message pointed to by
.IR nmp .
(Current versions of
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
do not free the message.)
Regardless,
.I LiS
behaviour is incorrect for these cases.
.BR qprocsoff (9)
only affects the running of queue procedures and should not affect
.BR insq ().
.IR qi_qclose (9)
may need to exchange messages with lower level queue pairs and manipulate queues: making
.BR insq ()
return
.B NULL
during close is an
.I LiS
bug.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers concerned about portability to
.I LiS
will not use
.BR insq ()
on a stream that is closing or for which
.BR qprocsoff (9)
has been called (presumably from the
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedure, anyway), or for which
.BR qprocson (9)
has yet to be called (from the
.IR qi_qopen (9)
procedure).
.IP \(em
.IR IRIX \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
document that passing an
.I emp
pointer that is not on the queue,
.IR q ,
could result in a system panic.
.[
irixdoc
.]
.[
uw7doc
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will only pass
.RB non- NULL
.I emp
pointers that does point to a valid message that is already on the queue specified by
.IR q .
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
require that a stream be frozen with
.BR freezestr (9)
for the duration of the call to
.BR insq ().
.[
uw7doc
.]
.[
suxdoc
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will freeze a stream with
.BR freezestr (9)
before calling
.BR insq ().
.\".IP \(em
.\"Symbol
.\".BR lis_insq ()
.\"is provided for compatibility with
.\".IR LiS .
.\"See
.\".BR liscompat (9).
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR insq ()
appears as part of
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR insq ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
