'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: irixcompat.9.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-28 12:53:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: irixcompat.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-28 12:53:50  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/10/05 12:17:06  brian
.\" - updates for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.4  2006/04/05 09:44:13  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH IRIXCOMPAT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B irixcompat
\- IRIX \fISTREAMS\fR Compatibility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _IRIX_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.\"
.\"
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
provides a compatibility module,
.BR streams-irixcompat.o ,
that provides compatibility functions that smooth porting of drivers from the
.I Mac OpenTransport 1.5r2
.I STREAMS
environment to
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
The functions provided by this compatibility module are described here.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Many of the functions that are provided by
.IR IRIX \(rg
are also provided by the core
.B streams.o
kernel module of
.BR "Linux Fast-STREAMS" .
Other
.IR IRIX \(rg-specific
functions are provided by the
.B streams-irixcompat.o
compatibility kernel module.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Core Functions"
.PP
Functions that are already available in
.B Linux Fast STREAMS
are as follows:
.PD 0
.PD
.\"
.SS "Specific Functions"
.PP
Functions that are available in the
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.IR IRIX \(rg
compatibility module,
.BR streams-irixcompat.o ,
are as follows:
.PD 0
.PD
.\"
.SS "Transport Functions"
.PP
.PD 0
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.I STREAMS
Functions:



.\"   Link: home
.\"   Link: up
.\"   Link: previous
.\"   Link: next
.\"
.\"                       Appendix A. SGI Driver/Kernel API
.\"   Prev                                                                  Next 
.\"
.\"     ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\"Appendix A. SGI Driver/Kernel API
.\"
.\"   This appendix summarizes the SGI Driver/Kernel Authorized Programming
.\"   Interface in tabular form. The data structures, entry points, and kernel
.\"   functions are listed alphabetically with with clickable links to
.\"   discussions in this book and to their reference pages. The tables also
.\"   show which functions and structures are compatible with SVR4 and which are
.\"   unique to IRIX.
.\"
.\"   The tables in this appendix are based on the reference pages in volume D.
.\"   The reference pages in volume D constitute the formal, engineering
.\"   definition of the Driver/Kernel API. When discussion in this book
.\"   disagrees with the contents of a reference page, the reference page takes
.\"   precedence (however, any such disagreement should be reported by using the
.\"   Feedback menu of the Insight viewer).
.\"
.\"     o "Driver Exported Names" tabulates the names of data and functions that
.\"       a driver must export.
.\"
.\"     o "Kernel Data Structures and Declarations" tabulates the objects used
.\"       in the interface.
.\"
.\"     o "Kernel Functions" tabulates the IRIX kernel services used by drivers.
.\"
.\"   Each table in this appendix has a column headed "Versions." The codes in
.\"   this column have the following meanings:
.\"
.\"   SV   Syntactically and semantically portable from SVR4 UNIX, as documented 
.\"        in the UNIX SVR4.2 Device Driver Reference.                           
.\"   SV*  Syntactically portable from UNIX SVR4, but semantics may differ. Read 
.\"        the discussion and reference page carefully when porting.             
.\"   5.3  Portable from IRIX version 5.3.                                       
.\"   5.3* Portable from IRIX 5.3, but interface has changed in some detail or   
.\"        new ability has been added.                                           
.\"   6.2  Portable from IRIX version 6.2.                                       
.\"   6.4  Introduced in IRIX 6.4.                                               
.\"

.HP
.BR adjmsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Trim bytes from a message.
SV, 5.3
.PD 0
.HP
.BR alenlist_append ()\ \-\ \c
Add a specified address and length
as an item to an existing alenlist.
6.4
.HP
.BR alenlist_clear ()\ \-\ \c
Empty an alenlist.
6.4
.HP
.BR alenlist_create ()\ \-\ \c
Create an empty alenlist.
6.4
.HP
.BR alenlist_cursor_create ()\ \-\ \c
Create an alenlist cursor and associate
it with a specified list.
6.4
.HP
.BR alenlist_cursor_destroy ()\ \-\ \c
Release memory of a cursor.
6.4
.HP
.BR alenlist_cursor_init ()\ \-\ \c
Set a cursor to point at a specified list item.
6.4
.HP
.BR alenlist_cursor_offset ()\ \-\ \c
Query the effective byte offset of a cursor in the buffer described by
a list.
6.4
.HP
.BR alenlist_destroy ()\ \-\ \c
Release memory of an alenlist.
6.4
.HP
.BR alenlist_get ()\ \-\ \c
Retrieve the next sequential address
and length from a list.
6.4
.HP
.BR allocb (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate a message block.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR ASSERT (9)\ \-\ \c
Debugging macro designed for use
in the kernel (compare to assert(3X) ).
5.3
.HP
.BR badaddr (9)\ \-\ \c
Test physical address for input.
5.3
.HP
.BR badaddr_val (9)\ \-\ \c
Test physical address for input and return the input value received.
6.2
.HP
.BR bcanput (9)\ \-\ \c
Test for flow control in a specified priority band.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR bcanputnext (9)\ \-\ \c
Test for flow control in a specified priority band.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR bcmp (9)\ \-\ \c
Compare data between kernel
locations.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR bcopy (9)\ \-\ \c
Copy data between locations in the kernel.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR biodone (9)\ \-\ \c
Mark a buf_t as complete and wake
any process waiting for it.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR bioerror (9)\ \-\ \c
Manipulate error fields within a
buf_t.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR biowait (9)\ \-\ \c
Suspend process pending completion of block I/O.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR bp_mapin (9)\ \-\ \c
Map buffer pages into kernel virtual address space.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR bp_mapout (9)\ \-\ \c
Release mapping of buffer pages.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR bptophys (9)\ \-\ \c
Get physical address of buffer data.
5.3
.HP
.BR brelse (9)\ \-\ \c
Return a buffer to the system's free
list.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR btod (9)\ \-\ \c
Return number of 512-byte "sectors"
in a byte count (round up).
5.3
.HP
.BR btop (9)\ \-\ \c
Return number of I/O pages in a byte count (truncate).
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR btopr (9)\ \-\ \c
Return number of I/O pages in a byte count (round up).
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR bufcall (9)\ \-\ \c
Call a function when a buffer becomes available.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR buf_to_alenlist ()\ \-\ \c
Fill an alenlist with entries that
describe the buffer controlled by a buf_t object.
6.4
.HP
.BR bzero (9)\ \-\ \c
Clear kernel memory for a specified size.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR canput (9)\ \-\ \c
Test for room in a message queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR canputnext (9)\ \-\ \c
Test for room in a message queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR clrbuf (9)\ \-\ \c
Erase the contents of a buffer described by a buf_t.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR cmn_err (9)\ \-\ \c
Display an error message or panic the system.
SV*, 5.3
.HP
.BR copyb (9)\ \-\ \c
Copy a message block.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR copyin (9)\ \-\ \c
Copy data from user address space.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR copymsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Copy a message.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR copyout (9)\ \-\ \c
Copy data to user address space.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR cpsema (9)\ \-\ \c
Conditionally decrement a
semaphore's state.
5.3
.HP
.BR cvsema (9)\ \-\ \c
Conditionally increment a
semaphore's state.
5.3
.HP
.BR datamsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Test whether a message is a data message.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR delay (9)\ \-\ \c
Delay for a specified number of clock ticks.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR device_admin_info_get ()\ \-\ \c
Retrieve value set with DEVICE_ADMIN statement.
6.4
.HP
.BR device_controller_num_get ()\ \-\ \c
Get controller number from first inventory record in a vertex.
6.4
.HP
.BR device_controller_num_get ()\ \-\ \c
Set controller number field only in
first inventory record in a vertex.
6.4
.HP
.BR device_driver_admin_info_get ()\ \-\ \c
Retrieve value set with DRIVER_ADMIN statement.
6.4
.HP
.BR device_info_get ()\ \-\ \c
Return device info pointer stored in vertex.
6.4
.HP
.BR device_info_set ()\ \-\ \c
Store the address of device
information in a vertex.
6.4
.HP
.BR device_inventory_add ()\ \-\ \c
Add hardware inventory data to a vertex.
6.4
.HP
.BR device_inventory_get_next ()\ \-\ \c
Read out inventory data from a
vertex.
.HP
.BR disable_sysad_parity ()\ \-\ \c
Disable memory parity checking on SysAD bus.
5.3
.HP
.BR dki_dcache_inval (9)\ \-\ \c
Invalidate the data cache for a given range of virtual addresses.
5.3
.HP
.BR dki_dcache_wb (9)\ \-\ \c
Write back the data cache for a given range of virtual addresses.
5.3
.HP
.BR dki_dcache_wbinval (9)\ \-\ \c
Write back and invalidate the data
cache for a given range of virtual addresses.
5.3
.HP
.BR dma_map (9)\ \-\ \c
Load DMA mapping registers for an imminent transfer.
5.3
.HP
.BR dma_mapbp (9)\ \-\ \c
Load DMA mapping registers for an imminent transfer.
5.3
.HP
.BR dma_mapaddr (9)\ \-\ \c
Return the "bus virtual" address for a given map and address.
5.3
.HP
.BR dma_mapalloc (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate a DMA map.
5.3
.HP
.BR dma_mapfree (9)\ \-\ \c
Free a DMA map.
5.3
.HP
.BR drv_getparm (9)\ \-\ \c
Retrieve kernel state information.
SV*, 5.3
.HP
.BR drv_hztousec (9)\ \-\ \c
Convert clock ticks to microseconds.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR drv_priv (9)\ \-\ \c
Test for privileged user.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR drv_setparm (9)\ \-\ \c
Set kernel state information.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR drv_usectohz (9)\ \-\ \c
Convert microseconds to clock ticks.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR drv_usecwait (9)\ \-\ \c
Busy-wait for a specified interval.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR dtimeout (9)\ \-\ \c
Schedule a function execute on a specified processor after a specified
length of time.
5.3
.HP
.BR dupb (9)\ \-\ \c
Duplicate a message block.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR dupmsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Duplicate a message.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR eisa_dma_disable (9)\ \-\ \c
Disable recognition of hardware requests on EISA DMA channel.
5.3
.HP
.BR eisa_dma_enable (9)\ \-\ \c
Enable recognition of hardware
requests on EISA DMA channel.
5.3
.HP
.BR eisa_dma_free_buf (9)\ \-\ \c
Free a previously allocated EISA DMA buffer descriptor.
5.3
.HP
.BR eisa_dma_free_cb (9)\ \-\ \c
Free a previously allocated EISA DMA command block.
5.3
.HP
.BR eisa_dma_get_buf (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate EISA DMA buffer descriptor.
5.3
.HP
.BR eisa_dma_get_cb (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate EISA DMA command block.
5.3
.HP
.BR eisa_dma_prog (9)\ \-\ \c
Program EISA DMA operation for a subsequent software request.
5.3
.HP
.BR eisa_dma_stop (9)\ \-\ \c
Stop software-initiated EISA DMA operation and release channel.
5.3
.HP
.BR eisa_dma_swstart (9)\ \-\ \c
Initiate EISA DMA operation via software request.
5.3
.HP
.BR eisa_dmachan_alloc ()\ \-\ \c
Allocate a DMA channel for EISA
slave DMA.
5.3
.HP
.BR eisa_ivec_alloc ()\ \-\ \c
Allocate an IRQ level for EISA.
5.3
.HP
.BR eisa_ivec_set ()\ \-\ \c
Associate a handler with an EISA
IRQ.
5.3
.HP
.BR enableok (9)\ \-\ \c
Allow a queue to be serviced.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR enable_sysad_parity ()\ \-\ \c
Reenable parity checking on SysAD
bus.
5.3
.HP
.BR esballoc (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate a message block using an externally-supplied buffer.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR esbbcall (9)\ \-\ \c
Call a function when an externally-supplied buffer can be allocated.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR etoimajor (9)\ \-\ \c
Convert external to internal major device number.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR fast_itimeout (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR Same as itimeout () but takes an\ \-\ \c
interval in "fast ticks."
6.2
.HP
.BR fasthzto (9)\ \-\ \c
Returns the value of a struct timeval as
a count of "fast ticks."
6.2
.HP
.BR flushband (9)\ \-\ \c
Flush messages in a specified priority band.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR flushbus (9)\ \-\ \c
Make sure contents of the write buffer are flushed to the system bus.
5.3
.HP
.BR flushq (9)\ \-\ \c
Flush messages on a queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR freeb (9)\ \-\ \c
Free a message block.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR freemsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Free a message.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR freerbuf (9)\ \-\ \c
Free a buf_t with no buffer.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR freesema (9)\ \-\ \c
Free the resources associated with a semaphore.
5.3*
.HP
.BR freezestr (9)\ \-\ \c
Freeze the state of a stream.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR fubyte (9)\ \-\ \c
Load a byte from user space.
5.3
.HP
.BR fuword (9)\ \-\ \c
Load a word from user space.
5.3
.HP
.BR geteblk (9)\ \-\ \c
Get a buf_t with no buffer.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR getemajor (9)\ \-\ \c
Get external major device number.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR geteminor (9)\ \-\ \c
Get external minor device number.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR geterror (9)\ \-\ \c
retrieve error number from a buffer header.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR getmajor (9)\ \-\ \c
Get internal major device number (obsolete).
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR getminor (9)\ \-\ \c
Get internal minor device number (obsolete).
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR getnextpg (9)\ \-\ \c
Return pfdat structure for next page.
5.3
.HP
.BR getq (9)\ \-\ \c
Get the next message from a queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR getrbuf (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate a buf_t with no buffer.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR hwcpin (9)\ \-\ \c
Copy data from device registers to kernel memory.
5.3
.HP
.BR hwcpout (9)\ \-\ \c
Copy data from kernel memory to device registers.
5.3
.HP
.BR hwgraph_block_device_add ()\ \-\ \c
Create block device special file under a specified vertex.
6.4
.HP
.BR hwgraph_char_device_add ()\ \-\ \c
Create a character device special file under a specified vertex.
6.4
.HP
.BR hwgraph_edge_add ()\ \-\ \c
Add a labelled edge between two vertexes.
6.4
.HP
.BR hwgraph_edge_get ()\ \-\ \c
Retrieve the vertex destination of a labelled edge (follow edge).
6.4
.HP
.BR hwgraph_edge_remove ()\ \-\ \c
Delete a labelled edge between two vertexes.
6.4
.HP
.BR hwgraph_info_add_LBL ()\ \-\ \c
Attach a labelled attribute to a vertex.
6.4
.HP
.BR hwgraph_info_export_LBL ()\ \-\ \c
Make an attribute visible to
attr_get(2) .
6.4
.HP
.BR hwgraph_info_get_LBL ()\ \-\ \c
Retrieve an attribute by name.
6.4
.HP
.BR hwgraph_info_remove_LBL ()\ \-\ \c
Remove an attribute from a vertex.
6.4
.HP
.BR hwgraph_info_replace_LBL ()\ \-\ \c
Replace the value of an attribute by name.
6.4
.HP
.BR hwgraph_info_unexport_LBL ()\ \-\ \c
Make an attribute invisible.
6.4
.HP
.BR hwgraph_traverse ()\ \-\ \c
Follow a path of edges starting from
a given vertex.
6.4
.HP
.BR hwgraph_vertex_create ()\ \-\ \c
Create a new, empty vertex, and
return its handle.
6.4
.HP
.BR hwgraph_vertex_destroy ()\ \-\ \c
Deallocate a vertex.
6.4
.HP
.BR hwgraph_vertex_ref ()\ \-\ \c
Increase the reference count of a vertex.
6.4
.HP
.BR hwgraph_vertex_unref ()\ \-\ \c
Decrease the reference count of a vertex.
6.4
.HP
.BR initnsema (9)\ \-\ \c
Initialize a semaphore to a specified count.
5.3
.HP
.BR initnsema_mutex (9)\ \-\ \c
Initialize a semaphore to a count of 1.
5.3
.HP
.BR insq (9)\ \-\ \c
Insert a message into a queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR ip26_enable_ucmem (9)\ \-\ \c
Change memory mode on IP26 processor.
6.2
.HP
.BR ip26_return_ucmem (9)\ \-\ \c
Change memory mode on IP26 processor.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR is_sysad_parity_enabled ()\ \-\ \c
Test for parity checking on SysAD bus.
5.3
.HP
.BR itimeout (9)\ \-\ \c
Schedule a function to be executed
after a specified number of clock ticks.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR itoemajor (9)\ \-\ \c
Convert internal to external major device number.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR kern_calloc (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate and clear space from kernel memory.
5.3
.HP
.BR kern_free (9)\ \-\ \c
Free kernel memory space.
5.3
.HP
.BR kern_malloc (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate kernel virtual memory.
5.3
.HP
.BR kmem_alloc (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate space from kernel free
memory.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR kmem_free (9)\ \-\ \c
Free previously allocated kernel memory.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR kmem_zalloc (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate and clear space from kernel free memory.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR kvaddr_to_alenlist ()\ \-\ \c
Fill an alenlist with entries that
describe a buffer in kernel virtual address space.
6.2
.HP
.BR kvtophys (9)\ \-\ \c
Get physical address of kernel data.
5.3
.HP
.BR linkb (9)\ \-\ \c
Concatenate two message blocks.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR LOCK (9)\ \-\ \c
Acquire a basic lock, waiting if necessary.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR LOCK_ALLOC (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate and initialize a basic lock.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR LOCK_DEALLOC (9)\ \-\ \c
Deallocate an instance of a basic lock.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR LOCK_INIT (9)\ \-\ \c
Initialize a basic lock that was allocated statically, or reinitialize
an allocated lock.
6.2
.HP
.BR LOCK_DESTROY (9)\ \-\ \c
Uninitialize a basic lock that was allocated statically.
6.2
.HP
.BR makedevice (9)\ \-\ \c
Make device number from major and minor numbers.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR max (9)\ \-\ \c
Return the larger of two integers.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR min (9)\ \-\ \c
Return the lesser of two integers.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR msgdsize (9)\ \-\ \c
Return number of bytes of data in a message.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR msgpullup (9)\ \-\ \c
Concatenate bytes in a message.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR MUTEX_ALLOC (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate and initialize a mutex lock.
6.2
.HP
.BR MUTEX_DEALLOC (9)\ \-\ \c
Deinitialize and free a dynamically allocated mutex lock.
6.2
.HP
.BR MUTEX_DESTROY (9)\ \-\ \c
Deinitialize a mutex lock.
6.2
.HP
.BR MUTEX_INIT (9)\ \-\ \c
Initialize an existing mutex lock.
6.2
.HP
.BR MUTEX_LOCK (9)\ \-\ \c
Claim a mutex lock.
6.2
.HP
.BR MUTEX_MINE (9)\ \-\ \c
Test if a mutex lock is owned by this process.
6.2
.HP
.BR MUTEX_OWNED (9)\ \-\ \c
Query if a mutex lock is available.
6.5
.HP
.BR MUTEX_TRYLOCK (9)\ \-\ \c
Conditionally claim a mutex lock.
6.2
.HP
.BR MUTEX_UNLOCK (9)\ \-\ \c
Release a mutex lock.
6.2
.HP
.BR ngeteblk (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate a buf_t and a buffer of
specified size.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR noenable (9)\ \-\ \c
Prevent a queue from being scheduled.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR OTHERQ (9)\ \-\ \c
Get a pointer to queue's partner queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR pciio_dma_dev_get (9)\ \-\ \c
Get device vertex from DMA map.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_dma_slot_get ()\ \-\ \c
Get slot number from DMA map.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_dmaaddr_drain (9)\ \-\ \c
Ensure DMA is complete.
6.5
.HP
.BR pciio_dmalist_drain (9)\ \-\ \c
Ensure DMA is complete.
6.5
.HP
.BR pciio_dmamap_addr ()\ \-\ \c
Set up DMA mapping for an address.
6.3
.HP
.BR pciio_dmamap_alloc ()\ \-\ \c
Allocate DMA map object.
6.3
.HP
.BR pciio_dmamap_done ()\ \-\ \c
Release mapping hardware associated with a map object.
6.3
.HP
.BR pciio_dmamap_drain ()\ \-\ \c
Ensure DMA is complete.
6.5
.HP
.BR pciio_dmamap_free ()\ \-\ \c
Release DMA map object.
6.3
.HP
.BR pciio_dmamap_list ()\ \-\ \c
Set up DMA mapping for a list of addresses.
6.3
.HP
.BR pciio_dmatrans_addr ()\ \-\ \c
Set up DMA mapping using fixed resources if available.
6.3
.HP
.BR pciio_dmatrans_list ()\ \-\ \c
Set up DMA mapping using fixed resources if available.
6.3
.HP
.BR pciio_driver_register ()\ \-\ \c
Register driver to handle specific devices.
6.3
.HP
.BR pciio_driver_unregister ()\ \-\ \c
Unregister driver as device handler.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_error_register ()\ \-\ \c
Register error handler for device.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_info_bus_get ()\ \-\ \c
Query PCI bus number for device.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_info_dev_get ()\ \-\ \c
Query connection vertex for device.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_info_device_id_get ()\ \-\ \c
Query PCI device ID for device.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_info_func_get ()\ \-\ \c
Query interrupt function for device.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_info_get ()\ \-\ \c
Get PCI info object for use in queries.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_info_slot_get ()\ \-\ \c
Query bus slot number for device.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_info_vendor_id_get ()\ \-\ \c
Query PCI vendor ID for device.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_intr_alloc ()\ \-\ \c
Allocate interrupt object.
6.3
.HP
.BR pciio_intr_connect ()\ \-\ \c
Enable interrupt and set handler.
6.3
.HP
.BR pciio_intr_cpu_get ()\ \-\ \c
Query CPU handling interrupt from device.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_intr_dev_get ()\ \-\ \c
Get device vertex from interrupt object.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_intr_disconnect ()\ \-\ \c
Disable interrupt and unregister handler.
6.3
.HP
.BR pciio_intr_free ()\ \-\ \c
Release interrupt object.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_iterate ()\ \-\ \c
Call function for every attached device.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_pio_addr ()\ \-\ \c
Set up PIO mapping using map object.
6.3
.HP
.BR pciio_pio_dev_get ()\ \-\ \c
Get device vertex from PIO map.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_pio_mapsz_get ()\ \-\ \c
Get map size from PIO map object.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_pio_pciaddr_get ()\ \-\ \c
Get target bus address from PIO map object.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_pio_slot_get ()\ \-\ \c
Query bus slot number from PIO map.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_pio_space_get ()\ \-\ \c
Query target bus address space from PIO map.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_piomap_addr ()\ \-\ \c
Set up PIO mapping using map object.
6.3
.HP
.BR pciio_piomap_alloc ()\ \-\ \c
Allocate PIO map object.
6.3
.HP
.BR pciio_piomap_done ()\ \-\ \c
Release mapping hardware associated with a PIO map.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_piomap_free ()\ \-\ \c
Release a PIO map object.
6.3
.HP
.BR pciio_piospace_alloc ()\ \-\ \c
Reserve PCI bus address space for a device.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_piospace_free ()\ \-\ \c
Release PCI bus address space.
6.4
.HP
.BR pciio_piotrans_addr ()\ \-\ \c
Set up PIO mapping using fixed resources if available.
6.3
.HP
.BR pciio_reset ()\ \-\ \c
Activate reset line of PCI card.
6.4
.HP
.BR pcmsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Test whether a message is a priority control message.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR phalloc (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate and initialize a pollhead structure.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR phfree (9)\ \-\ \c
Free a pollhead structure.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR physiock (9)\ \-\ \c
Validate and issue a raw I/O request.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR pio_andb_rmw (9)\ \-\ \c
Byte read-and-write.
5.3
.HP
.BR pio_andh_rmw (9)\ \-\ \c
16-bit read-and-write.
5.3
.HP
.BR pio_andw_rmw (9)\ \-\ \c
32-bit read-and-write.
5.3
.HP
.BR pio_badaddr (9)\ \-\ \c
Check for bus error when reading an address.
5.3
.HP
.BR pio_badaddr_val (9)\ \-\ \c
Check for bus error when reading an address and return the value read.
5.3
.HP
.BR pio_bcopyin (9)\ \-\ \c
Copy data from a bus address to kernel's virtual space.
5.3
.HP
.BR pio_bcopyout (9)\ \-\ \c
Copy data from kernel's virtual space to a bus address.
5.3
.HP
.BR pio_mapaddr (9)\ \-\ \c
Convert a bus address to a virtual address.
5.3
.HP
.BR pio_mapalloc (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate a PIO map.
5.3
.HP
.BR pio_mapfree (9)\ \-\ \c
Free a PIO map.
5.3
.HP
.BR pio_orb_rmw (9)\ \-\ \c
Byte read-or-write.
5.3
.HP
.BR pio_orh_rmw (9)\ \-\ \c
16-bit read-or-write.
5.3
.HP
.BR pio_orw_rmw (9)\ \-\ \c
32-bit read-or-write.
5.3
.HP
.BR pio_wbadaddr (9)\ \-\ \c
Check for bus error when writing to an address.
5.3
.HP
.BR pio_wbadaddr_val (9)\ \-\ \c
Check for bus error when writing a specified value to an address.
5.3
.HP
.BR pollwakeup (9)\ \-\ \c
Inform polling processes that an event has occurred.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR pptophys (9)\ \-\ \c
Convert page pointer to physical address.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR proc_ref (9)\ \-\ \c
Obtain a reference to a process for signaling.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR proc_signal (9)\ \-\ \c
Send a signal to a process.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR proc_unref (9)\ \-\ \c
Release a reference to a process.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR psema (9)\ \-\ \c
Perform a "P" or wait semaphore operation.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR ptob (9)\ \-\ \c
Convert size in pages to size in bytes.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR pullupmsg (9)\ \-\ \c
Concatenate bytes in a message.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR putbq (9)\ \-\ \c
Place a message at the head of a queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR putctl (9)\ \-\ \c
Send a control message to a queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR putctl1 (9)\ \-\ \c
Send a control message with a one-byte parameter to a queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR putnext (9)\ \-\ \c
Send a message to the next queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR putnextctl (9)\ \-\ \c
Send a control message to a queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR putnextctl1 (9)\ \-\ \c
Send a control message with a one-byte parameter to a queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR putq (9)\ \-\ \c
Put a message on a queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR qenable (9)\ \-\ \c
Schedule a queue's service routine to be run.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR qprocsoff (9)\ \-\ \c
Enable put and service routines.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR qprocson (9)\ \-\ \c
Disable put and service routines.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR qreply (9)\ \-\ \c
Send a message in the opposite direction in a stream.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR qsize (9)\ \-\ \c
Find the number of messages on a queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR RD (9)\ \-\ \c
Get a pointer to the read queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR rmvb (9)\ \-\ \c
Remove a message block from a message.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR rmvq (9)\ \-\ \c
Remove a message from a queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR RW_ALLOC (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate and initialize a reader/writer lock.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR RW_DEALLOC (9)\ \-\ \c
Deallocate a reader/writer lock.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR RW_DESTROY (9)\ \-\ \c
Deinitialize an existing reader/writer lock.
6.2
.HP
.BR RW_INIT (9)\ \-\ \c
Initialize an existing reader/writer
lock.
6.2
.HP
.BR RW_RDLOCK (9)\ \-\ \c
Acquire a reader/writer lock as reader, waiting if necessary.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR RW_TRYRDLOCK (9)\ \-\ \c
Try to acquire a reader/writer lock as reader, returning a code if it
is not free.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR RW_TRYWRLOCK (9)\ \-\ \c
Try to acquire a reader/writer lock as writer, returning a code if it
is not free.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR RW_UNLOCK (9)\ \-\ \c
Release a reader/writer lock as reader or writer.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR RW_WRLOCK (9)\ \-\ \c
Acquire a reader/writer lock as writer, waiting if necessary.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR SAMESTR (9)\ \-\ \c
Test if next queue is of the same type.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR scsi_abort ()\ \-\ \c
Transmits a SCSI ABORT command.
5.3*
.HP
.BR scsi_alloc (9)\ \-\ \c
Open a connection between a driver and a target device.
5.3*
.HP
.BR scsi_command (9)\ \-\ \c
Transmit a SCSI command on the bus and return results.
5.3*
.HP
.BR scsi_free (9)\ \-\ \c
Release connection to target device.
5.3*
.HP
.BR scsi_info (9)\ \-\ \c
Issue the SCSI Inquiry command and return the results.
5.3*
.HP
.BR scsi_reset ()\ \-\ \c
Resets the SCSI adapter or bus.
5.3*
.HP
.BR setgiovector ()\ \-\ \c
Register a GIO interrupt handler.
5.3
.HP
.BR setgioconfig ()\ \-\ \c
Prepare a GIO slot for use.
5.3
.HP
.BR sgset (9)\ \-\ \c
Assign physical addresses to a vector of software scatter-gather
registers.
5.3
.HP
.BR sleep (9)\ \-\ \c
Suspend process execution pending occurrence of an event.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR SLEEP_ALLOC (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate and initialize a sleep lock.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR SLEEP_DEALLOC (9)\ \-\ \c
Deinitialize and deallocate a dynamically allocated sleep lock.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR SLEEP_DESTROY (9)\ \-\ \c
Deinitialize a sleep lock.
6.2
.HP
.BR SLEEP_INIT (9)\ \-\ \c
Initialize an existing sleep lock.
6.2
.HP
.BR SLEEP_LOCK (9)\ \-\ \c
Acquire a sleep lock, waiting if necessary until the lock is free.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR SLEEP_LOCKAVAIL (9)\ \-\ \c
Query whether a sleep lock is
available.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR SLEEP_LOCK_SIG (9)\ \-\ \c
Acquire a sleep lock, waiting if necessary until the lock is free or a
signal is received.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR SLEEP_TRYLOCK (9)\ \-\ \c
Try to acquire a sleep lock, returning a code if it is not free.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR SLEEP_UNLOCK (9)\ \-\ \c
Release a sleep lock.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR splbase (9)\ \-\ \c
Block no interrupts.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR spltimeout (9)\ \-\ \c
Block only timeout interrupts.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR spldisk (9)\ \-\ \c
Block disk interrupts.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR splstr (9)\ \-\ \c
Block STREAMS interrupts.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR spltty (9)\ \-\ \c
Block disk, VME, serial interrupts.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR splhi (9)\ \-\ \c
Block all I/O interrupts.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR spl0 (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR Same as splbase ().\ \-\ \c
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR splx (9)\ \-\ \c
Restore previous interrupt level.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR strcat (9)\ \-\ \c
Append one string to another.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR strcpy (9)\ \-\ \c
Copy a string.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR streams_interrupt (9)\ \-\ \c
Synchronize interrupt-level function with STREAMS mechanism.
5.3
.HP
.BR STREAMS_TIMEOUT (9)\ \-\ \c
Synchronize timeout with STREAMS mechanism.
5.3
.HP
.BR strlen (9)\ \-\ \c
Return length of a string.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR strlog (9)\ \-\ \c
Submit messages to the log driver.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR strncmp (9)\ \-\ \c
Compare two strings for a specified length.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR strncpy (9)\ \-\ \c
Copy a string for a specified length.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR strqget (9)\ \-\ \c
Get information about a queue or band of the queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR strqset (9)\ \-\ \c
Change information about a queue or band of the queue.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR subyte (9)\ \-\ \c
Store a byte to user space.
5.3
.HP
.BR suword (9)\ \-\ \c
Store a word to user space.
5.3
.HP
.BR SV_ALLOC (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate and initialize a
synchronization variable.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR SV_BROADCAST (9)\ \-\ \c
Wake all processes sleeping on a synchronization variable.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR SV_DEALLOC (9)\ \-\ \c
Deinitialize and deallocate a synchronization variable.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR SV_DESTROY (9)\ \-\ \c
Deinitialize a synchronization
variable.
6.2
.HP
.BR SV_INIT (9)\ \-\ \c
Initialize an existing synchronization variable.
6.2
.HP
.BR SV_SIGNAL (9)\ \-\ \c
Wake one process sleeping on a synchronization variable.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR SV_WAIT (9)\ \-\ \c
Sleep until a synchronization
variable is signalled.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG (9)\ \-\ \c
Sleep until a synchronization
variable is signalled or a signal is received.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR timeout (9)\ \-\ \c
Schedule a function to be executed
after a specified number of clock ticks.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR TRYLOCK (9)\ \-\ \c
Try to acquire a basic lock, returning a code if the lock is not
currently free.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR uiomove (9)\ \-\ \c
Copy data using uio_t.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR uiophysio (9)\ \-\ \c
Validate a raw I/O request and pass
to a strategy function.
5.3
.HP
.BR unbufcall (9)\ \-\ \c
Cancel a pending bufcall request.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR undma (9)\ \-\ \c
Unlock physical memory in user
space.
5.3
.HP
.BR unfreezestr (9)\ \-\ \c
Unfreeze the state of a stream.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR unlinkb (9)\ \-\ \c
Remove a message block from the
head of a message.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR UNLOCK (9)\ \-\ \c
Release a basic lock.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR untimeout (9)\ \-\ \c
Cancel a previous itimeout or fast_itimeout request.
SV*, 5.3*
.HP
.BR ureadc (9)\ \-\ \c
Copy a character to space described by uio_t.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR userdma (9)\ \-\ \c
Lock physical memory in user space.
5.3
.HP
.BR userabi ()\ \-\ \c
Get data sizes for the ABI of the user process (32- or 64-bit).
6.2
.HP
.BR uvaddr_to_alenlist ()\ \-\ \c
Fill an alenlists with entries that describe a buffer in a user
virtual address space.
6.4
.HP
.BR uwritec (9)\ \-\ \c
Return a character from space
described by uio_t.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR v_getaddr (9)\ \-\ \c
Get the user virtual address
associated with a vhandl_t.
5.3
.HP
.BR v_gethandle (9)\ \-\ \c
Get a unique identifier associated
with a vhandl_t.
5.3
.HP
.BR v_getlen (9)\ \-\ \c
Get the length of user address space associated with a vhandl_t.
5.3
.HP
.BR v_mapphys (9)\ \-\ \c
Map kernel address space into user address space.
5.3
.HP
.BR valusema (9)\ \-\ \c
Return the value associated with a semaphore.
5.3
.HP
.BR vme_adapter (9)\ \-\ \c
Determine VME adapter that corresponds to a given memory address.
5.3
.HP
.BR vme_ivec_alloc (9)\ \-\ \c
Allocate a VME bus interrupt vector.
5.3
.HP
.BR vme_ivec_free (9)\ \-\ \c
Free a VME bus interrupt vector.
5.3
.HP
.BR vme_ivec_set (9)\ \-\ \c
Register a VME bus interrupt vector.
5.3
.HP
.BR vsema (9)\ \-\ \c
Perform a "V" or signal semaphore operation.
5.3
.HP
.BR wakeup (9)\ \-\ \c
Waken a process waiting for an
event.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR wbadaddr (9)\ \-\ \c
Test physical address for output.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR wbadaddr_val (9)\ \-\ \c
Test physical address for output of specific value.
SV, 5.3
.HP
.BR WR (9)\ \-\ \c
Get a pointer to the write queue.
SV, 5.3
.PD 0



.PP
The following
.I SVR 4
kernel functions are not implemented in
.IR IRIX \(rg:
.HP
.BR bioreset (9)\ \-\ \c
.PD 0
.HP
.BR dma_disable (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR dma_enable (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR dma_free_buf (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR dma_free_cb (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR dma_get_best_mode (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR dma_get_buf (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR dma_get_cb (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR dma_pageio (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR dma_prog (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR dma_swstart (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR dma_swsetup (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR drv_gethardware (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR hat_getkpfnum (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR hat_getppfnum (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR inb (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR inl (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR inw (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR kvtoppid (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR mod_drvattach (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR mod_drvdetach (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR outb (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR outl (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR outw (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR physmap (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR physmap_free (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR phystoppid (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR psignal (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR rdma_filter (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR repinsb (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR repinsd (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR repinsw (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR repoutsb (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR repoutsd (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR repoutsw (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR rminit (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR rmsetwant (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR SLEEP_LOCKOWNED (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR strncat (9)\ \-\ \c
.HP
.BR vtop (9)\ \-\ \c
.PD
.\"
.\"
.\".SH RETURN
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH ERRORS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
These functions can be executed from various contexts as described in each separate manual page.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
Most of these functions are MP-safe; however, see each separate manual page.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
These are
.IR IRIX \(rg-specific
functions:
.B _IRIX_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose these symbols.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_IRIX
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_IRIX_MODULE
defined.
When compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_IRIX
defined,
.IR IRIX \(rg
compatibility will become part of the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.I streams
kernel module.
When compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_IRIX_MODULE
defined,
.IR IRIX \(rg
compatibility will be placed in a separate
.I streams-aixcompat
kernel module that will demand load when any
.I STREAMS
driver or module that uses the
.IR IRIX \(rg-specific
functions loads.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
Core functions are implemented within the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
framework.
.IR IRIX \(rg-specific
functions are implemented as described in the separate manual pages describing each facility.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IOCTLS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.\".SH SYSCTLS
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
Core functions:
.PP
Compatibility functions:
.PP
Transport functions:
.PP
General:
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.IR IRIX \(rg
compatibility suite has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
These functions are compatible with
.IR IRIX \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
These are
.IR IRIX \(rg-specific
functions and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The more common
.I SVR 4.2 MP
functions should be used in their stead.
.IP \(em
These functions
are provided for source level compatibility with
.IR IRIX \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR IRIX \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR IRIX \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
These functions
only provide functionality comparable to
.IR IRIX \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
these functions
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR IRIX \(rg
DDI documentation.
.[
irixdoc
.]
.[
irixspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Most of these functions
first appeared in
.IR IRIX \(rg.
Functions with name starting with
.I mi_
are probably
.I Mentat, Inc.
functions that goes all the way back to the
.RI pre- OSF/1
.I Mentat
implementation.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
