'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: itoemajor.9.man,v 0.9.2.6 2005/03/30 13:38:47 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:38:47 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH ITOEMAJOR 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B itoemajor
\- convert an internal major device number to an external major device number
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _UW7_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "int itoemajor(major_t " imajor ", int " prevmajor );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I imajor
The internal major device number to convert to an external major device
number.
.TP
.I prevmajor
The previous external major device number obtained by calling
.BR itoemajor (),
or
.B NODEV
if
.BR itoemajor ()
is being called to obtain the first external major device number.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
returns an external major device number associated with the internal major
device number,
.IR imajor .
When
.I prevmajor
is set to
.BR NODEV ,
.BR itoemajor ()
returns the first major device number associated with the internal major
device number,
.IR imajor .
When
.I prevmajor
is set to the external major device number returned from a previous invocation
of
.BR itoemajor (),
the call returns the next external major device number associated with the
internal major device number, or
.BR NODEV ,
if no subsequent external major device number is associated.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
is intended to be called iteratively, passing the previously returned external
major device number as the
.I prevmajor
argument of each subsequent call until
.B NODEV
is returned.  In this way, all of the external major device numbers associated
with a particular internal major device number can be obtained.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR itoemajor ()
succeeds, it returns 
the first or next external major device number associated with the internal
major device number
.IR imajor ;
when it fails, it returns
.BR NODEV .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
fails when there is no subsequent external major device number associated with
.IR imajor ,
or when the supplied internal major device number,
.IR imajor ,
is invalid.
An invalid internal major device number is an internal major device number
that has no external major device number associated with it.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
can be called from any context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
is a
.IR UnixWare \(rg-specific
function:
.B _UW7_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_UW7
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MAJOR (9),
.BR MINOR (9),
.BR MKDEV (9),
.BR major (9),
.BR minor (9),
.BR makedev (9),
.BR emajor (9),
.BR eminor (9),
.BR makedevice (9),
.BR getmajor (9),
.BR getminor (9),
.BR getemajor (9),
.BR geteminor (9),
.BR etoimajor (9),
.BR itoemajor (9),
.BR ddi_driver_major (9),
.BR ddi_getiminor (9),
.BR ddi_create_minor_node (9),
.BR ddi_remove_minor_node (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
is compatible with
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR itoemajor ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR UnixWare \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR UnixWare \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR UnixWare \(rg
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR itoemajor ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR UnixWare \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR itoemajor ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR UnixWare \(rg.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.[
uw7spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR itoemajor ()
first appeared in
.IR UnixWare \(rg.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
