'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: kmem_zalloc.9.man,v 0.9.2.18 2005/05/14 08:34:24 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/14 08:34:24 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH KMEM_ZALLOC 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B kmem_zalloc
\- allocate and zero kernel memory
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/kmem.h>
.HP
.BI "void *kmem_zalloc(size_t " size ", int " flag );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I size
the size of the contiguous region of kernel memory to allocate.
.TP
.I flag
whether to sleep or not.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Requests that the number of bytes of kernel memory specified by the argument
.I size
be allocated with the options specified by
.IR flag ,
zeroed, and returned as a
.B void *
to the allocated memory.
.I flag
can be one of the following values:
.TP \w'\ KM_CACHEALIGN\ 'u
.B KM_SLEEP
can wait and reschedule, success guaranteed.
.PD 0
.TP
.B KM_NOSLEEP
cannot wait or reschedule, may fail and return
.BR NULL .
.TP
.B KM_PHYSCONTIG
allocate contiguous physical memory
.TP
.B KM_CACHEALIGN
allocate the requested memory starting at a cache line boundary and padded out to a full cache line
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR kmem_zalloc ()
returns a pointer to the allocated initialized memory on success.  On failure,
.BR kmem_zalloc ()
returns a
.B NULL
pointer.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR kmem_zalloc ()
fails to allocate the requested memory, it returns a
.B NULL
pointer.
.BR kmem_zalloc ()
should only fail and return
.B NULL
if
.I flag
was set to
.BR KM_NOSLEEP .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR kmem_zalloc ()
can be called from any context with flag
.BR KM_NOSLEEP .
.BR kmem_zalloc ()
can only be called from user context with flag
.BR KM_SLEEP .
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR kmem_zalloc ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
See
.BR kmem_alloc (9)
for additional considerations and notifications.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR kmem_zalloc ()
is implemented as a function that calls
.BR kmem_alloc (9)
and then simply initialized the memory.
For security purposes, the memory region initialized is the entire memory extent returned by
.BR kmem_alloc (9)
and not just the requested size.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR kmem_alloc (9),
.BR kmem_free (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR kmem_zalloc ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR kmem_alloc ()
is source-level compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4dk
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR MacOT \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
do not document this function.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.[
osfdoc
.]
.[
macdoc
.]
.[
suxdoc
.]
.[
uxpdoc
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
indicates that the
.B MALLOC
macro should be called instead.
.[
osfdoc
.]
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR LiS
document this function.
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.[
irixdoc
.]
.[
osfdoc
.]
.[
soldoc
.]
.[
uw7doc
.]
.[
lis
.]
.IP \(em
.IR HP-UX \(rg
tries to allocate 32 bytes if the
.I size
argument is set to 0.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not pass a size of zero (0) in the
.I size
argument to
.BR kmem_alloc ().
.IP \(em
.IR IRIX \(rg
adds the
.B KM_PHYSCONTIG
and
.B KM_CACHEALIGN
flags.  No other implementation mentions these.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will only use the flags
.BR KM_SLEEP " and " KM_NOSLEEP
when calling
.BR kmem_zalloc ().
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
document that
.BR kmem_zalloc ()
returns
.B NULL
when
.I size
is zero.
.[
soldoc
.]
.[
irixdoc
.]
.[
uw7doc
.]
.IP \(em
Under
.IR LiS ,
.BR kmem_zalloc ()
ignores the
.I flag
argument and allocates memory using
.BR lis_zmalloc ()
which always calls
.BR kmalloc (9)
with a general fault protection class of
.BR GFP_ATOMIC .
This means that
.BR kmem_zmalloc ()
can fail and return
.B NULL
even if
.I flag
is set to
.BR KM_SLEEP .
Also, this means that when
.I flag
is set to
.BR KM_SLEEP ,
the calling process will neither wait nor reschedule.
These are
.I LiS
bugs.
.\".IP \(em
Under
.IR LiS ,
.BR kmem_zalloc ()
returns a pointer to zero-sized allocated memory when
.I size
is zero.
This is incorrect behaviour and is an
.I LiS
bug.
.\".IP \(em
.I LiS
destroys memory alignment by inserting hidden memory allocation management pointers at the
beginningo of the
.BR kmalloc (9)'ed
extent.
.\".IP \(em
.BR kmem_zalloc ()
is implemented as a function call.
.I LiS
implements
.BR kmem_zalloc ()
as a macro.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
does not perpetuate these
.I LiS
bugs.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR kmem_zalloc ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
