'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: linkblk.9.man,v 0.9.2.5 2006/04/05 09:44:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: linkblk.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:44:13  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH LINKBLK 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B linkblk
\- \fISTREAMS\fP link block structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1
.B #include <sys/stream.h>

struct linkblk {
    struct queue *l_qtop;       /* upper write queue */
    struct queue *l_qbot;       /* lower write queue */
    int l_index;                /* multiplexor index */
    char __pad[4 * sizeof(int) + sizeof(size_t) + sizeof(mblk_t *)];
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The
.B linkblk
structure contains the following members:
.\" ----------------------
.TP \w'ioc_count\(em'u
.I l_qtop
points to the write queue of the Stream on the upper multiplex.
.PD 0
.\" ----------------------
.TP
.I l_qbot
points to the write queue of the Stream on the lower multiplex.
.\" ----------------------
.TP
.I l_index
An index uniqely identifying the link within an entire
.B GNU/Linux
system on a host.
.\" ----------------------
.TP
.I __pad
padding to size the structure to the size from
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.\" ----------------------
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B linkblk
structure is used in the data portion of an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message containing an
.BR I_LINK (7),
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
or
.BR I_PUNLINK (7),
.BR streamio (7)
command.
These
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message are sent to a multiplexing driver by the Stream head to allow a multiplexing driver to
perform the necessary initialization, configuration, resource allocation or release, associated with
linking one Stream beneath another via the multiplexing driver.
.PP
The members of the
.B linkblk
structure are interpreted as follows:
.TP \w'l_index\(em'u
.I l_qtop
is a pointer to the write queue of the Stream end queue pair at the upper multiplex.  This
identifies the queue pair at the multiplexing driver, on the upper multiplex, that terminates the
control Stream.
.TP
.I l_qbot
is a pointer to the write queue of the Stream head queue pair at the lower mutliplex  This
identifies the queue pair at the mutliplexing driver, on the lower mutliplex, that terminates the
linked Stream.
.TP
.I l_index
is a unique index that identifies the link relation within the entire
.B GNU/Linux
system for a host.
.PP
When
.I STREAMS
receives a valid
.BR I_LINK (7)
or
.BR I_PLINK (7)
.BR streamio (7)
call from the user, it allocates an populates a
.B linkblk
structure.
.I STREAMS
finds the queue pair at the Stream end (diametrically opposite the Stream head on the Stream for
which the
.BR streamio (7)
was issued) and places a pointer to the write queue of the pair in
.IR l_qtop .
Note that, although `top' appears in the name of this member, the write queue is at the bottom of
the Stream attached to the upper multiplex.
.PP
.I STREAMS
locates the Stream head queue pointer associated with the Stream that was passed as a file
descriptor in the
.I arg
argument to the
.BR ioctl (2s)
call issuing the
.BR I_LINK (7)
or
.BR I_PLINK (7)
command:
a pointer to the write queue of the pair is placed in
.IR l_qbot .
Note that, although `bot' appears in the name of this member, the write queue is at the top of the
Stream to be linked to the lower multiplex.
.PP
A unique index number used to identify the link relation is assigned and placed into
.IR l_index .
(See also
.RI \(lq COMPATIBILITY ,\(rq
below.)
.PP
.I STREAMS
then formulates an
.B M_IOCTL (9)
message, attaches the
.B linkblk
structure in an
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block and sends the control downstream like any other
.BR I_STR (7)-based
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message.  See
.BR M_IOCTL "(9), " M_IOCACK "(9), " M_IOCNAK "(9),
for more information on processing of input-output controls under
.IR STREAMS .
.PP
When
.I STREAMS
receives a valid
.BR I_UNLINK (7)
or
.BR I_PUNLINK (7)
call from the user, it allocates and populates a
.B linblk
structure to be attached to a
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message in a similar manner to that described above.
The difference is that the
.I l_index
and
.I l_qbot
members are populated from the link block located using the
.I arg
argument to the
.BR ioctl (2s)
call issuing the
.BR I_LINK (7)
or
.BR I_PLINK (7)
command.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should only use the
.B linkblk
structure definition for accessing the data block of a
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message perforing an
.BR I_LINK (7),
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
or
.BR I_PUNLINK (7),
operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
Direct access of the
.B linkblk
structure should only be made to the data part of an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message containing a
.BR I_LINK (7),
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
or
.BR I_PUNLINK (7),
command,
as part of an input-output control operation to which a multiplexing driver is responding in the
context of a
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure for the driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
When delivered in the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message, the receiver of the message has exclusive access to the message and the contained
.B linkblk
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
When the data structure is present in the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message, it should be considered as read-only.  That is, it is not proper returning altered values
in an
.BR M_IOCACK (9)
message with a non-zero
.I ioc_count
member in the
.BR iocblk (9)
control structure.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR M_IOCTL (9),
.BR I_LINK (7),
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
.BR I_PUNLINK (7),
.BR streamio (7),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR I_STR (7),
.BR M_IOCACK (9),
.BR M_IOCNAK (9),
.BR iocblk (9),
.IR qi_putp (9),
.IR qi_srvp (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B linkblk
structure is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP EFT" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.B linkblk
structure is very consistent over the wide range of availble implementations and, because of the
restricted context in which it is used, there are no considerable portability issues.
.IP \(em
Because the data elements involved have different representations on different architectures (e.g.,
pointers), binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 EFT STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B linkblk
structure was first introduced in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
