'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: LOCK_ALLOC.9.man,v 0.9.2.5 2004/04/21 17:51:09 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/04/21 17:51:09 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH LOCK_ALLOC 9 "$Date: 2004/04/21 17:51:09 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS SVR4 DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B LOCK_ALLOC
\- allocate and initialize a basic lock
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SVR4_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/kmem.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ksynch.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
.BI "lock_t LOCK_ALLOC(unsigned char " hierarchy ", pl_t " min_pl ", lkinfo_t *" lkinfop ", int " flag );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I hierarchy
Hierarchy value which asserts the order in which this lock will be acquired
relative to other basic and read/write locks.
.TP
.I min_pl
Minimum priority level argument that asserts the level that will be passed in
with any attempt to acquired the lock.  See
.BR LOCK (9).
.TP
.I lkinfop
A pointer to a
.B lkinfo
structure.  The
.I lk_name
member of the
.B lkinfo
structure points to a character string name that will be used to collect
statistics.
.TP
.I flag
A memory allocation flag for
.BR kmem_alloc (9).
The flag can be one of the following values:
.RS
.TP \w'KM_NOSLEEP\(em'u
.B KM_SLEEP
The caller can sleep awaiting the allocation.
.PD 0
.TP
.B KM_NOSLEEP
The caller cannot sleep awaiting the allocation.
.PD
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR LOCK_ALLOC (9),
.BR LOCK_DEALLOC (9),
.BR LOCK (9),
.BR LOCK_OWNED (9),
.BR TRYLOCK (9)
and
.BR UNLOCK (9)
are a set of primitive functions for allocating, deallocating, locking,
testing, attempting to lock and unlocking a basic lock of type
.BR lock_t .
.PP
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
dynamically allocates and initializes a basic lock structure of type
.B lock_t
and returns a pointer to the structure.  When
.B KM_SLEEP
is set in the
.I flag
argument, the call will always be successful.  When
.B KM_NOSLEEP
is set in the
.I flag
argument, the call will fail if resources for the allocation are not
immediately available, and
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
will return
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH USAVE
.PP
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
is used to dynamically allocate a basic lock.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
succeeds, it returns a pointer to the allocated an initialized
.B lock_t
structure; when it fails, it returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
fails when 
.I flag
is set to
.B KM_NOSLEEP
and sufficient resources for the allocation are not immediately available.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
can only be called from user or blockable context only when
.B KM_SLEEP
is set in
.IR flag .
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
can be called from any context when
.B KM_NOSLEEP
is set in
.IR flag .
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
does not perform any of the naming or statistics gathering functions described
in
.I SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI
.[
usldk
.]
documentation.  The
.IR lkinfop ", " hierarchy " and " min_pl
arguments are ignored.  Only the
.I flag
argument is honoured.
.PP
Basic locks of type
.B lock_t
are not recursive.  Calling
.BR LOCK (9)
for a basic lock that has been acquired by the calling processor with
.BR LOCK (9)
or
.BR TRYLOCK (9)
will result in single party deadlock.
.PP
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
is a
.IR "SVR 4.2" -specific
function:
.B _SVR4_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR4
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
is implemented by allocating a
.B lock_t
structure using
.BR kmem_alloc (9)
and initialized with
.BR spinlock_init (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR LOCK (9),
.\".BR LOCK_ALLOC (9),
.BR LOCK_DEALLOC (9),
.BR LOCK_OWNED (9),
.BR TRYLOCK (9),
.BR UNLOCK (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
ignores the
.I heirarchy
argument.  The underlying
.B Linux
spin locks are incapable of tracking lock hierarchies.
.IP \(em
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
ignores the
.I min_pl
argument.
.B Linux
does not implement interrupt priority levels in the same fashion as
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" :
either interrupts are enabled or they are not.
.IP \(em
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
does not perform any of the naming or statistics gathering functions described
in the
.I SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI
.[
usldk
.]
documentation.
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
ignores the
.I lkinfop
argument.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
doe snot support basic, sleep, synchronization or read/write lock statistics
or debugging in the manner of
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" .
.IP \(em
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for the purpose of porting
.IR "SVR 4.2"
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR "SVR 4.2"
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.[
uslspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR LOCK_ALLOC ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
