'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_CLOSE_REPL.9.man,v 0.9.2.2 2008-04-28 12:53:45 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:45 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: M_CLOSE_REPL.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.2  2008-04-28 12:53:45  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.1  2007/03/28 13:36:33  brian
.\" - added manpages
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M_CLOSE_REPL 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_CLOSE
\- \fISTREAMS\fP close reply message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains structured data.
.PP
An
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
message is a high priority message that consists of a single
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
implementation extension.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
message is generated by a driver or module in response to an
.BR M_CLOSE (9)
message that was generated by the Stream head when the
.BR close (2s)
system call was invoked and the driver was marked with the
.B C_ALLCLOSE
flag under
.IR HPUX \(rg.
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.PP
The
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
message cannot be generated (directly) by a user level process.
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
messages arriving at the
Stream head
are consumed.
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
messages are generated by the driver or intervening module.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Guidelines for processing the
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
message are as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Intermediate modules that do not recognize an
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
message must pass the message along in the same manner as an ordinary high priority message.  That
is, they are not subject to flow control and should be processed without queuing.  Modules should
pass the
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
message along directly from a
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure and should not queue the message.
.IP \(bu
Modules and drivers should only pass this message upstream  Intermediate modules may record the
fact that a
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
message has transitted the module; however, the
module must pass the
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
message along upstream.
.IP \(bu
An
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
message arriving at the write-side queue of a module should be passed along as an unrecognized
message type.
This permits
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
message to be passed along a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4).
.IP \(bu
An
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
message arriving at the read-side queue of the lower side of a multiplexing driver should be
discarded (ignored and freed).
.IP \(bu
An
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
message is issued by a driver only in response to an
.BR M_CLOSE (9)
message, when the driver supports the corresponding feature.  Otherwise, the message should not be
generated.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
message is documented only by
.IR HPUX \(rg.
.[
hpuxspg
.]
It is provided to assist porting of drivers and modules written for
.IR HPUX \(rg
to
.BR GNU/Linux .
It might be necessary to define
.B _HPUX_SOURCE
before including
.RB < sys/stream.h >
to expose this symbol.  Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9),
.BR hpuxcompat (9),
.BR M_CLOSE (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR HPUX \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only
.IR HPUX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
documents the
.BR M_CLOSE "(9) and " M_CLOSE_REPL (9)
data block types.
These data block types are provided for source compatibility with drivers
written for
.IR HPUX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
It might be necessary to define
.B _HPUX_SOURCE
before including
.B sys/stream.h
to expose these symbols.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not use the
.BR M_CLOSE "(9) or " M_CLOSE_REPL (9)
data block types.
.IP \(em
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
is an
.IR HPUX \(rg
specific message, provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
for source compatibility with
.IR HPUX \(rg.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
does not provide the capability for which this message was intended: when the
last close of a Stream occurs and the last reference is released (i.e.
fdetached and unlinked from a multiplexing driver), the Stream is always
dismantled.  The
.BR M_CLOSE (9)
message is never generated by the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
Stream head and, therefore, no
.BR M_CLOSE_REPL
message is expected in reply.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not use this message.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR hpuxcompat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR HPUX \(rg
documentation.
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_CLOSE_REPL
message first appeared in
.IR HPUX \(rg.
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
