'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_COPYOUT.9.man,v 0.9.2.14 2008-04-28 12:53:45 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:45 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: M_COPYOUT.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.14  2008-04-28 12:53:45  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.13  2006/04/05 09:44:02  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M_COPYOUT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_COPYOUT
\- \fISTREAMS\fP copyout message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_COPYOUT
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains unstructured data.
.PP
An
.B M_COPYOUT
message is a high priority message that consists of one
.B M_COPYOUT
message block followed by one or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_COPYOUT
is a high priority message
generated by a driver or module and sent upstream to request that the
Stream head
perform a
.BR copyout (9)
on behalf of the driver or module.  It is valid only after receiving an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message and before an
.BR M_IOCACK (9)
or
.BR M_IOCNAK (9),
for a given ioctl operation identifier,
.I ioc_id .
.PP
.B M_COPYOUT
is a high priority message that is not subject to flow control within a
Stream.
The format of the message is one
.B M_COPYOUT
message block followed by one or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks.  The
.B M_COPYOUT
message block contains a
.BR copyreq (9)
structure, defined in
.BR <sys/stream.h> :
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct copyreq {
    int cq_cmd;         /* ioctl command (from ioc_cmd) */
    cred_t *cq_cr;      /* full credentials */
    uint cq_id;         /* ioctl id (from ioc_id) */
    caddr_t cq_addr;    /* address top copy data to/from */
    uint cq_size;       /* number of bytes to copy */
    int cq_flag;        /* SVR 3.2 compatibility */
    mblk_t *cq_private; /* private state information */
    long cq_filer[4];   /* reserved for future use */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The first three members of the structure correspond to those of the
.BR iocblk (9)
structure in the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message block which allows the same message block to be reused for both structures.  The
Stream head
will guarantee that the message block allocated for the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message is large enough to contain a
.BR copyreq (9)
structure.  The
.I cq_addr
field contains the user space address to which the data are to be copied.  The
.I cq_size
field is the number of bytes to copy to user space.
.PP
The
.I cq_private
field can be used by a module to point to a message block containing the module's state information
relating to this
.BR ioctl (2s).
The
Stream head
will copy (without processing) the contents of this field to the
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
reponse message so that the module can resume the associated state.  If an
.BR M_COPYIN (9)
or
.BR M_COPYOUT (9)
message is freed,
.I STREAMS
will not free any message block pointed to by
.IR cq_private .
This is the module's responsibility.
.PP
Data to be copied to user space is contained in the linked
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks.
.PP
The driver or module responding to a
.I tranparent
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message issues a
.B M_COPYOUT
message when it wishes to copy data out to the user.  The message is formulated and issued
upstream to the
Stream head.
When reveived by the
Stream head,
the
Stream head
will attempt to copy out the requested amount of data of size
.IR cq_size ,
to the user address
.IR cq_addr ,
using the
.BR copyout (9)
utility.
.PP
If the
.BR copyout (9)
operation succeeds, the
Stream head
will reply with an
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
message block whose
.I cp_rval
member is set to
.BR "(caddr_t)(0)" ,
indicating that the operation was successful.
.PP
If the
.BR copyout (9)
operation fails, the
Stream head
will reply with an
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
message block whose
.I cp_rval
member is set to
.BR "(caddr_t)(1)" ,
to indicate the error, and then aborts the
.BR ioctl (2s)
operation and returns
.RB [ EFAULT ]
to the user in
.IR errno (3).
This provides the driver or module with the opportunity to clean up the
.I cq_private
pointer when the
.BR ioctl (2s)
operation is aborted.
.PP
See
.BR M_IOCDATA (9),
for more information.
.\"
.B M_COPYOUT
messages cannot be directly generated by a user level process.
.B M_COPYOUT
messages arriving at a non-multiplexing driver should be discarded (ignored and freed).
.B M_COPYOUT
messages can be generated by a driver or module responding to an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.PP
The following guidelines represent best practise for processing of the
.B M_COPYOUT
message by drivers and modules:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Intermediate modules that do not intend to process this message will not queue the
.B M_COPYOUT
message upstream.
In any event, an intermediate module must not flush or discard an
.B M_COPYOUT
message.
.IP ""
As only one
.BR ioctl (2s)
operation, and therefore, one
.B M_COPYOUT
message can be in progress on a Stream, queueing of the message would cause unnecessary delay in
processing a
.I transparent
.BR ioctl (2s).
Only one high priority message can be outstanding at the
Stream head,
so ordering of this message with respect to other high priority messages is not an issue.
.IP \(bu
Modules or drivers should only issue a
.B M_COPYOUT
message as part of a
.I transparent
.BR ioctl (2s)
operation.
.IP \(bu
The message should be created by transforming a received
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
or
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
message.
.IP \(bu
The driver or module issuing this message should attach all state information pertaining to the
.BR ioctl (2s)
operation using the
.I cq_private
pointer in the
.BR M_COPYOUT
message block.
.IP ""
Issuing drivers or modules will consider in their design that a misbehaving module might flush or
discard the message.
.IP \(bu
The driver or module design can expect that an
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
reply to a
.B M_COPYOUT
message will arrive reliably.  The queue pair's
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedure will not be invoked until after the
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
message has been delivered to the module's
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The following procedure fragment provides an example of handling of
.B M_COPYOUT
messages on the read-side of an intermediate module.  Note that at
.IR "line 16" ,
.B M_COPYOUT
(and
.BR M_COPYIN (9))
messages are passed upstream without queuing.
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
   1  int
   2  xxx_rput(queue_t *q, mblk_t *mp)
   3  {
   4      int type;
   5  
   6      if ((type = mp->b_datap->db_type) >= QPCTL) {
   7          switch (type) {
   8          case M_PCPROTO:
   9              do_message_processing(q, mp);
  10              break;
  11              /* ... */
  12          case M_FLUSH:
  13              /* perform canonical flushing */
  14              /* ... */
  15              /* fall through */
  16          default:                /* e.g. M_COPYOUT */
  17              /* unhandled high-priority message */
  18              putnext(q, mp);
  19              break;
  20          }
  21      } else if (!q->q_first && !q->q_flag & QSVCBUSY
  22                 && bcanputnext(q, mp->b_band)) {
  23          switch (type) {
  24          case M_PROTO:
  25          case M_DATA:
  26              do_message_rpocessing(q, mp);
  27              break;
  28              /* ... */
  29          default:
  30              /* unhandled normal priority message */
  31              putnext(q, mp);
  32              break;
  33          }
  34      } else {
  35          putq(q, mp);
  36      }
  37      return (0);
  38  }
\s+1\fP
.fi
.PP
The following code fragment provides an example of proper issuance of an
.B M_COPYOUT
message and handling of the response from a driver:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
   1  void
   2  do_ioctl(queue_t *q, mblk_t *mp)
   3  {
   4      struct iocblk *ioc;
   5      struct copyreq *cq;
   6      struct copyresp *cp;
   7  
   8      switch (mp->b_datap->db_type) {
   9      case M_IOCTL:
  10          ioc = (typeof(ioc)) mp->b_rptr;
  11          switch (ioc->ioc_cmd) {
  12          case KNOWN_IOCTL:
  13              if (ioc->ioc_count == TRANSPARENT) {
  14                  cq = (typeof(cq)) mp->b_rptr;
  15                  cq->cq_addr =
  16                      *(typeof(cq->cq_addr) *)
  17                      mp->b_cont->b_rptr;
  18                  cq->cq_size = KNOWN_IOCTL_SIZE;
  19                  cq->cq_private = (mblk_t *) (1);
  20                  mp->b_datap->db_type = M_COPYIN;
  21                  freemsg(mp->b_cont);
  22                  if (!(mp->b_cont =
  23                        allocb(KNOWN_IOCTL_SIZE,
  24                               BPRI_MED))) {
  25                      mp->b_datap->db_type = M_IOCNAK;
  26                      ioc->ioc_rval = -1;
  27                      ioc->ioc_error = ENOBUFS;
  28                      qreply(q, mp);
  29                      return;
  30                  }
  31                  bcopy(data, mp->b_cont->b_wptr,
  32                        KNOWN_IOCTL_SIZE);
  33                  mp->b_cont->b_wptr +=
  34                      KNOWN_IOCTL_SIZE;
  35                  qreply(q, mp);
  36                  return;
  37              }
  38              /* copied in data is in mp->b_cont for
  39                 I_STR ioctls */
  40              break;
  41          default:
  42              mp->b_datap->db_type = M_IOCNAK;
  43              qreply(q, mp);
  44              return;
  45          }
  46          /* fall through */
  47      case M_IOCDATA:
  48          cp = (typeof(cq)) mp->b_rptr;
  49          if (cp->cp_rval) {
  50              /* copy error, abort */
  51              cp->cp_private = NULL;
  52              freemsg(mp);
  53              return;
  54          }
  55          cp->cp_private = NULL;
  56          mp->b_datap->db_type = M_IOCACK;
  57          ioc = (typeof(ioc)) mp->b_rptr;
  58          ioc->ioc_rval = 0;
  59          ioc->ioc_error = 0;
  60          qreply(q, mp);
  61          return;
  62      default:
  63          freemsg(mp);
  64          return;
  65      }
  66  }
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_COPYOUT
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B LiS
.[
lis
.]
erroneously expects an
.BR M_IOCNAK (9)
message containing an error when it responds to the driver with an
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
message with a
.I cp_rval
of
.BR "(caddr_t)(1)" .
See
.BR M_IOCDATA (9),
for more information.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will use
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
instead of
.BR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP \(em
.B M_COPYOUT
has a different constant value on
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.IR MacOT \(rg,
.[
macspg
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfspg
.]
and older versions of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will use
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
instead of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP \(em
Binary compatiblity is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_COPYOUT
message first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
