'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_DATA.9.man,v 0.9.2.8 2006/04/05 09:44:02 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:02 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: M_DATA.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:44:02  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M_DATA 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_DATA
\- \fISTREAMS\fP data message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_DATA
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains unstructured data.  (With a few exceptions, any
structure imposed on the
.B M_DATA
data buffer is defined outside of
.IR STREAMS .)
.PP
An
.B M_DATA
message is a normal priority message that consists of one or more
.B M_DATA
message blocks.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_DATA
message is intended to contain ordinary data.  Messages allocated by the
.BR allocb (9)
utility are type
.B M_DATA
by default.
.B M_DATA
messages are generally sent upstream or downstream on a
Stream
and their contents can be passed between a process and the
Stream head.
.PP
An
.B M_DATA
message consists of one or more
.B M_DATA
blocks.
.B M_DATA
messages are generally sent in both the downstream and upstream directions on a Stream.
.B M_DATA
message sent upstream and arriving at the Stream head are available to be read by user level
processes using the
.BR read (2s),
.BR getmsg (2),
or
.BR getpmsg (2s)
system calls.
.B M_DATA
messages can be sent downstream from the Stream head by a user level process using the
.BR write (2s),
.BR putmsg (2),
or
.BR putpmsg (2s)
system calls.
.PP
When describing
.IR STREAMS -specific
system calls, the contents of an
.B M_DATA
messsage are referred to collectively as the
.IR "data part" .
For the
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR getpmsg (2s),
.BR putmsg (2),
and
.BR putpmsg (2s)
system calls, the control and data parts are passed separately.  Only a
.BR putmsg (2)
or
.BR putpmsg (2s)
call that does not contain a control part will generate
.BR M_DATA
messages.
(For the messages resulting from calls to these system calls with a control part specified, see
.BR M_PROTO (9)
and
.BR M_PCPROTO (9).)
For the
.BR read (2s)
and
.BR write (2s)
system calls, only the data part is passed.
.PP
.B M_DATA
messages can be formulated using multiple
.B M_DATA
message blocks.  The minimum and maximum packet sizes associated with the upstream module read-side
queue (that is, the
.I q_minpsz
and
.I q_maxpsz
fields of the upstream
.BR queue (9)
structure),
provide advise to the module on the minimum and maximum amounts of data that a given
.B M_DATA
block in an
.B M_DATA
message should contain.
The
Stream head
will compact multiple
.B M_DATA
blocks into a single data part, when passing them to the user process.  The
.BR write (2s),
.BR putmsg (2),
and
.BR putpmsg (2s)
system calls use the
.I q_minpsz
and
.I q_maxpsz
fields of the write-side queue of the topmost downstream module when determining the size and number
of
.B M_DATA
blocks placed in the resulting downstream
.B M_DATA
messages.  For a description of this procedure, see
.BR write (2s).
.PP
.B M_DATA
messages,
by nature of the initial message block type,
are normal (or priority) messages, and are, therefore, subject to flow control restrictions with a
Stream.  In contrast, the non-standard
.BR M_HPDATA (9)
message is a high priority message serving the same purpose, that is not subject to flow control
restrictions.
.B M_DATA
messages can have an assigned priority.  The priorty of an
.B M_DATA
message contained in the
.I b_band
member of the
.BR msgb (9)
structure of the initial
.B M_DATA
message block 
in the message.
.PP
.B M_DATA
messages passed upstream to be read by a user level process, or passed downstream as a result of
being written by a user level process can support both a byte-stream view of the data path, where
there are no message boundaries, or a packet (delimited) view, where message boundaries are
preserved.
To support the delimited view,
.B M_DATA
message blocks can optionally contain the
.BR MSGDELIM
flag in the
.I b_flag
member of the intial message block to indicate that the last byte of the message represents a
message boundary.
A driver or module can request that the
Stream head
support the delimited view of
.B M_DATA
messages using the
.B MSGDELIM
flag, by sending an
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message to the Stream head with the
.B SO_DELIM
flag set.
For details, see
.RI \(lq SO_DELIM \(rq
in
.BR M_SETOPTS (9),
.BR read (2s)
and
.BR write (2s).
Because a driver or module has no mechanism to examine Stream head options (only a mechanism to set
them), drivers and modules should both generate and respect the
.BR MSGDELIM
flag in
.B M_DATA
messages when appropriate.
.PP
Messages composed of multiple message blocks will typically have
.B M_DATA
as the message type for all message blocks following the first.
Examples are
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_PCPROTO (9),
.BR M_IOCTL (9),
.BR M_IOCDATA (9),
and
.BR M_CTL (9),
messages.
In the
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR getpmsg (2s),
.BR putmsg (2),
and
.BR putpmsg (2s)
system calls, the contents of the
.B M_DATA
message blocks,
when attached to a
.BR M_PROTO (9)
or
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
initial message block,
are also referred to as the
.IR "data part" .
Rules governing the creation and form of
.B M_DATA
messages also applies to the
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks attached to
.BR M_PROTO (9)
and
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
messages.
See
.BR M_PROTO (9)
and
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
for details.
.\"
.B M_DATA
messages can be generated by user level processes using the
.BR write (2s),
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR putpmsg (2s),
and
.BR I_INSERTFD (7)
.BR ioctl (2s)
system calls.
.B M_DATA
message arriving at the
Stream head
are made available to the user level process for reading with
.BR read (2s),
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR getpmsg (2s)
and
.BR I_PEEK (7)
.BR ioctl (2s)
system calls.
.B M_DATA
messages may be generated by drivers and modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR M_DATA ,
.BR M_PROTO (9)
and
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
messages are the work horses of a service interface under
.IR STREAMS .
They are generated both by user level processes as well as drivers and modules.  These messages
normally represent a default service primitive within a service interface definition at a message
passing boundary within a Stream.
An
.B M_DATA
message is normally equivalent to a
.BR M_PROTO (9)
message, but with default control information associated with the message.
The
.B M_DATA
message contains unstructured service interface user data.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR datab (9),
.BR allocb (9),
.BR read (2s),
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR getpmsg (2s),
.BR write (2s),
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR putpmsg (2s),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_PCPROTO (9),
.BR queue (9),
.BR M_HPDATA (9),
.BR msgb (9),
.BR M_SETOPTS (9),
.BR M_IOCTL (9),
.BR M_IOCDATA (9),
.BR M_CTL (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_DATA
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The
.B M_DATA
message is standard across
.I STREAMS
implementations, and has no portability issues.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibiltiy is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_DATA
message first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
