'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_HANGUP.9.man,v 0.9.2.11 2007/03/28 13:44:12 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/28 13:44:12 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: M_HANGUP.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.11  2007/03/28 13:44:12  brian
.\" - updates to syncrhonization, release notes and documentation
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2006/04/05 09:44:02  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M_HANGUP 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_HANGUP
\- \fISTREAMS\fP hangup message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_HANGUP
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains no data.
.PP
An
.B M_HANGUP
message is a high priority message that consists of a single
.B M_HANGUP
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_HANGUP
message is generated and sent upstream by a driver or module to report that it can no longer send
data upstream.  As an example, this might be due to an error, or to a remote line connection being
dropped.
.PP
When the message reaches the
Stream head,
the
Stream
is marked so that all subsequent
.BR write (2s),
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR putpmsg (2s),
and write-related
system calls issued to the
Stream
will fail and return
.RB [ ENXIO ]
error.  Those
.BR ioctl (2s)s
that cause messages to be sent downstream or otherwise affect he sending of messages downstream are
also failed.
.B POLLHUP
is set if the
Stream
is being polled [see
.BR poll (2s)].
For a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4)
.RB [ EPIPE ]
is returned instead of
.RB [ ENXIO ]
and a
.RI { SIGPIPE }
signal is sent to the writing process.
For a
.IR STREAMS -based
controlling terminal,
.RB [ ENXIO ]
is returned,
and a
.RI { SIGHUP }
signal is sent to the controlling process.  The signal is sent to the controlling process instead of
the foreground process group, since the allocation and deallocation of controlling terminals to a
session is the responsibility of the controlling process.
Any process that has registered for a
.B S_HANGUP
event for the
Stream
will have a
.RI { SIGPOLL }
signal sent.
.PP
However, subsequent
.BR read (2s),
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR getpmsg (2s),
and read-related
system calls issued to the
Stream
will not generate an error.  These calls will return any messages (according to their function) that
were on, or in transit to, the
Stream head
read queue before the
.B M_HANGUP
message was received.  When all such messages have been read,
.BR read (2s)
will return zero
.RB ( 0 )
and
.BR getmsg (2)
will set each of its two length fields to zero
.RB ( 0 )
to indicate terminal hangup.  (Note that, in constrast, a terminal end-of-file is indicated by
setting the control part length to minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and the data part length to zero
.RB ( 0 ).)
.PP
Any process attempting to open a hungup
Stream,
with the
.BR open (2s)
system call,
will fail and the caller will be returned the error number
.RB [ EIO ]
in
.IR errno (3).
.PP
A hangup condition induced at the
Stream head
by sending an
.B M_HANGUP
message can be reversed under some implementataions with the non-portable
.BR M_UNHANGUP (9)
message.
See
.BR M_UNHANGUP (9)
for details.
.\"
.PP
.B M_HANGUP
messages cannot be generated directly by a user level process, except by closing one side of a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4)
or the slave side of a
.IR STREAMS -based
pseudo-terminal.
.B M_HANGUP
messages arriving at a non-multiplexing drivers should be discarded (ignored and freed).
.B M_HANGUP
messages can be generated by drivers and modules.
.B M_HANGUP
messages arriving at the
Stream head
are consumed.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B M_HANGUP
message is used normally for terminals and terminal-like interfaces that use primarly the
.BR read (2s)
and
.BR write (2s)
system calls for IO to the driver.
.PP
An example of such a terminal-like interface is the
.BR tirdwr (4)
module that converts a
.I "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
networking Stream to provide support to a primarily terminal-like
.BR read (2s)/ write " (2s)
interface.
See
.BR tirdwr (4)
for details.
.PP
The
.B M_HANGUP
message can be used in much the same circumstances an an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message.  Indeed, the differences between an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message with only a write-side error of
.RB [ ENXIO ]
are slight.
(Such an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
will generate an
.B S_ERROR
event instead of
.B S_HANGUP
and
.B POLLERR
will be reported instead of
.BR POLLHUP .)
.PP
The following guidelines provide best practise for generation of the
.B M_HANGUP
message for drivers and modules:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
The
.B M_HANGUP
message is a high priority message and is not subjected to flow control.  Modules should pass the
.B M_HANGUP
message along directly from a
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure and should not queue the message.
.IP \(bu
Modules and drivers should only pass this message upstream.  Intermediate modules may record the fact
that a
.B M_HANGUP
message has transitted the module; however, the
module must pass the
.B M_HANGUP
message along upstream.
.IP \(bu
An
.B M_HANGUP
message arriving at the write-side queue of a module should be passed along as an unrecognized
message type.
This permits
.B M_HANGUP
messages to be passed along a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4).
.IP \(bu
An
.B M_HANGUP
message arriving at the write-side queue of a driver should be discarded.
.IP \(bu
An
.B M_HANGUP
message arriving at the read-side queue on the lower side of a multiplexing driver should be
treated in a similar fashion as the
Stream head.
That is, the driver should cease sending messages
on the lower multiplexer queue pair.
.IP \(bu
Because of the asynchronous nature of the
.B M_HANGUP
message, use of the
.B M_HANGUP
message by a driver or module should be reserved for disconnect conditions, where the
Stream
is unusable for transmission and will require the
Stream
to be dismantled and recreated to reestablish communications.  Non-disconnect conditions should be
reported with the protocol of the service interface, or using the
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message.
.IP \(bu
Fatal protocol errors are to be reported with the
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message and not with the
.B M_HANGUP
message.
.IP \(bu
.B M_HANGUP
should not be used to return an error to an
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.
Unless a hangup condition has truly occured, an
.BR M_IOCNAK (9)
message should be used instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR M_TRAIL (9),
.BR M_UNHANGUP (9),
.BR M_ERROR (9),
.BR M_IOCNAK (9),
.IR qi_putp (9),
.BR read (2s),
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR getpmsg (2s),
.BR write (2s),
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR putpmsg (2s),
.BR pipe (4),
.BR tirdwr (4),
.IR errno (3),
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_HANGUP
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
documents that an
.BR M_TRAIL (9)
message is to be sent to the Stream head following an
.B M_HANGUP
message.
.IR HPUX \(rg
documents that an
.BR M_TRAIL (9)
message is to be sent to the Stream head following an
.B M_HANGUP
message that contains the special two-byte value,
.BR TRAIL_TOKEN .
See
.BR M_TRAIL (9)
for more information.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will send an
.BR M_TRAIL (9)
message to the Stream head after an
.B M_HANGUP
message when the
.B M_TRAIL
message type is defined.
.IP \(em
.B M_HANGUP
is has the wrong message type value on older versions of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will use
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
instead of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP \(em
Binary compatibiltiy is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_HANGUP
message first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
