'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_HPDATA.9.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/11/23 12:37:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/23 12:37:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH M_HPDATA 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_HPDATA
\- \fISTREAMS\fP high priority data message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_HPDATA
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains unstructured data.
.PP
An
.B M_HPDATA
message is a high priority message that consists of one
.B M_HPDATA
message block followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_HPDATA
is an
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfspg
.]
implementation specific message that is generated and used internally by the
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
implementation of
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.PP
.B M_HPDATA
messages cannot be generated directly by a user level process.
.B M_HPDATA
messages arriving at the
Stream head
are discarded (ignored and freed).
.B M_HPDATA
message arriving at a driver can be discarded (ignored and freed).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The use of the
.B M_HPDATA
message is poorly documented and it is not intended to be used by
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
One can only assume that it is used by the
Stream head
to place the data part of a message back on the
Stream head
read queue that has had a high priority control part (i.e.,
.BR M_PCPROTO (9)
message block) removed.
.PP
The
.B M_HPDATA
message will not be passed down a Stream from the Stream head.
.PP
Modules or drivers receiving this message type should treat it as a high priority message of unknown
type.  That is:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Modules receiving the
.BR H_HPDATA
message should pass it along as any unknown high priority message type.  The message is of high
priority and should not be subject to flow control.
.IP \(bu
A driver reecieving the
.BR M_HPDATA
message should discard the message as an unknown message type.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_HPDATA
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfdoc
.]
and
.IR "Mac OT" \(rg
.[
macspg
.]
document the
.BR M_HPDATA (9)
data block type.
This data block type is provided for source compatibility with drivers written
for
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
and
.IR "Mac OT" \(rg,
and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
It might be necessary to define
.B _OSF_SOURCE
before including
.B sys/stream.h
to expose this symbol.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not use the
.BR M_HPDATA (9)
data block type.
.IP \(em
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
Stream head does not use this message type and will discard it if it arrives at the Stream head.
.IP \(em
.B M_HPDATA
has a different constant value under
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
and
.IR MacOT \(rg.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR osfcompat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_HPDATA
message first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
