'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_IOCACK.9.man,v 0.9.2.6 2005/11/25 23:42:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/25 23:42:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH M_IOCACK 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_IOCACK
\- \fISTREAMS\fP IO control acknowledgement message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_IOCACK
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains structured data.
.PP
An
.B M_IOCACK
message is a high priority message that consists of one
.B M_IOCACK
message block followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
message blocks.
.PP
The
.B M_IOCACK
message block contains a
.BR iocblk (9)
structure, formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct iocblk {
        int ioc_cmd;          /* command to perform */
        cred_t *ioc_cr;       /* credentials */
        uint ioc_id;          /* id of this ioctl */
        caddr_t __pad1;
        size_t ioc_count;     /* size of the data field */
        int ioc_error;        /* ioctl error code (for errno) */
        int ioc_rval;         /* system call return value */
        uint ioc_flag;
        mblk_t *__pad2;
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
where,
.TP \w'ioc_count\(em'u
.I ioc_cmd
contains the corresponding command from the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message block.
.TP
.I ioc_cr
contains the corresponding user credentials pointer from the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message block.
.TP
.I ioc_id
contains the corresponding IO control identifier from the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message block.
.TP
.I ioc_count
contains the count of the number of bytes to be copied to the user by the
Stream head with
.BR copyout (9),
contained in the attached
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block(s).
.TP
.I ioc_error
contains the error number for the Stream head to return to the user in
.IR errno (3).
.TP
.I ioc_rval
contains the return value for the Stream head to return to the user on the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call that began the operation.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_IOCACK
message is generated and sent from the module or driver processing an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message.
The
.B M_IOCACK
message signals to the Stream head the positive acknowlegment of the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message and completion of the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.
.PP
The message format is one
.B M_IOCACK
block (containing an
.BR iocblk (9)
structure, see
.BR M_IOCTL (9))
followed by zero or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks.  The
.BR iocblk (9)
structure may contain a value in
.I ioc_rval
to be returned to the user process.  It may also contain a value in
.I ioc_error
to be returned to the user process in
.BR errno (3).
.PP
If this message is responding to an
.BR I_STR (7)
.BR ioctl (2s)
[see
.BR streamio (7)],
it may contain data from the receiving module or driver to be copied to the user process by the
Stream head with
.BR copyout (9).
In this
case, message format is one
.B M_IOCACK
block followed by one or more
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks containing the user data.
The responding module or driver will set
.I ioc_count
to the number of bytes to be copied out from the attached
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block(s).
.PP
The
Stream head
returns the data to the user if there is a corresponding outstanding
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
request (that is, one with the same
.IR ioc_id ).
Otherwise, the
.B M_IOCACK
message is ignored and all blocks in the message are freed.
.PP
Data can not be returned in an
.B M_IOCACK
message responding to a
.I transparent
.BR M_IOCTL (9).
The data must have been sent with preceding
.BR M_COPYOUT (9)
message(s).  If any
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks follow the
.B M_IOCACK
block, the
Stream head
will ignore and free them.
When the
Stream head
receives an
.BR M_IOCACK ,
the outstanding
.BR ioctl (2s)
request, if any, will succeed.
.PP
The format and use of this message type is described further under
.BR M_IOCTL (9).
.\"
.B M_IOCACK
messages cannot be generated directly by a user level process.
.B M_IOCACK
messages arriving at a non-multiplexing driver can be discarded (ignored and freed).
.B M_IOCACK
message can be generated by modules and drivers responding to an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message.
.B M_IOCACK
messages are consumed by the
Stream head.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Guidlines for procesing the
.B M_IOCACK
message are as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Intermediate modules that do not intend to process this message will not queue the
.B M_IOCACK
message upstream.  In any event, an intermediate module must not flush or discard an
.B M_IOCACK
message.
.IP ""
As only one
.BR ioctl (2s)
operation, and therefore, one
.B M_IOCACK
message can be in progress on a Stream,
queueing of the message would cause unnecessary dealy in processing an
.BR ioctl (2s).
Only one high-priority message can be outstanding at the Stream head, so ordering of this message
with respect to other high priority messages is not an issue.
.IP \(bu
Modules or drivers should only issue a
.BR M_IOCACK
message containing a
.I ioc_count
value in response to a non-tranparent
.BR ioctl (2s).
.IP \(bu
The message should be created by transforming a received
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
or
.BR M_IOCDATA (9)
message.
.IP \(bu
An intermediate module receiving an
.B M_IOCACK
message on its write-side queue, will pass the message along in the same manner as any unexpected
high priority message: that is, it is passed to the next module and not subjected to flow control.
This permits
.BR ioctl (2s)
handling to perform correctly across a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4).
.IP \(bu
A driver receiving an
.BR M_IOCACK
message discards the message.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Under
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
it is not possible to return an error and a return value at the same time.  This is due to a
.B Linux
limitation in this regard.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_IOCACK
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The order and size of the various members of the
.BR iocblk (9)
structure, and the associated aligned
.BR copyreq (9)
and
.BR copyresp (9)
structures, vary in
.I STREAMS
from implementation to implementation.  Some implementations have different structure definitions
depending upon the word size of a specific architecture.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
follows the
.IR "SVR 4.2"
implementation as closely as possible.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not rely upon a specific overall size of the
.BR ioclk (9)
structure, or the offset or alignment of any of its members.
See
.BR iocblk (9)
for additional compatibiltiy information.
.IP \(em
.B M_IOCACK
is has the wrong message type value on older versions of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will use
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
instead of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_IOCACK
message first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
