'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_LETSPLAY.9.man,v 0.9.2.1 2005/04/28 11:36:34 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/04/28 11:36:34 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH M_LETSPLAY 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_LETSPLAY
\- \fISTREAMS\fP let's play direct I/O message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_LETSPLAY
message is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains a
.B strlp
structure.
The
.B strlp
structure is formatted as follows:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-2
struct strlp {
        int lp_count;
        queue_t *lp_queue;
};
\s+2\fP
.fi
.TP \w'lp_count\(em'u
.I lp_count
Initially set to zero by the driver, this count is incremented by each module
that recognizes the
.B M_LETSPLAY
message type and will permit direct IO to the driver.
.TP
.I lp_queue
A pointer to the driver's write queue.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B M_LETSPLAY
is a message used in conjunction with
.BR M_BACKDONE (9),
.BR M_BACKWASH (9),
and
.BR M_DONTPLAY (9)
to coordinate the establishment of direct IO from the driver, bypassing the stream head and any
pushed modules, using the
.BR wantio (9)
utility.  See
.BR wantio (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Before calling
.BR wantio (9)
for an active stream, and shifting from normal stream head IO to driver direct IO,
the following steps should be performed by the driver:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
Send a
.B M_LETSPLAY
message upstream with a
.B strlp
structure in the message.
.IP ""
Once the
.B M_LETSPLAY
message reaches the stream head, the stream head compares the
.I lp_count
count with the number of modules pushed on the stream.  If the two are equal, all modules pushed on
the stream agree to driver direct IO, and the stream head returns an
.BR M_BACKDONE (9)
message.  If the two are different, some module pushed on the stream does not agree to driver direct
IO, and the stream head returns an
.BR M_DONTPLAY (9)
message.
.IP (2)
Wait for an
.BR M_DONTPLAY (9)
or
.BR M_BACKDONE (9)
message received on the write queue.
.IP ""
When an intervening module receives an
.BR M_BACKDONE (9)
message, it delivers all queued data as
.BR M_BACKWASH (9)
messages, and any
.BR M_BACKWASH (9)
messages received from upstream,
and sends the
.BR M_BACKDONE (9)
message downstream.
In this way, all queue data is delivered to the driver's write queue as
.BR M_BACKWASH (9)
messages followed by a
.BR M_BACKDONE (9)
message.
.IP (3)
If an
.BR M_DONTPLAY (9)
message is received, the driver cannot call
.BR wantio (9).
.IP (4)
If an
.BR M_BACKDONE (9)
message is received, the driver can handle any
.BR M_BACKWASH (9)
messages representing pushed data and then call
.BR wantio (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B M_LETSPLAY
is an
.IR AIX \(rg
specific message.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR
.BR datab (9),
.BR M_BACKDONE (9),
.BR M_BACKWASH (9),
.BR M_DONTPLAY (9),
.BR wantio (9),
.BR msgb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_LETSPLAY
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR AIX \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
.B M_LETSPLAY
is an
.IR AIX \(rg
specific message, provided for compatibility with
.IR AIX \(rg.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not use this message.
.PP
See
.BR aixcompat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg
documentation.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_LETSPLAY
message first appeared in
.IR AIX \(rg.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
