'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id$
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date$ by $Author$
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log$
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH M_MI 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_MI
\- \fISTREAMS\fP RFILL mode control message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_MI
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains structured data.
.PP
An
.B M_MI
message is a high priority message that consists of a single
.B M_MI
message block.
.PP
The
.B M_MI
message block contains an integer
.RB ( int )
subtype optionally followed by two long unsigned integers
.RB ( ulong ).
.PP
The integer subtype can be one of the following values:
.TP
.B M_MI_READ_SEEK
This message subtype is followed by two unsigned long integers containing the
position from which to seek and the offset from the position.  The position
from which to seek can be one of the following values:
.sp
.RS
.IP 0
The start of the buffer.
.IP 1
The current position in the buffer.
.IP 2
The end of the buffer.
.RE
.TP
.B M_MI_READ_RESET
.TP
.B M_MI_READ_END
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
implementation extension.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B M_MI
is an
.IR AIX \(rg
specific message.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR datab (9),
.BR M_READ (9),
.BR msgb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_MI
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR AIX \(rg,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
documents the
.BR M_MI (9)
data block type.
This data block type is provided for source compatibility with drivers
written for
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
It might be necessary to define
.B _AIX_SOURCE
before including
.B sys/stream.h
to expose these symbols.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not use the
.BR M_MI (9)
data block type.
.IP \(em
.B M_MI
is an
.IR AIX \(rg
specific message, provided by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
for compatibility with
.IR AIX \(rg.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not use this message.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR aixcompat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg
documentation.
.[
aixspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_MI
message first appeared in
.IR AIX \(rg.
.[
aixspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
