'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_NOTIFY.9.man,v 0.9.2.8 2006/04/05 09:44:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: M_NOTIFY.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:44:03  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M_NOTIFY 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_NOTIFY
\- \fISTREAMS\fP notification message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_NOTIFY
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains unstructured data.
.PP
An
.B M_NOTIFY
message is a high priority message that consists a single
.B M_NOTIFY
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
implementation extension.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_NOTIFY
message is generated and sent downstream by the
Stream head
when a message with the
.B MSGNOTIFY
flag set in the
.I b_flag
member of the first message block is read by a user level process.
.PP
The format of the message is a single
.BR M_NOTIFY
message block that contains unstructured data.
The contents of the message is poorly documented.
.\"
.PP
.B M_NOTIFY
messages cannot be generated directly by a user level process (but can be generated indirectly by
reading a message marked with
.BR MSGNOTIFY ).
.B M_NOTIFY
messages arriving at the
Stream head
are discarded (ignored and freed).
.B M_NOTIFY
messages are consumed by the driver or module that marked the message to which the notification
pertains.
.B M_NOTIFY
messages should not be generated by drivers or modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B M_NOTIFY
message is used by some implementations of
.BR ldterm (4)
.RI ( AIX \(rg,
.[
aixspg
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
and
.IR OSF/1 \(rg.)
.[
osfspg
.]
.PP
The process used by the
.B M_NOTIFY
message and the behavior of the
Stream head,
drivers and modules is poorly documented,
therefore, the mechanism is not implemented under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.[
lfs
.]
.PP
I think, however, that the behaviour might be something like this:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
A driver or module wishing
Stream head
notification when a data message
.RB ( M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_PCPROTO (9),
or
.BR M_DATA (9))
passed upstream is read by a user level process, 
marks the message to request notification by setting the
.B MSGNOTIFY
flag in the
.I b_flag
member of the first message block of the data message, and passes the message upstream.
.IP (2)
When a data message marked with
.B MSGNOTIFY
arrives at the
Stream head
and is delivered (fully or in part) to the user level process, the
Stream head
formulates an
.B M_NOTIFY
message to be passed downstream as notification.
.IP (3)
The contents of the
.B M_NOTIFY
message is unclear.
.IP (4)
When the requesting driver or module receives the
.B M_NOTIFY
message from the
Stream head,
it is notified of the fact that the oldest outstanding message that was marked with a
.B MSGNOTIFY
flag was delivered.  The driver or module might be able to use some information that the
Stream head
placed in the
.B M_NOTIFY
message to match the outstanding message with the notification.
.PP
Guidelines for processing of the
.B M_NOTIFY
message in drivers and modules is as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If an intermediate module recognizes, but is not processing the
.B M_NOTIFY
message, it passes it downstream.  As a high priority message, the
.B M_NOTIFY
message is not subject to flow control and should not be queued.
.IP \(bu
If an intermediate module does not recognize the
.B M_NOTIFY
message, it passes it upstream or downstream as with any unrecognized high priority message: it is
not subject to flow control and should not be queued.
.IP \(bu
If a driver receives an
.B M_NOTIFY
message and does not recognize the message, it is discarded.  If the driver is not processing
notifications, the message is discarded.
.IP \(bu
If an intermediate module or the driver recognizes the
.B M_NOTIFY
message and is awaiting notification for a previous message passed upstream marked with the
.B MSGNOTIFY
flag in
.IR b_flag ,
it treats the message as acknowledgement of the read and frees the message.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_NOTIFY
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixspg
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfspg
.]
and
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
document the
.B M_NOTIFY
data block type.
This data block type is provided for source compatibility with drivers written
for
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixspg
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfspg
.]
or
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
It might be necessary to define
.BR _AIX_SOURCE ,
.BR _OSF_SOURCE ,
or
.B _HPUX_SOURCE
before including
.B sys/stream.h
to expose this symbol.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not use the
.B M_NOTIFY
data block type.
.IP \(em
The
.B MSGNOTIFY
flag and
.B M_NOTIFY
message are not implemented in the
Stream head
under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
This is because the contents of the message and the behaviour is so poorly documented.  If someone
knows of the particulars, let the
.B OpenSS7 Project
know.
.B MSGNOTIFY
and
.B M_NOTIFY
are placed holders that contain the necessary constant values only and are provided for source level
compatibiltiy with
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixspg
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.IR OSF \(rg.
.[
osfspg
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not use the
.B MSGNOTIFY
message flag and will not expect to received
.BR M_NOTIFY
messages.
.IP \(em
.B M_NOTIFY
has a diffent constant value under
.IR AIX \(rg,
.[
aixspg
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfspg
.]
and
.IR HP-UX \(rg.
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.IP ""
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR aixcompat (9),
.BR hpuxcompat (9),
.BR osfcompat (9),
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_NOTIFY
message first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
