'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_PASSFP.9.man,v 0.9.2.5 2005/11/23 12:37:56 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/23 12:37:56 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH M_PASSFP 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_PASSFP
\- \fISTREAMS\fP pass file pointer message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_PASSFP
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains structured data.
.PP
An
.B M_PASSFP
message is a normal priority message that consists of a single
.B M_PASSFP
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_PASSFP
message is used internally by
.I STREAMS
to pass a file pointer from the
Stream head
at one end of a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4)
to the
Stream head
at the other end of the same
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4).
.PP
The message is generated as a result of an
.BR I_SENDFD (7)
command to an
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call issued by a user level process to the sending
Stream head.
.I STREAMS
places the
.B M_PASSFP
message directly on the destination
Stream head's
read queue to be retreived by an
.BR I_RECVFD (7)
command to the
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call.
The message is placed without passing it through the
Stream
(i.e., it is not seen by any modules or drivers in the
Stream).
This message should never be present on any queue except the read queue of a
Stream head.
Consequently, modules and drivers do not need to recognize this message, and it can be ignored by
module and driver developers.
.PP
There are several reasons why the
.B M_PASSFP
message is placed directly on the opposite
Stream head:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
The message contains a reference to a file pointer (file table entry) within the kernel and must not
be freed without also releasing this reference.
.IP (2)
The message must not be altered by modules in the
Stream.
.IP (3)
Although the message contents are structured, the contents rely on implementation specifics of the
Stream head.
Therefore, the message is of no use to a portable module or driver.
.PP
Because the
.B M_PASSFP
message is placed directly on the opposite
Stream head,
although it is message of normal priority, it is treated as a high priority message.
.\"
.B M_PASSFP
messages can be generated directly by a user level process with the
.BR I_SENDFD (7)
.BR ioctl (2s).
.B M_PASSFP
messages can be consumed directly by a user level process with the
.BR I_RECVFD (7)
.BR ioctl (2s).
.B M_PASSFP
messages should not be generated by modules or drivers.
.B M_PASSFP
messages arriving at a module or driver can be discarded (ignored and freed).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
There is one standard module (besides the
Stream head)
that needs to generate an pass a
.B M_PASSFP
message.  That module is
.BR connld (4).
The
.BR connld (4)
module must pass a file pointer to the
Stream head
opposite to the one that is is pushed over, on each open of the
Stream.
The
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
implementation of the
.B M_PASSFP
message is detailed below, under
.RI \(lq IMPLEMENTATION \(rg
as documentation for this module and any other module that needs to perform a similar task.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.PP
Under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
.[
lfs
.]
the
.B M_PASSFP
message contains (indirectly)
a file pointer (that is, a pointer to a
.B file
structure as defined in
.RB < linux/fs.h >).
The
Stream head
allocates the message block using the
.BR esballoc (9)
utility instead of
.BR allocb (9).
The free routine and argument to the free routine are special.  The free routine argument is the
file pointer, and the free routine simply releases the reference to the file pointer.
Rather than pointing into the data buffer,
.I b_rptr
points to the free routing argument contained in the
data block,
.BR datab (9),
structure, and
.I b_wptr
points one byte past the argument.
.PP
In this way,
.B M_PASSFP
messages sitting on a
Stream head
read queue can be flushed as normal, using the
.BR flushq (9)
utility, and the reference to each file pointer will be released.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_PASSFP
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Contents of the
.B M_PASSFP
message and implementation of the
.BR sth (4)
and
.BR connld (4)
modules are, by nature, implementation specific.  Neither can be implemented in a fully portable
manner.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not expect the
.B M_PASSFP
message to appear on their queues, and will never generate an
.B M_PASSFP
message.
.IP \(em
.B M_PASSFP
has a different constant value on
older versions of
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfspg
.]
and older versions of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will use
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
instead of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_PASSFP
message first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
