'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_PCSIG.9.man,v 0.9.2.6 2005/11/25 23:42:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/25 23:42:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH M_PCSIG 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_PCSIG
\- \fISTREAMS\fP priority signal message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_PCSIG
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains structured data.
.PP
An
.B M_PCSIG
message is a high priority message that consists of a single
.B M_PCSIG
message block.
.PP
The
.B M_PCSIG
message block contains a single
.B unsigned char
number indicating the signal number (defined in
.RB < sys/signal.h >),
to be delivered to the process or process group.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
As the
.BR M_SIG (9)
message, except for the priority and the sequence of execution at the
Stream head.
.PP
The format of the
.B M_PCSIG
message is a single
.B M_PCSIG
message block containing in its first, and only, byte, the signal number
(as defined in
.RB < sys/signal.h >)
to be posted.
.PP
In constrast to the
.BR M_SIG (9)
message, the
.B M_PCSIG
message is acted upon immediately upon arrival to the
Stream head
read queue
.BR putp (9)
procedure.
.PP
The
Stream head
performs the same actions as for
.BR M_SIG (9)
when generating a signal:
If the signal number in the message is
.RI { SIGPOLL },
the
.RI { SIGPOLL }
signal will be posted to each process that registered for the
.B S_MSG
event using the
.BR I_SETSIG (7)
command to
.BR ioctl (2s).
If the signal number contained in the message is not
.RI { SIGPOLL },
then the signal is posted to the process group, if any, associated with the
Stream.
.PP
Once the
Stream head
posts the signal to any process or process group meeting the criteria above, it frees the message.
.PP
In contrast, the
.BR M_SIG (9)
message is placed on the
Stream head
read queue, and the
Stream head
waits until the message arrives at the head of the read queue and a read operation is attempted
before the signal is posted.
See
.BR M_SIG (9)
for details.
.\"
.B M_PCSIG
messages cannot be generated directly by a user level process.
.B M_PCSIG
messages are consumed by the
Stream head.
.B M_PCSIG
messages arriving at a non-multiplexing driver can be discarded (ignored and freed).
.B M_PCSIG
messages can be generated by modules and drivers.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.B M_PCSIG
can be used by modules that require the ability to expedite a signal to the
Stream head.
Unlike the
.BR M_SIG (9)
message, that could become queued behind a large number of data messages,
.B M_PCSIG
is a high priority message that will pass to the
Stream head
ahead of data messages.
.PP
.B M_PCSIG
can be used to alert processes waiting on
.B POLLMSG
in
.BR poll (2s),
registered for
.B S_MSG
with
.BR I_SETSIG (7),
or within a process group of a terminal, controlling terminal, or socket.
The signal will be posted ahead of all data queued upstream within the
Stream
and
Stream head.
The use of
.B M_PCSIG
is normally detailed as part of the service interface definition for the module or
driver.
.PP
Guidelines for processing of the
.B M_PCSIG
message are as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Intermediate modules receiving the
.B M_PCSIG
message must pass it along the
Stream
in either the upstream or downstream in accordance with the procedure for high priority messages:
that is, the message is not subject to flow control and should not be queued.
(This supports, for example,
passing the
.B M_PCSIG
message across a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4).)
.IP \(bu
Non-multiplexing drivers receiving an
.B M_PCSIG
message will discard it.
.IP \(bu
Multiplexing drivers may pass the message to another queue.
(This supports, for example,
passing the
.B M_PCSIG
message across a
.IR STREAMS -based
pseudo-terminal master/slave pair.)
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Note that a process group is normally associated with a
Stream
under the following conditions:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
The
Stream
is a
.IR "controlling terminal" .
A
Stream
becomes a
.IR "controlling terminal"
if, during an open of the terminal using the
.BR open (2s)
system call, a module or the driver sends a
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message to the
Stream head
with the
.B SO_ISTTY
flag set in the
.I so_flags
member of the structure contained in the
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message.  In this case,
if the opening process does not already have a
.IR "controlling terminal" ,
the
Stream head
assigns the terminal as a
.I "controlling terminal"
and sets the process group of the
Stream
to be the to be process group of the opening process.
The process group can later be changed using the
.B TIOCSPGRP
[see
.BR termios (7)]
command to
.BR ioctl (2s).
.IP (2)
The
Stream
is a terminal, but not a
.IR "controlling terminal" ,
and the process group was set against the
Stream
by a process with the
.B TIOCSPGRP
[see
.BR termios (7)]
command to
.BR ioctl (2s),
anyway.
.IP (3)
The
Stream
corresponds to a
.IR Socket ,
and the process group was set against the
.I Socket
by a process with the
.B SIOCSPGRP
[see
.BR sockios (7)]
command to
.BR ioctl (2s).
.PP
Note also that the
.B M_PCSIG
message is not the proper way to post
.RI { SIGHUP }:
.RI { SIGHUP }
should be sent to the session leader instead of the process group for a
.IR "controlling terminal" .
To post a
.RI { SIGHUP }
to the session leader for a
.IR "controlling terminal" ,
use the
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message instead.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR M_SIG (9),
.BR I_SETSIG (7),
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
.BR streamio (7),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR open (2s),
.BR poll (2s),
.BR M_SETOPTS (9),
.BR termios (7),
.BR sockios (7),
.BR read (2s),
.BR readv (2s),
.BR getmsg (2),
.BR getpmsg (2s),
.BR M_DATA (9),
.BR M_PROTO (9),
.BR M_PASSFP (9),
.BR pipe (4).
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_PCSIG
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
also implements the Linux extended
.B POLLSIG
event to
.BR poll(2s),
and the
.I POSIX/SUSv3
.[
susv3
.]
.B POLL_SIG
code for the
.B siginfo
structure described in
.BR sigaction (2)
and
.BR signal.h (0p).
As it is a
.B GNU/Linux
extension, it is not obvious how
.B POLLSIG
should work with
.IR STREAMS .
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications wil not use the
.B GNU/Linux
.B POLLMSG
extension: that is, they will not set it in the requested events against any file descriptor in the
call to
.BR poll (2s).
.IP \(em
.B M_PCSIG
has the wrong message type value on older versions of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will use
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
instead of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_PCSIG
message first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
