'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_PCEVENT.9.man,v 0.9.2.8 2006/04/05 09:44:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: M_PCEVENT.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:44:03  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M_PCEVENT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_PCEVENT
\- \fISTREAMS\fP priority event message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_PCEVENT
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains structured data.
.B M_PCEVENT
data buffer contains an
.B str_evmsg
structure.
.PP
An
.B M_PCEVENT
message is a high priority message that consists of one
.B M_PCEVENT
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
implementation extension.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_PCEVENT
(and
.BR M_EVENT (9))
messages are generated by a driver or module and sent upstream to the
Stream head
to cause an event to be posted to the obsolete
.IR "General Events Subsystem" .
.PP
The format of the
.B M_PCEVENT
message is one
.B M_PCEVENT
message block containing an
.BR str_evmsg (9)
structure formatted as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct str_evmsg {
    long sv_event;     /* module-specific event */
    vnode_t *sv_vp;    /* vnode pointer of event queue */
    long sv_eid;       /* event id */
    long sv_evpri;     /* event priority */
    long sv_flags;     /* event flags */
    uid_t sv_uid;      /* user id of posting process */
    pid_t sv_pid;      /* process id of posting process */
    hostid_t sv_hostid; /* host id of posting process */
    long sv_pad[4];    /* reserved */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
where,
.TP \w'sv_hostid\(em'u
.I sv_event
is a module-specific value that specifies the event to be posted.
.PD 0
.TP
.I sv_vp
is the vnode pointer of the event queue to which to post.
.TP
.I sv_eid
is the event identifier.
.TP
.I sv_evpri
is the even priority.
.TP
.I sv_flags
are event flags.
.TP
.I sv_uid
is the user id of the posting process, if any.
.TP
.I sv_pid
is the process id of the posting process, if any.
.TP
.I sv_hostid
is the host id  of the posting process.
.PD
.\"
.PP
.B M_PCEVENT 
messages cannot be generated directly by a user level process.
.B M_PCEVENT
messages arriving at the
Stream head
are discarded (ignored and freed).
.B M_PCEVENT
messages arriving at a non-multiplexing driver can be discarded (ignored and freed).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B M_PCEVENT
message is long obsolete.  No
.I General Event Subsystem
exists anymore.
The
.B M_PCEVENT
message type is retained only as a placeholder.
If an
.B M_PCEVENT
message is received by the
Stream head,
it will be discarded.
.PP
Modules and drivers receiving this message should treat it as any other unknown message type: that
is:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Intermediate modules receiving the
.B M_PCEVENT
message in either direction should pass the message along.
Because the
.B M_PCEVENT
message is a high priority message, no consideration need be given to flow control nor message
ordering when passing the message.
.IP \(bu
Drivers receiving the
.B M_PCEVENT
message will discard the message.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B M_PCEVENT
message is long obsolete.  No
.I General Event Subsystem
exists anymore.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_PCEVENT
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
solspg
.]
documents the
.BR M_EVENT "(9) and " M_PCEVENT
data block types.
These data block types are provided for source compatibility with drivers
written for
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
It might be necessary to define
.B _SUN_SOURCE
before including
.B sys/stream.h
to expose these symbols.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not use the
.BR M_EVENT "(9) and " M_PCEVENT
data block types.
.IP \(em
The
.B M_PCEVENT
message is specific to early
.IR Solaris \(rg
implementations before
.IR Solaris \(rg " 2.4" .
Little to no documentation exists on its previous use.
The constant
.B M_PCEVENT
is retained as a placeholder.
.IP ""
This message will not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
.IP \(em
.B M_PCEVENT
has a diffent constant value under
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR suncompat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
None.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_PCEVENT
message first appeared in
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.[
solspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
