'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_PCCTL.9.man,v 0.9.2.6 2005/12/06 09:39:08 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/12/06 09:39:08 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH M_PCCTL 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_PCCTL
\- \fISTREAMS\fP priority control message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_PCCTL
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains unstructured data.
.PP
An
.B M_PCCTL
message is a high priority message that consists of one
.B M_PCCTL
message block followed by zero or more
message blocks of unspecified type.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
implementation extension.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_PCCTL
message is generated by modules that wish to send information to a particular module or type of module.
.B M_PCCTL
messages are typically used for inter-module communication, as when adjacent
.I STREAMS
protocol modules negotiate the terms of their interface.  An
.B M_PCCTL
message cannot be generated directly by a user-level process and is always discarded if passed to
the
Stream head.
.PP
.B M_PCCTL
is a high priority message that is not subject to flow control within a
Stream.
Intermediate modules are expected to pass the
.B M_PCCTL
message without queueing it.
.\"
.B M_PCCTL
messages cannot be generated by a user level process.
.B M_PCCTL
message arriving at the
Stream head
are discarded (ignored and freed).
.B M_PCCTL
messages can be generated by drivers and modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
Guidelines for processing the
.B M_PCCTL
message are as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Intermediate modules that do not recognize an
.B M_PCCTL
message must pass the message along in the same manner as any high priority messages.  That
is, they are not subject to flow control and should not be queued.
.IP \(bu
A driver that does not recognize an
.B M_PCCTL
message, discards the message.
.IP \(bu
A driver or module processing an
.B M_PCCTL
message does so with regard to the definitions agreed upon between modules.
.PP
Although
.B M_PCCTL
messages are unstructured and can be used for inter-module communication in a manner defined by the
modules involved, the intended use of
.B M_PCCTL
messages is to provide an inter-module communication mechanism similar to that provided by the
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message when communicating with a user level process.
This is also the approach used for the normal priority
.BR M_CTL (9)
message.  The difference between the
.BR M_CTL (9)
message and the
.B M_PCCTL
message is that the
.B M_PCCTL
is a high priority message, whereas the
.BR M_CTL (9)
message is a normal priority message.
Other than being a high priority message, with the ramifications that implies, the use
and procedures for the
.B M_PCCTL
message is the same as the
.BR M_CTL (9)
message.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The
.B M_PCCTL
message is documented only by
.IR UnixWare \(rg.
.[
uw7spg
.]
It is provided to assist porting of drivers and modules written for
.IR UnixWare \(rg
to
.BR Linux .
It might be necessary to define
.B _UW7_SOURCE
before including
.RB < sys/stream.h >
to expose this symbol.
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9),
.BR M_CTL (9),
.BR M_IOCTL (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_PCCTL
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
documents the
.BR M_PCCTL ,
.BR M_PCSETOPTS (9)
and
.BR M_TRAIL (9)
message types.
These message and message block types are provided for source compatibility with drivers
written for
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.[
uw7spg
.]
and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
It might be necessary to define
.B _UW7_SOURCE
before including
.RB < sys/stream.h >
to expose these symbols.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not use the
.BR M_PCCTL ,
.BR M_PCSETOPTS (9)
or
.BR M_TRAIL (9)
message types.
.IP \(em
.B M_PCCTL
is supported for compatibility with
.IR UnixWare \(rg.
.[
uw7spg
.]
Any use not described in this manual page is explicitly unsupported.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not use the
.BR M_PCCTL
message, and will treat the message as a high priority message of unknown type.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR uw7compat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documentation.
.[
uw7spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_PCCTL
message first appeared in
.IR UnixWare \(rg.
.[
uw7spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
