'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_PCRSE.9.man,v 0.9.2.8 2006/04/05 09:44:03 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:03 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: M_PCRSE.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:44:03  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M_PCRSE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_PCRSE
\- \fISTREAMS\fP priority reserved message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_PCRSE
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains unstructured data.
.PP
An
.B M_PCRSE
message is a high priority message that consists of one
.B M_PCRSE
message block followed by an unspecified number of message blocks of unspecified type.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_PCRSE
message is a high priority message reserved for internal use by driver and module writers.
.PP
The message format is one
.B M_PCRSE
message block followed by an unspecified number of message blocks of unspecified type.  The precise
form of the message must be determined according to the internal use of the message.
.PP
When the
Stream head
receives an
.B M_PCRSE
message, it discards it.
.\"
.B M_PCRSE
message cannot be generated directly by a user level process.
.B M_PCRSE
messages arriving at the
Stream head
will be discarded (ignored and freed).
.B M_PCRSE
messages can be generated and consumed by drivers and modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
In general, an
.B M_PCRSE
message should not be used where an
.B M_PCCTL (9)
message will do (except for the purpose of portability).
.B M_PCRSE
is not really intended for inter-module communication but for cases where a specialized,
non-portable communication facility is required.  This message can also be used to distinguish
messages that a driver or module places on its own queues (e.g, when passing messages across a
multiplexing driver).
.PP
Nevertheless, to support the passing of
.B M_PCRSE
message between modules, or between driver and module, when necessary and appropriate, the following
guidelines should be followed by drivers and modules with regard to the
.B M_PCRSE
message:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Intermediate modules that do not recognize an
.B M_PCRSE
message must pass the message along in the same manner as any high priority messages.  That
is, they are not subject to flow control and should not be queued.
.IP \(bu
A driver that does not recognize an
.B M_PCRSE
message, discards the message.
.IP \(bu
A driver or module processing an
.B M_PCRSE
message does so with regard is own internal definition.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_PCRSE
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B M_PCRSE
has a different constant value on
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.IR MacOT \(rg,
.[
macspg
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfspg
.]
and older versions of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will use
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
instead of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_PCRSE
message first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
