'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_READ.9.man,v 0.9.2.11 2008-04-28 12:53:46 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:46 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: M_READ.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.11  2008-04-28 12:53:46  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.10  2006/04/05 09:44:03  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M_READ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_READ
\- \fISTREAMS\fP read message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_READ
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains structured data.
.PP
An
.B M_READ
message is a high priority message that consists of a single
.B M_READ
message block.
.PP
The
.B M_READ
message block contains a single
.B unsigned long
value reflecting the
.I nbytes
argument to the
.BR read (2s)
system call.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_READ
message, (when requested using the
.B SO_MREADON
flag in a
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message to the
Stream head),
is generated by the
Stream head
just prior to blocking a process calling
.BR read (2s),
.BR getmsg (2),
or
.BR getpmsg (2s)
that has opened the
Stream
for blocking operation (i.e., neither
.B O_NONBLOCK
nor
.B O_NDELAY
flags are set with
.BR open (2s)
or
.BR fcntl (2))
due to an empty read queue at the
Stream head.
.PP
By default,
Stream heads
do no generate
.B M_READ
messages: the
.B SO_MREADON
flag in the
.I so_flags
field of an
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message must be sent to the
Stream head
by a driver or module to enable the generation of
.B M_READ
messages.
Generation of
.B M_READ
messages can be disabled again using the
.B SO_MREADOFF
flag.
.PP
The format of the
.B M_READ
message is a single
.B M_READ
message block containing the
.B unsigned long
value of the
.I nbyte
argument to the
.BR read (2s)
system call that generated the
.B M_READ
message.
For the
.BR getmsg (2)
or
.BR getpmsg (2)
system calls where the data part is being retrieved, the
.B unsigned long
value in the
.B M_READ
message corresponds to the
.I maxlen
member of the
.BR strbuf (5)
structure to which a pointer is passed in the
.I datap
argument to the
.BR getmsg (2)
or
.BR getpmsg (2s)
call.
.PP
.B M_READ
messages, when enabled, notify drivers and modules of the occurence of a read that blocks.  It is
also intended to support communication between
Streams
that are hosted on separate processors.
.PP
The use of the resulting
.B M_READ
messages by drivers and modules is developer dependent.  When processed, treatment of
.B M_READ
messages form part of the specification of the service interface.
.\"
.PP
.B M_READ
messages cannot be generated directly by a user level process (but indirectly by performing a read
operation).
.B M_READ
messages arriving at the
Stream head
are discarded (ignored and freed).
.B M_READ
messages should not be generated by drivers or modules.
.B M_READ
messages are consumed by the driver or module responding to them.
.\" ------------------
.\" ------------------
.\" ------------------
.\".PP
.\"Generated by the Stream head and sent downstream for a
.\".BR read (2s)
.\"system call if no messages are waiting to be read at the Stream head and if read notification has
.\"been enabled.  Read notification is enabled with the
.\".B SO_MREADON
.\"flag of the
.\".BR M_SETOPTS (9)
.\"message and disabled with the
.\".B SO_MREADOFF
.\"flag.
.\"The message content is set to the value of the
.\".I nbyte
.\"argument (the number of bytes to be read) in the
.\".BR read (2s)
.\"system call.
.\".PP
.\".B M_READ
.\"is intended to notify drivers and modules of the occurrence of a read.  It is also intended to
.\"support communication between
.\"Streams
.\"that reside in separate processors.  The use of the
.\".B M_READ
.\"message is developer dependent.  Modules may take specific action and pass on or free the
.\".B M_READ
.\"message.  Modules that do no recognize this message must pass it on.  All other drivers may or may
.\"not take action and then free the message.
.\".PP
.\"This message cannot be generated by a user-level process and should not be generated by a module or
.\"driver.  It is always discarded if passed to the Stream head.
.\" =================================================
.\" =================================================
.\".PP
.\"This message sends the number of bytes of a read request downstream when the following conditions
.\"are met:
.\".IP 1) \w'0)\(em'u
.\"A downstream driver or module has requested the generation of
.\".B M_READ
.\"messages using the
.\".B SO_MREADON
.\"flag in an
.\".BR M_SETOPTS (9)
.\"message.
.\".IP 2)
.\"No data is available at the Stream head.
.\".IP 3)
.\"The reader is about to sleep.
.\".PP
.\".B M_READ
.\"is generated by the Stream head and sent downstream for a
.\".BR read (2s)
.\"system call if no messages are waiting to be read at the Stream head and if read notification has
.\"been enabled.  Read notification is enabled with the
.\".B SO_MREADON
.\"flag of the
.\".BR M_SETOPS (9)
.\"message and disabled by use of the
.\".B SO_MREADOFF
.\"flag.
.\".PP
.\"The message content is set to the value of the
.\".I nbytes
.\"parameter (the number of bytes to be read) in the
.\".BR read (2s)
.\"call.
.\".PP
.\".B M_READ
.\"is intended to notify drivers and modules of the occurrence of a read.  It is also intended to
.\"support communication between
.\"Streams
.\"that reside in separate processors.  The use of the
.\".B M_READ
.\"message is developer dependent.  Modules may take specific action and pass on or free the
.\".B M_READ
.\"message.  Modules that do not recognize this message must pass it on.  All other drivers may or may
.\"not take action and then free the message.
.\"
.\".PP
.\".B M_READ
.\"messages cannot be generated directly by a user level process (but indirectly by performing a read
.\"operation).
.\".B M_READ
.\"messages arriving at the
.\"Stream head
.\"are discarded (ignored and freed).
.\".B M_READ
.\"messages should not be generated by drivers or modules.
.\".B M_READ
.\"messages are consumed by the driver or module responding to them.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
For a
.IR STREAMS -based
terminal in canonical mode, if the
.B ICANON
flag is on in
.IR c_lflag ,
canonical processing is performed.  If the
.B ICANON
flag is off, non-canonical processing is performed (see
.BR termios (7)
for more details).  Handling of
.BR VMIN / VTIME
in the
.I STREAMS
environment is somewhat complicated, because
.BR read (2s)
needs to activate a timer in the
.BR ldterm (4)
module in some cases; hence, read notification becomes necessary.
When a user issues an
.BR ioctl (2s)
to put
.BR ldterm (4)
in non-canonical (raw) mode,
the
.BR ldterm (4)
module sends an
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message to the Stream head to register read notification.  Further reads on the terminal file
descriptor will cause the Stream head to issue an
.B M_READ
message downstream and data will be sent upstream in response to the
.B M_READ
message.  With read notification, buffering of raw data is performed by
.BR ldterm (4).
It is possible to canonize the raw data, when the user has switched from raw to canonical mode.
However, the reverse is not possible.
.PP
To summarize, in non-canonical mode, the
.BR ldterm (4)
module buffers all data until a request for the data arrives in the form of an
.B M_READ
message.  The number of bytes sent upstream will be the argument of the
.B M_READ
message.
If the number is
.B FASTBUF
or less, the
.B M_READ
message can trasformed into an
.BR M_DATA (9)
message to pass the data.
.PP
The following guidelines are for processing of the
.B M_READ
message at drivers and modules:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If an intermediate module recognizes, but is not processing the
.B M_READ
message, it passes it downstream.  As a high priority message, the
.B M_READ
message is not subject to flow control and should not be queued.
.IP \(bu
If an intermediate module does not recognize the
.B M_READ
message, it passes it upstream or downstream as with any unrecognized high priority message: it is
not subject to flow control and should not be queued.
.IP \(bu
If a driver receives an
.B M_READ
message and does not recognize the message, it is discarded.  If the driver is not processing
read notifications, the message is discarded.
.IP \(bu
If an intermediate module or the driver recognizes the
.B M_READ
message and is processing the message, it treats the message as an indication that a read attempt
has been made that is blocked at the
Stream head
and consumes the message.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_READ
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B M_READ
has a different constant value on
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfspg
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.IR MacOT \(rg,
.[
macspg
.]
and older versions of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will use
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
instead of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_READ
message first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
