'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_STOPI.9.man,v 0.9.2.9 2008-04-28 12:53:46 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:46 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: M_STOPI.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2008-04-28 12:53:46  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2006/04/05 09:44:03  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M_STOPI 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_STOPI
\- \fISTREAMS\fP stop input message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_STOPI
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains unstructured data.
.PP
An
.B M_STOPI
message is a high priority message that consists of a single
.B M_STOPI
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_STOP
message tells a device to stop its input
.B M_STOP
and
.BR M_START (9)
are intended to produce momentary pauses in a device's input, not to turn devices on or off.
.PP
The message format is not defined by
.I STREAMS
and its use is developer dependent.  The
.B M_STOP
and
.BR M_START (9)
messages may be considered a special case of an
.BR M_CTL (9)
message.
The use and format of the
.B M_STOP
message forms part of a service interface defintion.
.\"
.PP
.B M_STOP
messages cannot be generated directly by a user level process.
.B M_STOP
messages arriving at the
Stream head
will be discarded (ignored and freed).
.B M_STOP
messages can be generated and consumed by drivers and modules.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR ldterm (4)
and
.IR STREAMS -based
terminals and pseudo-terminals send this message downstream to stop input of a half-duplex
terminal device.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
See
.BR ldterm (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR M_STARTI (9),
.BR M_START (9),
.BR M_STOP (9),
.BR ldterm (4),
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_STOPI
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B M_STOPI
has a different constant value on
.IR "SVR 3" ,
.[
svr3spg
.]
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.IR MacOT \(rg,
.[
macspg
.]
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.[
osfspg
.]
and older versions of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will use
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
instead of
.IR LiS .
.[
lis
.]
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_STOPI
message first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
