'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_TRAIL.9.man,v 0.9.2.9 2007/03/30 11:59:07 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2007/03/30 11:59:07 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: M_TRAIL.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.9  2007/03/30 11:59:07  brian
.\" - heavy rework of MP syncrhonization
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.8  2007/03/28 13:44:12  brian
.\" - updates to syncrhonization, release notes and documentation
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/05 09:44:03  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH M_TRAIL 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_TRAIL
\- \fISTREAMS\fP trail message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_TRAIL
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains no data.
.PP
An
.B M_TRAIL
message is a normal priority message that consists of a single
.B M_TRAIL
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
implementation extension.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_TRAIL
message is a
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR HPUX \(rg
specific message.
The
.B M_TRAIL
message is generated and sent upstream by a driver or module after an
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message to mark the end of data in the Stream.
.PP
When the message reaches the
Stream head,
after an
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message, the
Stream head expects no further data messages and
.BR read (2s)
will return zero
.RB ( 0 )
and
.BR getmsg (2)
will set each of its two length fields to zero
.RB ( 0 )
to indicate terminal hangup.  (Note that, in constrast, a terminal end-of-file is indicated by
setting the control part length to minus one
.RB ( -1 )
and the data part length to zero
.RB ( 0 ).)
.\"
.PP
.B M_TRAIL
messages cannot be generated directly be a user level process.
.B M_TRAIL
message arriving at a non-multiplexing driver should be discarded (ignored and
freed).
.B M_TRAIL
messages can be generated by drivers and modules.
.B M_TRAIL
messages arriving at the
Stream head
are consumed.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
This message is supposedly necessary because data could be queued in
intermediate modules when the
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message is issued upstream.  Because the
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message is a high-priority message, it could arrive at the
Stream head
ahead of data queued in intermediate modules.  If the
Stream head
read queue is also empty at this time, the
Stream head
could return a terminal hangup condition in response to
.BR read (2s)
or
.BR getmsg (2s)
while data is still outstanding.  (This is likely why some applications
programs attempt a subsequent
.BR read (2s)
after receiving terminal hangup.)
.PP
A driver or module uses the
.B M_TRAIL
message as follows:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
When the driver determines that a hangup condition has occured it
issues
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message toward the
Stream head.
.IP ""
For
.IR HPUX \(rg
compatibility, the driver sending an
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message expecting to follow it with an
.B M_TRAIL
message should place the two-byte special value,
.BR TRAIL_TOKEN ,
in the
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message.
.IP (2)
The driver then passed any queued data upstream toward the Stream head.
.IP (3)
The driver follows the queued data with a
.B M_TRAIL
message indicating the end of data.
.PP
Guidlelines for processing the
.B M_TRAIL
message are as follows:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Intermediate modules that do not recognize an
.B M_TRAIL
message must pass the message along in the same manner as any normal priority message.  That is, it
is subject to flow control and order must be maintained with respect to other normal priority
messages on the queue.
.IP \(bu
Modules and driver should only pass this message upstream.  Intermediate
modules may record the fact that a
.B M_TRAIL
message has transitted the module; however, the module must pass the
.B M_TRAIL
message along upstream.
.IP \(bu
An
.B M_TRAIL
message arriving at the write-side queue of a module should be passed along as
an unrecognized message type.  This permits
.B M_TRAIL
messages to be passed along a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4).
.IP \(bu
An
.B M_TRAIL
message arriving at the write-side queue of a driver should be discarded
(ignored and freed).
.IP \(bu
An
.B M_TRAIL
message arriving at the read-side queue on the lower side of a multiplexing
driver should be treated in a similar fashion as the Stream head.  That is,
the driver should expect no further data messages from the lower multiplexer
queue pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The necessity for this message type is questionable.  POSIX
.[
susv3
.]
says that:
.sp
.RS
\(lqIf a hangup occurs on the Stream from which messages are retrieved,
.BR getmsg (2s)
and
.BR getpmsg (2)
shall continue to operate normally ... until the Stream head read queue is empty.
Thereafter, they shall return 0 in the len members of ctrlptr and dataptr.\(rq
.RE
.sp
An alternative approach to the
.B M_TRAIL
message that acheives the same purpose is to require that all intermediate
modules receiving an
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message pass any queued data upstream before forwarding the
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message.
.PP
The
.B M_TRAIL
message is documented only by
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
and
.IR HPUX \(rg.
It is provided to assist porting of drivers and modules written for
.IR UnixWare \(rg
or
.IR HPUX \(rg
to
.BR GNU/Linux .
It might be necessary to define
.B _UW7_SOURCE
or
.B _HPUX_SOURCE
before including
.RB < sys/stream.h >
to expose this symbol.  Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR M_HANGUP (9),
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_TRAIL
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
and
.IR HPUX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
document the
.B M_TRAIL
data block type.
This data block type is provided for source compatibility with drivers
written for
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
and
.IR HPUX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
It might be necessary to define
.B _UW7_SOURCE
or
.B _HPUX_SOURCE
before including
.B sys/stream.h
to expose this symbol.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not use the
.B M_TRAIL
data block type.
.IP \(em
.IR HPUX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
documents that
.B M_TRAIL
message is only expected after a
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message by the
Stream head
when the preceding
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message contains the special 2-byte value,
.BR TRAIL_TOKEN ,
whose value is nowhere documented.  Otherwise, if a normal zero-length
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message is received by the
Stream head,
no following
.B M_TRAIL
message is expected.
.IP ""
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documents that a
.BR M_TRAIL
message is normally expected by the
Stream head,
and no
.BR TRAIL_TOKEN
value is documented.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers may always send a
.B M_TRAIL
message after sending a
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
and
.IR HPUX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_TRAIL
message first appeared in
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
and
.IR HPUX \(rg.
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
