'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: M_UNHANGUP.9.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/11/24 01:40:50 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/24 01:40:50 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH M_UNHANGUP 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B M_UNHANGUP
\- \fISTREAMS\fP undo hangup message
.\"
.\"
.SH FORMAT
.PP
The
.B M_UNHANGUP
message block is a
.BR datab (9)
structure and associated data buffer that contains no data.
.PP
An
.B M_UNHANGUP
message is a high priority message that consists of a single
.B M_UNHANGUP
message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B M_UNHANGUP
message is generated by a module or driver and passed along the
Stream
to the
Stream head
to undo the effects of a previous
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message.
.PP
The format of the
.B M_UNHANGUP
message is a single
.B M_UNHANGUP
message block containing no data.
.PP
When the
.B M_UNHANGUP
message arrives at the
Stream head,
the
Stream head
reverses the effects of any previous
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message.  That is, the
Stream head
clears the
.B STRHUP
bit.  This permits
.BR write (2s)
and
write-like operations,
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR putpmsg (2),
and
.BR I_INSERTFD (7)
.BR ioctl (2s),
to operate normally again.
See
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
for more information on th effects of the
.BR M_HANGUP (9)
message that are undone with
.BR M_UNHANGUP .
.\"
.PP
.B M_UNHANGUP
messages cannot be generated directly by a user level process, except by closing one side of a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4)
or the slave side of a
.IR STREAMS -based
pseudo-terminal.
.B M_UNHANGUP
messages arriving at a non-multiplexing drivers should be discarded (ignored and freed).
.B M_UNHANGUP
messages can be generated by modules and drivers.
.B M_UNHANGUP
messages arriving at the
Stream head
are consumed.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The
.B M_UNHANGUP
message is used normally for terminals and terminal-like interfaces that use primarly the
.BR read (2s)
and
.BR write (2s)
system calls for IO to the driver.
.PP
An example of such a terminal-like interface is the
.BR tirdwr (4)
module that converts a
.I "Transport Provider Interface (TPI)"
networking Stream to provide support to a primarily terminal-like
.BR read (2s)/ write " (2s)
interface.
See
.BR tirdwr (4)
for details.
.PP
The
.B M_UNHANGUP
message can be used in much the same circumstances an an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message with the
.B NOERROR
error number.  Indeed, the differences between an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message with only a write-side error of
.B NOERROR
are slight.
.PP
The following guidelines provide best practise for generation of the
.B M_UNHANGUP
message for modules and drivers:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
The
.B M_UNHANGUP
message is a high priority message and is not subjected to flow control.  Modules should pass the
.B M_UNHANGUP
message along directly from a
.B put
procedure and should not queue the message.
.IP \(bu
Modules and driver should only pass this message upstream.  Intermediate modules may record the fact
that a
.B M_UNHANGUP
message has transitted the module; however, the
module must pass the
.B M_UNHANGUP
message along upstream.
.IP \(bu
An
.B M_UNHANGUP
message arriving at the write-side queue of a module should be passed along as an unrecognized
message type.
This permits
.B M_UNHANGUP
messages to be passed along a
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4).
.IP \(bu
An
.B M_UNHANGUP
message arriving at the write-side queue of a driver should be discarded.
.IP \(bu
An
.B M_UNHANGUP
message arriving at the read-side queue on the lower side of a multiplexing driver should be
treated in a similar fashion as the
Stream head.
That is, the driver should cease sending messages
on the lower multiplexer queue pair.
.IP \(bu
Because of the asynchronous nature of the
.B M_UNHANGUP
message, use of the
.B M_UNHANGUP
message by a module or driver should be reserved for clearing disconnect conditions, where the
Stream
is has become usable again for transmission and no longer requires the
Stream
to be dismantled and recreated to reestablish communications.  Non-reconnect conditions should be
reported with the protocol of the service interface, or using the
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message with the
.B NOERROR
error number.
.IP \(bu
Fatal protocol errors are to be cleared with the
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message and not with the
.B M_UNHANGUP
message.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR M_HANGUP (9),
.BR write (2s),
.BR putmsg (2),
.BR putpmsg (2s),
.BR datab (9),
.BR msgb (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B M_UNHANGUP
.I STREAMS
message is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP STREAMS" ,
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Only
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfspg
.]
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
solspg
.]
document the
.BR M_UNHANGUP (9)
data block type.
This data block type is provided for source compatibility with drivers written
for
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
and
.IR Solaris \(rg,
and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.
It might be necessary to define
.B _OSF_SOURCE
or
.B _SUN_SOURCE
before including
.B sys/stream.h
to expose this symbol.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not use the
.BR M_UNHANGUP (9)
data block type.
.IP \(em
.B M_UNHANGUP
has a diffent constant value under
.IR Solaris \(rg
(but not
.IR OSF/1 \(rg).
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.[
osfspg
.]
.[
solspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B M_UNHANGUP
message first appeared in
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.[
solspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
