'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mexchange.9.man,v 0.9.2.7 2008-04-28 12:53:51 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:51 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: mexchange.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2008-04-28 12:53:51  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2006/04/05 09:44:13  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MEXCHANGE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mexchange
\- reallocate a message block with possible reuse of an existing message block.
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strsun.h>
.HP
mblk_t *\fBmexchange\fR(queue_t *\fIq\fR, mblk_t *\fImp\fR, size_t \fIsize\fR, int \fItype\fR, t_scalar_t \fIprimtype\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'primtype\ \ 'u
.I q
the write-side queue pointer passed to the write-side queue
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure from which
.BR mexchange ()
is called.
.TP
.I mp
a message pointer to a message block to be reused to generate the message.  This argument can be
.B NULL
if no message block to reuse is provided.
.TP
.I size
the size of the resulting message block.
.TP
.I type
the type of the resulting message block (e.g.
.BR M_PROTO (9)).
.TP
.I primtype
the primitive type of the message.  If this argument is a negative value, or if
.I size
is less than the size of
.BR t_scalar_t ,
then this argument will be ignored.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mexchange ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg
helper function that can be used to generate a message block, with possible reuse of an existing
message block.
.PP
.BR mexchange ()
can optionally be passed a queue pointer,
.IR q ,
representing the write-side queue from which to generate an
.BR M_ERROR (9)
reply with error number
.B ENOSR
should the allocation of a new message block fail.  If the passed in queue pointer,
.IR q ,
is
.B NULL
and an error occurs,
.BR mexchange ()
will fail silently and return
.BR NULL .
.PP
.BR mexchange ()
can optionally be passed a message block pointer,
.IR mp ,
referencing a message block that may be resued to generate the requested message block.
If the passed in message block pointer is
.BR NULL ,
then an attempt will be made to allocate a new message block with priority
.BR BPRI_LO .
If the passed in message block,
.IR mp ,
cannot be reused, it will be freed (using
.BR freemsg (9))
and an attempt will be made to allocate a new message block.
If the passed in message block is reused, yet has additional message blocks attached to
.I b_cont
pointer, then those additional message blocks will be freed.
The passed in message block,
.IR mp ,
will also not be used if the size of the message block is smaller than
.IR size ;
if the number of references to the data block is greater than one (that is, the message block has
been duplicated with
.BR dupb (9));
or, if the message block was allocated with
.BR esballoc (9).
In all cases where a passed in message block is not reused, it will be freed.  The caller must
relinquish its reference on the passed in message block(s).
When the message block is resused, it will be restored to a form as though it were just allocated
using
.BR allocb (9)
with size,
.IR size ,
and priority
.BR BPRI_LO .
.PP
The returned message block will have its
.I db_type
set to
.IR type ;
and the
.I b_wptr
will be adjusted to reflect the
.I size
of the message block.  If the passed in primitive type,
.IR primtype ,
is non-negative, and there is sufficient room provided by
.I size
to accomodate a
.BR t_scalar_t ,
then the primitive type will be set in the leading
.B t_scalar_t
of the data block.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR mexchange ()
is used when avoiding the generation of buffer calls using
.BR bufcall (9).
.PP
In general, buffer calls using
.BR bufcall (9)
should be used instead of the rather dubious practice of attempting to reuse message blocks.
This practice may permit a
.I STREAMS
driver or module to continue in the face of a system buffer leak that has exhausted the buffer pool;
however, it is still dubious.
.PP
.BR mexchange ()
has the even more noxious behavior that it is not possible for the caller to tell whether a
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message has been generated upstream or not when a
.RB non- NULL
.I q
pointer was passed and a
.B NULL
pointer is returned.  This makes it rather unusable for use in conjunction with
.BR bufcall (9),
(unless
.B NULL
is always passed as
.IR q ),
and requires the caller to record the fact that
.BR mexchange ()
returned
.B NULL
and take aditional actions.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR mexchange ()
succeeds, it returns a pointer to the allocated or resued message block;
when it fails, it returns
.BR NULL ,
and possibly generates a
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message upstream with
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR mexchange ()
fails when no message block is passed in, or the passed in message block,
.IR mp ,
is unusable, and a new message block could not be allocated.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mexchange ()
can be called from any non-interrupt context, but is normally called from a
.I STREAMS
driver or module write-side
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR mexchange ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller is responsible for ensuring exclusive access to the passed in
message block.  This is normally the case when
.BR mexchange ()
is called from a
.I STREAMS
driver or module write-side
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure and the passed in message pointer is that which
was passed into the procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mexchange ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function:
.B _SUN_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR merror (9),
.BR mexpandb (9),
.BR suncompat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mexchange ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR mexchange ()
is compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR mexchange ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function that should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Direct allocation and manipulation of the message blocks using standard
.I STREAMS
utility functions should be performed in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR mexchange ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR Solaris \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR Solaris \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR mexchange ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR Solaris \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR mexchange ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR suncompat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Solaris \(rg
SUNDDI documentation.
.[
soldoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR mexchange ()
first appeared in
.IR Solaris \(rg
2.5.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
