'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mi_open_comm.9.man,v 0.9.2.13 2005/03/30 13:38:51 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/03/30 13:38:51 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MI_OPEN_COMM 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mi_open_comm
\- \fISTREAMS\fP common minor device open utility
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _AIX_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.HP
int \fBmi_open_comm\fR(caddr_t *\fIstatep\fR, uint \fIsize\fR, queue_t
*\fIq\fR, dev_t *\fIdevp\fR, int \fIoflag\fR, int \fIsflag\fR, cred_t
*\fIcrp\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I statep
Specifies the address of a static pointer which will be used internally by
.BR mi_open_comm ()
to store the address of the module's list of open streams.  The pointer that
.I statep
references should be initialized to
.BR NULL
before the first call to
.BR mi_open_comm ()
with
.I statep
as an argument.
.TP
.I size
Specifies the amount of memory the module needs for its per-stream data.  It
is usually the size of the local structure which contains the module's
instance data.
.TP
.I q
A pointer to the module or driver's read queue,
obtained directly from
.BR qopen (9).
.TP
.I devp
A pointer to the device number,
obtained directly from
.BR qopen (9).
.TP
.I oflag
The open flags,
obtained directly from
.BR qopen (9).
.TP
.I sflag
The stream flags,
obtained directly from
.BR qopen (9).
Specifies how the
.I devp
argument is used as follows:
.RS
.TP
.B DEVOPEN
The minor device number specified by the
.I devp
argument is used.
.TP
.B MODOPEN
The
.I devp
argument is
.BR NULL .
This value should be used if
.BR mi_open_comm ()
is called from the open routine of a
.I STREAMS
module rather than a
.I STREAMS
driver.
.TP
.B CLONEOPEN
A unique minor device number (above 5) is assigned (minor numbers 0 through 5,
inclusive,
are reserved as special access codes).
.RE
.TP
.I crp
A pointer to the credentials of the opening user,
obtained directly from
.BR qopen (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR mi_open_comm ()
performs housekeeping during
.I STREAMS
driver or module open operations.
.BR mi_open_comm ()
is intended to be called by the driver or module
.BR qopen (9)
procedure.  It assigns a minor device number to the stream (as specified by
the
.I sflag
argument), allocates the requested per-stream data, and sets the
.I q_ptr
fields of the stream being opened.
.PP
Each call to
.BR mi_open_comm ()
must have a corresponding call to
.BR mi_close_comm (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR mi_open_comm ()
succeeds, it returns zero (0);
when it fails, it returns a non-zero error code.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR mi_open_comm ()
fails it returns a non-zero error code as follows:
.TP
.RB [ ENXIO ]
an argument to the call is invalid.
.TP
.RB [ EAGAIN ]
an internal structure could not be allocated and the call should be retried.
.PP
These error codes are selected so that they can be returned directly from
.BR qopen (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR mi_open_comm ()
can be called from User Context.
.BR mi_open_comm ()
is normally called from within a
.I STREAMS
module's
.BR qopen (9)
procedure (User Context).
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR mi_open_comm ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR mi_open_comm ()
is a
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
function:
.B _AIX_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_AIX
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following is an example of a module
.BR qopen (9)
procedure using
.BR mi_open_comm ():
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1
static caddr_t xxx_state = NULL;

typedef struct {
    dev_t my_dev;
    queue_t *rq;
    long some_data;
    long some_more_data;
} xxx_priv_t;

int
xxx_open(queue_t *q, dev_t *devp, int oflag, int sflag,
	 cred_t *crp)
{
    int err;
    xxx_priv_t *priv;

    err = mi_open_comm(&xxx_state, sizeof(xxx_priv_t),
		       q, devp, oflag, sflag, crp);
    if (err != 0) {
	return (err);
    }

    priv = q->q_ptr;

    priv->my_dev = *devp;
    priv->rq = q;
    priv->some_data = SOME_DATA_INITIALIZER;
    priv->some_more_data = SOME_MORE_DATA_INITIALIZER;

    return (0);
}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR qopen (9),
.BR mi_close_comm (9),
.BR mi_next_ptr (9),
.BR ddi_soft_state_zalloc (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR mi_open_comm ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR mi_open_comm ()
is compatible with
.IR AIX \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR mi_open_comm ()
is an
.IR AIX \(rg-specific
function and it should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
.IP \(em
Use of
.BR mi_open_comm ()
requires different include file sequences on
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
than on
.IR AIX \(rg.
.IR AIX \(rg
includes
.B <pse/mi.h>
and
.B <sys/stream.h>
only.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_open_comm ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR AIX \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR AIX \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR AIX \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR mi_open_comm ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR AIX \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR mi_open_comm ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR aixcompat (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR AIX \(rg
documentation.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.[
aixspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR mi_open_comm ()
first appeared in
.IR AIX \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
