'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: module_info.9.man,v 0.9.2.14 2005/12/02 12:05:14 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/12/02 12:05:14 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MODULE_INFO 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B module_info, module_info_t
\- \fISTREAMS\fR module information structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
struct module_info {
    ushort mi_idnum;	/* module id number */
    char *mi_idname;	/* module name */
    ssize_t mi_minpsz;	/* min packet size accepted */
    ssize_t mi_maxpsz;	/* max packet size accepted */
    size_t mi_hiwat;	/* hi water mark */
    size_t mi_lowat;	/* lo water mark */
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The following members correspond to
.IR "SVR 4.2 EFT"
.[
svr42spg
.]
members:
.TP \w'mi_maxpsz\(em'u
.I mi_idnum
The module identification number.  This number is unique across all
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.  It can be assigned by the module at
.I STREAMS
module initialization, or the module can request that the
.I STREAMS
executive assign a unique number.
.TP
.I mi_idname
The module name.  This name is unique across all
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers.  It must be assigned by the module at
.I STREAMS
module initialization.
.TP
.I mi_minpsz
The minimum packet size accepted.  This is the minimum size of a
.I STREAMS
message that will be accepted by the Stream head on write.
See
.BR queue (9)
for details.
.TP
.I mi_maxpsz
The maximum packet size accepted.  This is the maximum size of a
.I STREAMS
message that will be accepted by the Stream head on write.
See
.BR queue (9)
for details.
.TP
.I mi_hiwat
The high water mark for flow control.  For modules with a
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure,
this is the number of octets of queued messages beyond which the queue will be
considered flow controlled.
See
.BR queue (9)
for details.
.TP
.I mi_lowat
The low water mark for flow control.  For modules with a
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure,
this is the number of octets of queue messages beneath which the queue will
be considered no longer flow controlled and back-enabling will occur.
See
.BR queue (9)
for details.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The 
.B module_info
structure, defined in
.RB < sys/stream.h >,
is one of four
.RB ( 4 )
principal structures used in the definition of a
.I STREAMS
module or driver.
The principal defining structures are the
.BR streamtab (9),
.BR qinit (9),
.BR module_info ,
and
.BR module_stat (9)
structures.
.PP
The
.BR streamtab (9)
structure is the entry point into the defining structures for a module or driver.  It contains
pointers to two (module or driver) or four (multiplexing driver)
.BR qinit (9)
structures that define the upper read and write queues in a queue pair, as well as the lower read
and write queues in a queue pair for a multiplexing driver.
.PP
Each
.BR qinit (9)
structure contains function pointer members that provide the queue procedures
.RI ( qi_putp "(9) and " qi_srvp (9))
and module routines
.RI ( qi_qopen "(9), " qi_qclose "(9) and " qi_qadmin (9)).
Each
.BR qinit (9)
structure also points to a
.BR module_info
and optional
.BR module_stat (9)
structure.
.PP
A different
.BR module_info
structure can be associated with the read and write sides of both the upper and lower multiplex of a
module or driver (through a separate
.BR qinit (9)
structure).
Nevertheless, the
.B module_info
structure contains two members that are considered specific to the module or driver.  They are:
.IR mi_idnum ,
the module identification number of the module or driver; and,
.IR mi_idname ,
the name of the module or driver.
.PP
A different
.BR module_info
structure can be defined for each
.BR qinit (9)
structure defining the read- or write-side of the upper or lower multiplex of the module or driver,
meaning that a multiplexing driver can have associated with it four
.I mi_idnum
and four
.I mi_idname
members.
.PP
When a
.I STREAMS
module or driver is registered, whether one or any of these are used to represent a module or driver
by name or identifier is rather implementation specific.
Some registration mechanisms provide a separate way of specifying identifier and name (as an
argument, or otherwise outside the defining structures); some do not.  See more under
.RI \(lq COMPATIBILITY \(rq,
below.
.PP
The
.B module_info
structure also contains four members that are considered specific to the read-side or write-side of
a module or driver queue pair.  They are:
.IR mi_minpsz ,
the minimum packet size accepted by the associated queue;
.IR mi_maxpsz ,
the maximum packet size accepted by the associated queue;
.IR mi_hiwat ,
the high water mark for the queue (above which it is considered full);
and
.IR mi_lowat ,
the low water mark for the queue (beneath which it is considered no longer full).
.PP
Whenever
.I STREAMS
creates a queue pair forming an instance of the module or driver, or whenever a queue pair is linked
beneath a multiplexing driver, a pair of
.BR qinit (9)
structures referenced from the
.BR streamtab (9)
structure defining the module or driver are passed to
.BR setq (9)
to initialize the queue pair.
.BR setq (9)
copies the
.IR mi_minpsz ,
.IR mi_maxpsz ,
.IR mi_hiwat ,
and
.IR mi_lowat ,
members of the
.B module_info
structure attached to each
.BR qinit (9)
structure to the corresponding
.IR q_minpsz ,
.IR q_maxpsz ,
.IR q_hiwat ,
and
.IR q_lowat ,
members of the
.BR queue (9)
structure being initialized.
.PP
When a module or driver wishes to alter these packet and flow control variables, it does so in the
.BR queue (9)
and not the
.BR module_info
structure.  These member of the
.BR module_info
structure form part of the specification of the module or driver, and are always considered
read-only.
.PP
Flow control variables are described under
.RI \(lq "Flow Control" ,\(rq
on the
.BR queue (9),
manual page, and minimum and maximum packet sizes are described under
.RI \(lq "Packet Sizes" ,\(rq
also on the
.BR queue (9),
manual page.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
It is typical to only have one
.B module_info
structure defining a module or driver for several reasons:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
Only one module identification number and name are necessary to define a module or driver.
.IP (2)
Most service interfaces representing peer-to-peer protocols are symmetric in terms of packet size:
the minimum and maximum packet sizes for the read-side are also applicable to the write-side.
.IP (3)
Most service interfaces representing peer-to-peer protocols are also symmetric with respect to flow
control: the high and low water marks for the read-side are also applicable to the write-side.
.IP (4)
Even if these parameters are not symmetric, they can be changed for a given queue in the queue pair
using
.BR strqset (9)
when the queue pair is created or linked.
.IP (5)
The
.BR sc (4)
and
.BR scls (8)
utilities are only capable of displaying the contents of one
.BR module_info
structure.
.PP
See
.RI \(lq EXAMPLES \(rq,
below for examples that contain only one defining
.BR module_info
structure.
.PP
As with other defining structures,
.B module_info
structures are typically statically allocated within the kernel object that contains the
.I STREAMS
module or driver.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
In general, functions that operate on a module information structure can be called from any
context; however, most functions only need to operate in blocking process context.
.PP
Members of the
.BR module_info
structure are considered read-only after the module or driver has been registered until it is
de-registered.  Nevertheless, members can be read from any context, including module procedures,
call outs, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
Because the members of the
.B module_info
structure are treated as read-only, no special locking is required for this structure from
MP-safe functions.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Members of the
.B module_info
structure should not be accessed directly by
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers after the structure has been registered with the
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
executive.
.I STREAMS
modules or drivers should use the other facilities provided by
.BR strqget "(9) and " strqset (9)
for implementation and architecture independence.
.PP
The
.B module_info
structure is only a subset of the implementation structure used by the
.I STREAMS
scheduler.  Additional hidden fields are present in the implementation
structure.
.PP
Note that, although multiple
.B module_info
structures can be associated with a module or driver, the
.I STREAMS Configuration
.BR sc (4)
module and, therefore, the
.BR scls (8)
administrative command,
will only display one of them.  (The
.B module_info
structure displayed is that associated with the write side of the upper multiplexer.)
.\"
.\"
.\".SH IMPLEMENTATION
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.SS Example #1 - Module Definition
.PP
Following is an example of the defining structures, including
.BR module_info ,
used to define a module.  The example is an abbreviated version of the
.BR pipemod (4)
module from the
.I src/modules/pipemod.c
source file in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution directory:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  static struct module_info pipemod_minfo = {
 2      .mi_idnum = CONFIG_STREAMS_PIPEMOD_MODID,
 3      .mi_idname = CONFIG_STREAMS_PIPEMOD_NAME,
 4      .mi_minpsz = STRMINPSZ,
 5      .mi_maxpsz = STRMAXPSZ,
 6      .mi_hiwat = STRHIGH,
 7      .mi_lowat = STRLOW,
 8  };
 9  static struct qinit pipemod_qinit = {
10      .qi_putp = pipemod_put,
11      .qi_qopen = pipemod_open,
12      .qi_qclose = pipemod_close,
13      .qi_minfo = &pipemod_minfo,
14  };
15  static struct streamtab pipemod_info = {
16      .st_rdinit = &pipemod_qinit,
17      .st_wrinit = &pipemod_qinit,
18  };
19  static struct fmodsw pipemod_fmod = {
20      .f_name = CONFIG_STREAMS_PIPEMOD_NAME,
21      .f_str = &pipemod_info,
22      .f_flag = D_MP,
23      .f_kmod = THIS_MODULE,
24  };
\s+2\fP
.fi
.PP
Note that the module only uses one
.B module_info
structure, and only uses one
.BR qinit (9)
structure as well.  In accordance with common practise, the
.I mi_idname
member at
.B Line 3
and the
.I f_name
member at
.B Line 20
(used to register the module)
are the same.
.\"
.SS Example #2 - Multiplexing Driver Definition
.PP
Following is an example of the defining structures, including
.BR module_info ,
used to define a multiplexing driver.  The example is an abbreviated version of the
.BR mux (4)
driver from the
.I src/drivers/mux.c
source file in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution directory:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  static struct module_info mux_minfo = {
 2      .mi_idnum = CONFIG_STREAMS_MUX_MODID,
 3      .mi_idname = CONFIG_STREAMS_MUX_NAME,
 4      .mi_minpsz = STRMINPSZ,
 5      .mi_maxpsz = STRMAXPSZ,
 6      .mi_hiwat = STRHIGH,
 7      .mi_lowat = STRLOW,
 8  };
 9  static struct qinit mux_urqinit = {
10      .qi_srvp = mux_ursrv,
11      .qi_qopen = mux_open,
12      .qi_qclose = mux_close,
13      .qi_minfo = &mux_minfo,
14  };
15  static struct qinit mux_uwqinit = {
16      .qi_putp = mux_uwput,
17      .qi_srvp = mux_uwsrv,
18      .qi_minfo = &mux_minfo,
19  };
20  static struct qinit mux_lrqinit = {
21      .qi_putp = mux_lrput,
22      .qi_srvp = mux_lrsrv,
23      .qi_minfo = &mux_minfo,
24  };
25  static struct qinit mux_lwqinit = {
26      .qi_srvp = mux_lwsrv,
27      .qi_minfo = &mux_minfo,
28  };
29  static struct streamtab mux_info = {
30      .st_rdinit = &mux_urqinit,
31      .st_wrinit = &mux_uwqinit,
32      .st_muxrinit = &mux_lrqinit,
33      .st_muxwinit = &mux_lwqinit,
34  };
35  static struct cdevsw mux_cdev = {
36      .d_name = CONFIG_STREAMS_MUX_NAME,
37      .d_str = &mux_info,
38      .d_flag = D_MP,
39      .d_fop = NULL,
40      .d_mode = S_IFCHR | S_IRUGO | S_IWUGO,
41      .d_kmod = THIS_MODULE,
42  };
\s+2\fP
.fi
.PP
Note that the driver only uses on
.B module_info
structure, but uses four separate
.BR qinit (9)
structures for each of the read- and write-sides and upper and lower multiplexers.
Again, in accordance with common practise, the
.I mi_idname
member at
.B Line 3
and the
.I d_name
member at
.B Line 36
(used to register the driver)
are the same.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR queue (9),
.IR qi_putp (9),
.IR qi_srvp (9),
.BR streamtab (9),
.BR qinit (9),
.BR module_stat (9),
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.IR qi_qadmin (9),
.BR setq (9),
.BR strqget (9),
.BR strqset (9),
.BR pipemod (4),
.BR mux (4),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B module_info
structure is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
.[
svr42
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Some implementations (e.g.,
.IR LiS )
treat the
.I mi_idnum
and
.I mi_idname
members of multiple
.B module_info
structures used to define one module or driver in different ways.
.IP ""
As it is difficult to predict which of multiple
.I mi_idnum
or
.I mi_idname
definitions will be used by an implementation when multiple
.B module_info
structures define a module or driver, portable
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules will always assign the same value to each occurrence of
.I mi_idnum
and
.I mi_idname
in the defining structures.
.IP \(em
Some implementations (e.g.,
.IR LiS )
use the
.I mi_idnum
and
.I mi_idname
members when registering a module or driver with the
.I STREAMS
subsystem.
Others provide an independent name argument to registration function.
.IP ""
As it is difficult to predict which name will be used when registering a module (the name from the
argument or the name from the
.BR module_info
.I mi_idname
member), portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will register the module or driver under the same name and module identifier
that appears in the
.BR module_info
.I mi_idnum
and
.I mi_idname
members.
.IP \(em
Some implementations (e.g.,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfspg
.]
and
.IR MacOT \(rg
.[ \fR[\fB
macspg
.] \fR])
declare
.IR mi_minpsz " and " mi_maxpsz
as type
.BR ulong ,
and
.IR mi_hiwat " and " mi_lowat
as type
.BR long .
.IP ""
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 EFT MP" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B module_info
structure was introduced in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
