'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: mp-streams.9.man,v 0.9.2.24 2005/12/06 09:39:16 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/12/06 09:39:16 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MP-STREAMS 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B mp-streams
\- multi-processor \fISTREAMS\fR executive
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
.[
lfs
.]
when run on symmetrical multi-processor systems, and when compiled with kernel
configuration symbol
.B CONFIG_SMP
defined on symmetrical multi-processor (MP) or uniprocessor (UP), will execute
in
.B MP-STREAMS
mode.
.PP
This manual page provides additional information with regards to synchronization
and serialization of events within the
.I STREAMS
executive, for compatibility with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" ,
.[
svr42
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4 MP" .
.[
svr4
.]
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
also provide a synchronization framework based on perimeters for compatibility
with the
.IR Solaris \(rg
implementation of
.IR STREAMS .
.[
solspg
.]
.SS Configuration
.PP
Synchronization is specified by the module writer during configuration of a
.I STREAMS
module.
This is accomplished using flags and synchronization level definitions to the
module installation or registration function.  For compatibility with other
registration mechanisms based on
.I SVR 4 MP
.IR STREAMS ,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides the following flags and synchronization levels:
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Synchronization Flags
.TP
.B D_MP
Specifies that the module is MP-safe and observes a synchronization model
specified by the following flags.
The queue
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.IR qi_putp (9)
and
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedures, as well as asynchronous callbacks and call-outs of all kinds
can run concurrent, particularly in a multiprocessor environment.
Modules that set this flag must normally perform their own mutual exclusion or
critical section protections, and all procedures must be fully MP-safe.
.IP ""
Modules that do not specify
.B D_MP
are not MP-safe and will be run by default with synchronization at the module
level (single threaded).
.TP
.B D_MTPERQ
Specifies that the module has an inner perimeter and that synchronization at the
inner perimeter is per queue.  This is the same as the synchronization level
.BR SQLVL_QUEUE ,
below.
Only one
.I STREAMS
executive thread per queue will be permitted.  Other threads will wait until
a thread currently within the perimeter exits.
.IP ""
Normally in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
only one thread will execute a queue's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure at a given time.  However, normally queue
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedures, as well as all asynchronous callbacks, can run concurrent with the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure.
This inner perimeter causes
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedures to be run exclusive with
.IR qi_putp (9)
(unless
.B D_MTPUTSHARED
is also set), as well as exclusive with all synchronous callbacks.
.TP
.B D_MTQPAIR
Specifies that the module has an inner perimeter and that synchronization at
the inner perimeter is per queue pair.  This is the same as the
synchronization level
.BR SQLVL_QUEUEPAIR ,
below.
Only one
.I STREAMS
executive thread per queue pair will be permitted.  Other threads will wait
until a thread currently within the perimeter exits.
.TP
.B D_MTPERMOD
Specifies that the module has an inner perimeter and that synchronization at
the inner perimeter is per module.  This is the same as the synchronization
level
.BR SQLVL_MODULE ,
below.
Only one
.I STREAMS
executive thread per module will be permitted.  Other threads will wait until
a thread currently within the perimeter exits.
.TP
.B D_MTPUTSHARED
Specifies that the
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure will be permitted to enter the inner perimeter shared.  This means
that module
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedures must run fully re-entrant and multi-threaded.  Also, that
calling sequence of
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedures is not guaranteed by the
.I STREAMS
executive.
.TP
.B D_MTOUTPERIM
Specifies that an outer perimeter exists enclosing the module.  Threads at the
outer perimeter will be allowed to enter the module shared.
.TP
.B D_MTOCEXCL
Specifies that the
.IR qi_qopen (9)
and
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedures will be run exclusive at the outer perimeter.  That is,
.IR qi_qopen (9)
and
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedures will run single-threaded.
This flag is useful where the
.IR qi_qopen (9)
or
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedures of a module use data structures that are global to the module.
This is a
.IR Solaris \(rg
specific concept.
.[
solspg
.]
Other multi-processor
.I STREAMS
executives provide some utility functions that ensure that common data
structures are protected.  For example:
.BR mi_comm_open (9),
.BR mi_comm_close (9),
.BR streams_open (9),
.BR streams_close (9),
or even
.IR Solaris \(rg's
own
.BR ddi_get_soft_state (9)
mechanism.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Configuration Flags
.TP
.B STR_MPSAFE
Same as the
.B D_MP
flag, above.
.TP
.B STR_QSAFETY
Specifies that interrupt-safe callbacks are required.
.TP
.B STR_PERSTREAM
Specifies that the module agrees to per-Stream synchronization for non MP-safe
modules.
.TP
.B STR_Q_NOTTOSPEC
Specifies that the module is not to specification and runs under a process
context.  The module might sleep in its procedures.
.PP
Normally when modules are not MP-safe, the default is to use per-module synchronization for the
module (see
.B SQLVL_DEFAULT
below).  This means that only one thread is permitted into the entire module.  That is rather
restrictive and can cause difficulties when MP-safe modules are in the Stream.  (MP-safe modules
will run more aggressive and are likely to out-pace per-module synchronized modules, impairing the
performance of all Streams in which the module is included.)
.PP
Another solution is to run each of the non-MP-safe module's Streams at per-Stream synchronization,
where only a single thread is permitted per Stream, but multiple threads are permitted per module.
Unfortunately, other MP-safe modules in the Stream must be prepared to accept this situation, as
they may be relying on a different synchronization model within their modules.  Setting the
.B STR_PERSTREAM
flag for a driver or module indicates that, regardless of whether the driver or module is MP-safe or
not, that it accepts being run in per-Stream synchronization when a non-MP-safe driver or module is
in the same Stream.  As a Stream is built up and includes a non-MP-safe module, if all of the
modules and driver on the Stream have the
.B STR_PERSTREAM
flag set, then the Stream will be run with per-Stream synchronization.  If any driver or module on
the Stream does not have the
.B STR_PERSTREAM
flag set, the all non-MP-safe modules on the Stream (and any of their instances in other Streams)
will be forced to run in per-module synchronization.
.\"
.\"
.PP
.B Synchronization Levels
.TP
.B SQLVL_NOP
Specifies that the module is run without synchronization.  All synchronous
module entry points, call-outs and callbacks become asynchronous.  It is the
module's responsibility to provide synchronization or serialization as
required.
.TP
.B SQLVL_QUEUE
Specifies that the module is run with synchronization at the queue.  Only one
thread will be permitted to enter a given queue's procedures, however, another
thread will be permitted to enter the procedures of the other queue in the
queue pair.
This is useful when the read and write side of a module are largely
independent and do not require synchronization between sides of the queue
pair.
This level is equivalent to the
.B D_MTPERQ
flag, above.
.TP
.B SQLVL_QUEUEPAIR
Specifies that the module is run with synchronization at the queue pair.
Only one thread will be permitted to enter a given queue's procedures within a
given queue pair.  Where the read and write side of the queue pair shared the
same private structure (q->q_ptr), this provides MP protection of the common
data structure to all synchronous entry points.
This level is equivalent to the
.B D_MTQPAIR
flag, above.
.TP
.B SQLVL_DEFAULT
Specifies that the module uses the default synchronization scheme.  This is
the same a specifying
.BR SQLVL_MODULE .
.TP
.B SQLVL_MODULE
Specifies that the module is run with synchronization at the module.  Only one
thread of execution will be permitted within the module.  Where the module
does not share data structures between modules, this has a similar effect to
running on a UP system.
This is the default and works best for non-MP-safe modules written in
accordances with
.I STREAMS
guidelines.
This level is equivalent to the
.B D_MTPERMOD
flag, above.
.TP
.B SQLVL_ELSEWHERE
Specifies that the module is run with synchronization within a group of
modules.  Only one thread of execution will be within the group of modules at
a time.  The group is separately specified as a character string name.  This
permits a group of modules to run single threaded as though they are running
on a single processor, without interfering with the concurrency of other
module outside the group.  This can be important for testing and for modules
that implicitly share unprotected data structures.
.TP
.B SQLVL_GLOBAL
Specifies that the module is run with global synchronization.  This means that
only one
.I STREAMS
executive thread will be permitted to enter any synchronous module.  This makes
the entire
.I STREAMS
executive single threaded and is useful primarily for debugging.  This is the
same as
.I "\*(lqUniprocessor Emulation\*(rq"
on some systems, and reduces the
.I STREAMS
executive to running on a single processor at a time.  On multiprocessor
systems, the
.I STREAMS
executive will still run on multiple processors, it is just that it will be
running on only one of those processors at a given point in time.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS "Asynchronous Callbacks"
.PP
The following D3DK utilities use asynchronous callback functions:
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lbw(14n)0c0lssss.
timeout\fR(9):\ \(en\ :T{
the caller-supplied timeout callback function.
T}
dtimeout\fR(9):\ \(en\ :T{
the caller-supplied timeout callback function.
T}
itimeout\fR(9):\ \(en\ :T{
the caller-supplied timeout callback function.
T}
bufcall\fR(9):\ \(en\ :T{
the caller-supplied buffer callback function.
T}
esbbcall\fR(9):\ \(en\ :T{
the caller-supplied buffer callback function.
T}
esballoc\fR(9):\ \(en\ :T{
the caller-supplied free function.
T}
.TE
.PP
Asynchronous callback functions are not normally synchronized.
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides the following assurances with regard to asynchronous callbacks:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
The callback function will be invoked on the processor that initiated the
callback.  This ensures that the callback function will not execute until
after the function that invoked the callback returns or encounters a
preemption point.
.IP \(bu
If the
.B STR_QSAFETY
flag is set during configuration, asynchronous callback function invoked from
within the
.I STREAMS
executive (within a
.I STREAMS
queue procedure, call-out or callback function),
will be synchronized with the queue for which the callback is associated.  In
addition, local interrupts will be suppressed on the servicing processor.
.IP \(bu
Asynchronous callbacks invoked from outside the
.I STREAMS
executive (at user context outside the
.IR qi_qopen (9)
and
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedures, at soft interrupt other than STREAMS_SOFTIRQ and from within
interrupt service routines)
will never be synchronized with the
.I STREAMS
framework.
.IP \(bu
.IP \(bu
.IP \(bu
.IP \(bu
.PP
.SS "Asynchronous Callback Cancellation"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lbw(14n)0c0lssss.
untimeout\fR(9):\ \(en\ :T{
cancels a timeout callback function.
T}
unbufcall\fR(9):\ \(en\ :T{
cancels a buffer callback function.
T}
freemsg\fR(9):\ \(en\ :T{
calls a free routine callback function.
T}
.TE
.PP
Normally, the caller-supplied timeout callback function can execute at any time; however,
.BR timeout (9),
.BR itimeout (9),
.BR dtimeout (9)
uses CPU binding to ensure that the timeout callback will be executed on the
same processor that raised the timeout.  The callback function will not
execute until after
.BR timeout (9)
.BR itimeout (9),
.BR dtimeout (9),
returns and the calling thread encounters a preemption point.  Private locks
do not need to be held across the call to
.PP
The callback functions passed to
.BR timeout (9),
.BR dtimeout (9),
.BR itimeout (9),
.BR bufcall (9),
.BR esbbcall (9),
and
.BR esballoc (9)
are asynchronous callbacks.
The callback function can execute at any time, asynchronous with other
.I STREAMS
procedures.
When the callback function is executed, no synchronization is performed on any
module, Stream, queue pair or queue before calling the function.
.\"
.\"
.SS "Synchronous Entry Points"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lbw(14n)0c0ls.
qi_qopen\fR(9):\ \(en\ :the driver or module open routine
qi_qclose\fR(9):\ \(en\ :the driver or module close routine
qi_putp\fR(9):\ \(en\ :the driver or module put procedure
qi_srvp\fR(9):\ \(en\ :the driver or module service procedure
.TE
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
provides the following assurances with regard to synchronous entry points:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Per normal
.I STREAMS
semantics, only one
.IR qi_qopen (9)
or
.IR qi_qclose (9)
call will be permitted to execute at a time, per Stream.  However, for Streams that are
already open,
.IR qi_qopen (9)
and
.IR qi_qclose (9)
can run concurrent with
other synchronous entry points for the same Stream (once
.BR qprocson (9)
is called) and both synchronous and asynchronous callbacks.
.IP \(bu
.IR qi_qopen (9)
and
.IR qi_qclose (9),
can, however, run concurrent with any synchronous entry point
.RI ( qi_qopen (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9)
.IR qi_putp (9),
.IR qi_srvp (9)),
synchronous or asynchronous callback function, belonging to a separate Stream.
.IP \(bu
.IP \(bu
.IP \(bu
.\"
.\"
.SS "Synchronous Callbacks"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lbw(14n)0c0ls.
qtimeout\fR(9):\ \-\ :the timeout function
qbufcall\fR(9):\ \-\ :the buffer callback function
qwriter\fR(9):\ \-\ :the exclusive callback function
weldq\fR(9):\ \-\ :the weld complete callback function
unweldq\fR(9):\ \-\ :the unweld complete callback function
streams_put\fR(9):\ \-\ :the put function
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SS "Asynchronous Callback Cancellation"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lbw(14n)0c0ls.
untimeout\fR(9):\ \-\ :the \fBtoid_t\fP
unbufcall\fR(9):\ \-\ :the \fBbcid_t\fP
freeb\fR(9):\ \-\ :the message block
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SS "Synchronous Callback Cancellation"
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
lbw(14n)0c0ls.
quntimeout\fR(9):\ \-\ :the \fBtimeout_id_t\fR
qunbufcall\fR(9):\ \-\ :the \fBbufcall_id_t\fR
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
The following contexts are of interest:
.\"
.SS STREAMS Synchronous
Running under
.I STREAMS
and synchronized against the target queue.  A Stream head plumbing lock is held in the Stream to
which the queue belongs, or the
.B STRWOPEN
bit is held.
.PP
This is the case when the Stream is frozen, or when executing a queue put or service procedure, open
or close call-out, or a synchronous callback for the target queue.
.I q_next
pointers can be dereferenced for any queue in the Stream without being invalidated.
.\"
.SS STREAMS Asynchronous
Running under
.I STREAMS
but not synchronized against the target queue.
.PP
This is the case when executing a synchronous procedure, call-out or callback, for a queue in one
Stream and referencing a queue in another Stream.  It is also the case when an asynchronous callback
(one not referenced on a queue) is being executed.
.PP
Under the special case when running under
.I STREAMS
where the target queue belongs to a Stream linked to a lower multiplex, the context can be
considered as synchronous if the caller can suppress concurrent unlinking of the Stream.  This can
normally be performed with private locks taken within a put or service procedure of a multiplexing
driver.  But this is complex and best avoided by treating all such queues as asynchronous.
.\"
.SS Non-STREAMS Asynchronous
Not running under
.I STREAMS
and not synchronized against the target queue.
.PP
This is the case when calling any utility from outside of
.IR STREAMS .
This can be from process context, software interrupt, bottom-halves, tasklets,
.B Linux
timeouts, interrupt service routines, etc.
.PP
.RI Non- STREAMS
asynchronous contexts can be synchronized against a queue with
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR qwriter (9),
.BR streams_put (9),
.\"
.SS Validity and Exclusion
.PP
In a synchronous context, all
.I q_next
pointer dereferences for any queue in the Stream to which the synchronization queue belongs is
valid for the duration of the context.
In an asynchronous context, no assurances of the validity of
.I q_next
dereferences can be made.   This is of primary concern to
.I STREAMS
utilities that dereference a
.I q_next
pointer.
As discussed briefly above, lower multiplex Streams are of less concern that upper multiplex Streams
(that could be closed or have modules pushed or popped at any time).
.PP
When in a synchronous context with respect to a queue, a plumbing read lock is held for the Stream
head of the Stream to which the queue belongs.  Utilities that deference
.I q_next
without first taking a Stream head plumbing read lock can only be called in a synchronous context.
Utilities that acquire a Stream head plumbing read lock before dereferencing
.I q_next
can be called from any context, but would be wasteful and scale poorly if normally called from
synchronous context.
Utilities that do not dereference
.I q_next
and only affect the queue itself, take a queue write lock and can be called from any
context.
.PP
.B Validity/Exclusion for q
.PP
All
.I STREAMS
utilities that accept a queue pointer require validity of the queue pointer across the call, but not
exclusion: exclusion is accomplished within the utility with locks.
.PP
When in the synchronous context, any queue in the Stream can be passed to a utility function and it
is guaranteed valid.  However, in the asynchronous context, the caller is responsible for ensuring
the validity of the passed in queue pointer.  A pointer to a queue remains valid from the point that
the
.IR qi_qopen (9)
routine for a queue pair is entered, until just before the
.IR qi_qopen (9)
routine for the queue pair is exited.
Therefore, references to a queue that are acquired in the
.IR qi_qopen (9)
routine and released in the
.IR qi_qclose (9)
routine are guaranteed valid.
.PP
For example, an interrupt service routine that is established and passed a read queue pointer on
.IR qi_qopen (9)
for the queue pair, and if the ISR is disabled in the
.IR qi_qclose (9)
for the queue pair, releasing the read queue pointer,
then the read queue pointer is valid to be used in any
.I STREAMS
utility called during the ISR.
.PP
Pointers to queues in a Stream that is linked to a lower multiplex are guaranteed valid while the
Stream remains linked (the
.IR qi_qclose (9)
routine cannot be called until it is unlinked).  This is also true for
.I q_next
pointers, in that modules cannot be pushed or popped from a Stream linked to a lower multiplex until
it is unlinked.
Therefore, if a multiplexing driver can guarantee, by acquiring a private lock, that no Stream will
be unlinked until the lock is released, a pointer to any queue in any lower multiplex Stream will be
guaranteed valid, and the context can be considered synchronous for any Stream on the lower
multiplex.
Pointers to queues in an upper multiplex cannot be guaranteed in this way (because modules can be
pushed or popped from an asynchronous Stream at any time).
.PP
.I STREAMS
utilities that require exclusive access to the referenced queue, take their own write locks on the
queue.  Therefore, the caller does not have to ensure exclusion on the
.BR queue (9)
structure or any attached [e.g.,
.BR qband (9)]
structures.
.PP
.B Validity/Exclusion for mp
.PP
All
.I STREAMS
utilities that accept a message pointer require both validity of the message pointer across the
call, exclusion on the message block across the call, and exclusion on the data block or buffer of
the message altered by the utility across the call.
.PP
When in a synchronous context and the message has been passed to the queue's put procedure, removed
from the the queue by its service procedure, or freshly allocated (regardless of context), the
message pointer is guaranteed valid until passed to another put procedure.
.PP
Whenever a dereference of a message pointer is valid, the holder of the dereference has exclusive
access to the
.BR msgb (9)
message block structure.
If the
.BR datab (9)
data block structure has a reference count
.I db_ref
of one, the holder also has exclusive access to the data block.  If the holder has exclusive access
to the data block and there is no extended buffer attached to the data block (i.e., it was allocated
with
.BR allocb (9)
and not
.BR esballoc (9),
the holder also has exclusive access to the data buffer.
When
.I db_ref
is greater than 1, the easiest way to obtain exclusion from the data block and data buffer is to
copy the data block using utilities such as
.BR copyb (9)
or
.BR copymsg (9). 
.\"
.SS "Stream Ends and Multiplexing"
.PP
Passing of messages along a Stream using
.I q_next
pointers and the
.RI \(lq next \(rq
versions of the
.I STREAMS
utilities
.RB ( putnext (9),
.BR canputnext (9),
.BR bcanputnext (9),
.BR qreply (9))
is simple and straightforward.  These functions are always invoked from within one of queue pair's
procedures, and Stream synchronization is performed before entering the procedure within which they
are called.  These are
.I STREAMS
synchronous contexts.
.PP
.IR "Stream ends" ,
(Stream head, Driver, Upper Multiplexer, Lower Multiplexer), on the other hand are more problematic
because they interface with contexts within which Stream synchronization has not been performed.
These are asynchronous contexts and are more problematic.
.PP
A Stream end exists at the queue pair forming the Stream head, Driver, or Upper or Lower Multiplexer;
each is separately discussed:
.PP
Interaction between user process context and the Stream head is performed by the
specialized functions of the Stream head.  Modules and drivers do not normally need to provide any
of these procedures.
.\"
.SS Driver Read Queue
.PP
For the driver read queue there are two approaches as well.  Again, the first is not problematic,
the second is.
.PP
.B Approach #1.
.PP
Under the first approach, the driver read queue has both a put and a service procedure.
For driver read queues with service procedures, the non-MP approach used to be not even define a put
procedure, but to place messages directly on the read queue, using
.BR putq (9).
All actions would then be taken out of the driver read queue's service procedure.
Some variations, however, would use
.BR canputnext (9)
or
.BR bcanputnext (9)
when determining whether to use
.BR putq (9)
or
.BR putnext (9).
.PP
The pure
.BR putq (9)
variation is still a viable approach for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.BR putq (9)
does not dereference any
.I q_next
pointer, and takes the queue write locks necessary to protect the queue structure both inside and
outside of
.IR STREAMS .
A more portable MP approach is to provide a put procedure that simply does a
.BR putq (9)
and use the
.BR put (9)
call to invoke it.
.PP
Calling
.BR canputnext (9)
or
.BR bcanputnext (9)
however, does dereference a
.I q_next
pointer and are not MP-safe from an asynchronous context.
Drivers using these variations must define a put procedure and invoke it with
.BR put (9)
to enter a
.I STREAMS
synchronous context (the put procedure), before calling any of the
.RI \(lq next \(rq
versions of functions such as
.BR putnext (9),
.BR canputnext (9),
or
.BR bcanputnext (9).
.PP
If an ISR feeding a driver read queue with a service procedure needs to determine whether the queue
is full for a given band,
before calling
.BR put (9),
the ISR or bottom half can call
.BR canput (9)
or
.BR bcanput (9)
from outside of
.I STREAMS
synchronization. Under all implementation this seems acceptable as long as the driver read queue has
a service procedure (otherwise, these functions might try to scan upstream for a queue with a
service procedure, dereferencing
.I q_next
pointers along the way).
.PP
.B Approach #2.
.PP
The second approach defines a put procedure but no service procedure for the driver read queue.  The 
classical non-MP approach was to either call the put procedure directly using the
.I qi_putp
function pointer, or to not define a put procedure and make calls to
.BR putnext (9)
directly from the ISR or bottom half.
This approach cannot work on MP.
.BR putnext (9)
cannot be called from outside
.I STREAMS
synchronous context.
.PP
For MP, the proper technique is to define a put procedure and use
.BR put (9)
to invoke it.  Once within the put procedure,
.BR putnext (9)
can be called safely.
.PP
.B Summary.
.PP
All implementations of
.I STREAMS
use
.BR put (9)
to enter a
.I STREAMS
synchronous context and invoke the put procedure for the specified queue.  All driver read qeues
must define a put procedure, and
.BR put (9)
is the only way that messages should be passed to the queue from outside of
.IR STREAMS .
Driver must be aware, however, that the put procedure of the driver read queue might not be directly
invoked as a function call, but might be deferred for later execution in a different context.
On the other hand, when invoke directly from an ISR, the put procedure might run in ISR context.
Whether the driver read queue has a service procedure or not is according to its own design,
however, it is more portable to provide one and never call
.BR putnext (9)
from the driver read queue put procedure, only the service procedure.  This is because calling
.BR putnext (9)
will invoke the upstream module's put procedure in ISR context and on the ISR stack.  The upstream
module might not be prepared for this.
.\"
.SS Driver Write Queue.
.PP
The driver write queue can be implemented in one of two ways.  The first is not problematic.  The
second is.
.PP
.B Method #1.
.PP
In the first method, the driver write queue has both a put and a service procedure.  The put
procedure responds to critical or immediate messages and places all data messages onto the message
queue.  The service procedure removes messages from the message queue and outputs them to the hardware.
If there is too much data for the hardware to accept, the service procedure places the message back
on the queue and returns.  When a hardware interrupt makes it possible for the service procedure to
again write data, the transmit ISR enables the write queue by calling
.BR enableq (9)
or
.BR qenable (9).
.PP
A similar approach can be taken if the driver is a pseudo-device (software) driver rather than a
hardware device driver.  Instead of outputing to the hardware, the service procedure takes the data
from messages and passes in some manner to the external subsystem.
.PP
This first method is quite portable.
.PP
.B Method #2.
.PP
In the second method, the driver write queue has only a put procedure.  The put procedure responds
to critical or immediate messages and places all data messages onto the message queue.  The transmit
ISR (or a bottom half of the transmit ISR) directly performs the functions performed by the service
procedure in the first method above.
.PP
The routine uses
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR getq (9),
.BR flushq (9),
.BR flushband (9),
and
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR putbq (9),
in the same fashion as a service procedure would.  Under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR getq (9),
.BR flushq (9),
.BR flushband (9),
are safe to be called asynchronously on a Stream end.  The difference with this approach, however,
is that the method is only applicable to MP-safe drivers, because synchronization with the framework
is not peformed for an interrupt service routine.
.PP
This method relies on
.BR canputnext (9)
and
.BR bcanputnext (9)
setting the
.BR QWANTW
and
.BR QB_WANTW
bits on the driver write queue even though it does not have a service procedure.  This is provided
for under
.IR "SVR 4 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.BR canputnext (9)
and
.BR bcanputnext (9)
will operate on a queue that has no next queue regardless of whether it has a service procedure or
not.
.PP
This second method is not as portable
.IR "to other implementations" .
.PP
.B Summary.
.PP
Because the first method, for all intents and purposes, should perform just as well as the second
method, it is recommended that portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules only use the first method for driver write queues.  Under the first method, only
.BR enableq (9)
or
.BR qenable (9)
are called from outside of the
.I STREAMS
synchronous context, and the interface between Stream and ISR is simple.
.\"
.SS Upper Multiplexer Read Queue
.PP
Passing messages between upper multiplexer Streams, or from a lower multiplexer Stream to an upper
on is problematic, because the procedure passing the message is not in a synchronous context with
respect to the Stream to which messages are being passed.  Each upper multiplexer Stream, when used
in this fashion, should be treated like the driver read queue described above.  That is, each upper
multiplexer Stream must have a read queue put procedure, and that procedure must be invoked using
.BR put (9).
.BR canput (9)
and
.BR bcanput (9)
can be used on any upper multiplexer Stream read queue provided that the caller can ensure that the
passed in queue pointer will remain valid across the call (e.g, the Stream will not close).
.\"
.SS Upper Multiplexer Write Queue
.PP
The upper multiplexer write queue should follow the procedures and recommendations decribed for the
driver write queue.  The upper multiplexer write queue can be implemented with or without a service
procedure.
.\"
.SS Lower Multiplexer Write Queue
.PP
.\"
.SS Lower Multiplexer Read Queue
.PP
The lower multiplexer read queue should follow the procedures and recommendations decribed for the
driver write queue, except in an upside-down sense.  The lower multiplexer read queue can be
implemented with or without a service procedure.
.PP
.\"
.SS "Queue Handling Functions"
.PP
Whether a
.I STREAMS
utility needs to be called in on a frozen or thawed Stream, and whether it needs to be called from a
.I STREAMS
synchronous context, or can be called from an asynchronous context, is tabulated below.
.PP
.TS
tab(:);
ltbctbctbltbsss
ltbctctltsss.
_
Macros:Context:State:Notes
_
RD\fR(9):either:either:T{
These macros can be called from any context.  It does not matter whether the
Stream
is frozen by the caller or not.  The caller is responsible for the validity of the passed in
queue pointer
.I q
across the call.
T}
WR\fR(9):either:either:\^
OTHERQ\fR(9):either:either:\^
SAMESTR\fR(9):sync:either:
_
.T&
ltbctbctbltbsss
ltbctctltsss.
UP Functions:Context:State:Notes
_
appq\fR(9):either:frozen:T{
Can be called from any context.  The Stream should be frozen by the caller.
Takes ownership of the passed in message on success, not on failure.
T}
insq\fR(9):either:frozen:\^
putq\fR(9):either:thawed:\^
putbq\fR(9):either:thawed:\^

rmvq\fR(9):either:frozen:T{
These utilities dereference a
.I q_next
pointer in the Stream, and must be called from a synchronous context for in intermediate module, but
may be called in asynchronous context for a Stream end.  The Stream can also, however, be
frozen by the caller.
.BR rmvq (9)
must be called with the Stream frozen by the caller.
T}
getq\fR(9):either:thawed:\^
flushq\fR(9):either:thawed:\^
flushband\fR(9):either:thawed:\^

.T&
ltbctctltsss.
bcanput\fR(9):either:thawed:T{
These two can only be called from an
asynchronous context
when the queue that is the argument of the call has a
.IR qi_srvp (9)
service procedure.  Otherwise, they must be called from a
context synchronized on the queue.
T}
canput\fR(9):either:thawed:\^

canenable\fR(9):either:thawed:T{
Can be called from any context.  The Stream may be frozen by the caller.
T}
enableok\fR(9):either:thawed:\^
enableq\fR(9):either:thawed:\^
noenable\fR(9):either:thawed:\^
putctl\fR(9):either:thawed:\^
putctl1\fR(9):either:thawed:\^
putctl2\fR(9):either:thawed:\^
qenable\fR(9):either:thawed:\^
qsize\fR(9):either:either:\^

backq\fR(9):sync:thawed:T{
These utilities dereference a
.I q_next
pointer in the Stream, and must be called from a synchronous context.
The Stream can, however, be frozen by the caller.
.BR backq (9)
is the worst: if not called from a synchronous context, the return value cannot be considered
valid.
T}
qcountstrm\fR(9):sync:thawed:\^
qreply\fR(9):either:thawed:\^
_
.T&
ltbctbctbltbsss
ltbctctltsss.
MP Functions:Context:State:Notes
_
freezestr\fR(9):either:thawed:T{
These must be called from a thawed state and may be called from any context.
Both of these functions enter a synchronous context on
.IR q .
.BR put (9)
exits the synchronous context before returning;
.BR freezestr (9)
does not (it takes
.BR unfreezestr (9)
to exit the synchronous context).
T}
put\fR(9):either:thawed:T{
Can be called from any context.  The Stream may be frozen by the caller.
T}

qprocsoff\fR(9):close:thawed:T{
These must be called from a thawed state and must only be called from a
.IR qi_qopen (9)
or
.IR qi_qclose (9)
routine belonging to
.IR q .
T}
qprocson\fR(9):open:thawed:\^

bcanputnext\fR(9):either:thawed:T{
These utilities dereference a
.I q_next
pointer in the Stream,
and must be called from a
synchronous context.  The Stream can, however, be frozen by the caller.
T}
canputnext\fR(9):either:thawed:\^
putnext\fR(9):either:thawed:\^
putnextctl\fR(9):either:thawed:\^
putnextctl1\fR(9):either:thawed:\^
putnextctl2\fR(9):either:thawed:\^

strqset\fR(9):either:frozen:T{
Can be called from any context.  They take or return a queue state variable and, therefore, the
Stream must be frozen by the caller.
T}
strqget\fR(9):either:frozen:\^

unfreezestr\fR(9):\(en:frozen:T{
Must be called with the Stream frozen by the caller.
T}
.TE
.PP
Following are general rules for the use of these functions:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Bracketing a code sequence with
.BR freezestr (9)
and
.BR unfreezestr (9),
permits an otherwize asynchronous code sequence to run within an exclusive, synchronous context on
.IR q .
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will only call
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR strqget (9),
.BR strqset (9),
for a Stream frozen by the caller.
.IP \(bu
In general,
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR strqset (9),
.BR strqget (9),
must be called with the Stream, containing
.IR q ,
frozen by the caller.
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
permits all utilities
(except
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR qprocson (9),
.BR qprocsoff (9))
to be called on a Stream frozen by the caller, because it uses caller
recursive freeze locks, however, some implementations will lock the kernel.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not call any other queue utilities with the Stream frozen
by the caller.
.IP \(bu
Some implementations place restrictions on
.BR putq (9),
.BR putbq (9),
and utilities that place messages on the queue.
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
permits all utilities that place mesages on or remove message from a queue to be called from outside
a procedure of
.IR q ,
providing that the caller ensures the validity of
.I q
across the call.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will call utilities the places messages on the queue (other than
.BR putq (9))
only from within a procedure belonging to
.IR q .
.IP \(bu
Some implementations place restrictions on
.BR getq (9),
.BR flushq (9),
.BR flushband (9),
and queue utilities that remove messages from the queue.
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
permits all utilities that place mesages on or remove message from a queue to be called from outside
a procedure of
.IR q ,
providing that the caller ensures the validity of
.I q
across the call.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will call utilities the remove messages from the queue
only from within a procedure belonging to
.IR q .
.IP \(bu
For testing flow control and passing messages to a put procedure,
.BR canput (9),
.BR bcanput (9),
.BR put (9),
.BR putctl (9),
.BR putctl1 (9),
.BR putctl2 (9),
can be called from an asynchronous context and passed a queue from a Stream end queue pair.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will only call these functions
with a Stream end queue pointer,
.IR q .
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will also only call
.BR canput (9)
and
.BR bcanput (9)
and if
.I q
has a
.IR qi_srvp (9)
service procedure.
.IP \(bu
.BR canputnext (9),
.BR bcanputnext (9),
.BR putnext (9),
.BR putnextctl (9),
.BR putnextctl1 (9),
.BR putnextctl2 (9),
must be called from a
.I STREAMS
synchronous context on
.IR q ;
that is, from
.IR q 's
put or service procedure.
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
allows these to be called from an asynchronous context, and on a Stream frozen by the caller, as
well.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules can call these functions from an asynchronous context, but must ensure the
validity of the
.I q
pointer passed to them across the call.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SS Plumbing
.PP
Most plumbing operations performed on a Stream are performed from user process context (i.e., in
response to a system call).
One exception is
.BR welq (9)
and
.BR unweldq (9)
if they were to be called from a
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure instead of a
.IR qi_qopen (9)
or
.IR qi_qclose (9)
routine.
.PP
Plumbing operations include
.BR open (2s),
.BR close (2s),
.BR I_POP (7),
.BR I_PUSH (7),
.BR weldq (9),
.BR unweldq (9).
So, generally, any operation that invokes
.IR qi_qopen (9)
or
.IR qi_qclose (9)
to create or destroy the queue pair instance of a driver or module in a Stream, plus any welding of
Streams.
.BR I_LINK (7),
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR I_PUNLINK (7),
are not plumbing operations in the sense that they do not alter
.I q_next
pointers.
.PP
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.[
@PACKAGE_TITLE@
.]
provides a specialized plumbing reader-writer lock in the Stream head to protect the
.I q_next
pointers (i.e., the plumbing) in a Stream.  When the plumbing reader-writer lock is acquired for
read, any
.I q_next
pointer in the entire Stream can be dereferenced and the dereference will remain valid until the
lock is released.
The reader-writer lock is acquired for write by any plumbing operation, as was described above.
.PP
All queue procedures, call-outs, and synchronous callbacks associated are synchronized against a
queue that belongs to a Stream which has a Stream head.  Before the synchronous procedure, call-out
or callback is invoked, the
.I STREAMS
scheduler thread acquires the Stream head (associated with the synchronizing queue) plumbing
reader-writer lock for read.  This means that any queue procedure, call-out, and callback,
synchronized on a queue, can dereference any
.I q_next
pointer within the Stream to which the synchronizing queue belongs, without any special treatment.
.PP
Some other implementations (e.g.,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.[
hpuxspg
.]
place restrictions upon which queue pointers can be passed to which utility functions and which
utility functions can be called from within the
.I STREAMS
framework and which can be called from outside the
.I STREAMS
framework.
.PP
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
does not place such restrictions on most
.I STREAMS
utilities.  The only
.I STREAMS
utilities that are restricted are
.BR qprocson (9),
and
.BR qprocsoff (9),
which must be called from a
.IR qi_qopen (9)
open, or
.IR qi_qclose (9)
close routine for a driver or module.
The remaining utilities can be called from outside of
.I STREAMS
provided that the caller can ensure the validity of any passed in queue pointer,
.IR q ,
and exclusive access to any passed in message,
.IR mp .
.PP
The validity of a passed in queue pointer, or its
.I q_next
pointer is guaranteed by
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
whenever it (or its pair) was passed to a module procedure, callout, or synchronous callback.
Asynchronous callbacks passed
.I q
(or its pair) as an argument from a module procedure, callout, or synchronous callback, may
also use
.I q
or
.IR q->q_next .
.PP
From outside of a module procedure, callout, or callback that meets the above criteria, the caller
must ensure the validity of the passed in
.I q
pointer.  From an asynchronous callback associated with
.IR q ,
provided that the driver or module follows rules for cancelling asyncrhonous callbacks in the driver
or modules
.IR qi_qclose (9)
close routine,
.I q
is valid within the asyncrhonous callback.
.PP
Within a device, pseudo-device or multiplexing driver, either the driver's upper multiplex read
queue or the driver's lower multiplex write queue can be passed to most functions, provided that the
driver will not offer any reference to
.I q
to asynchronous  procedures before
.BR qprocson (9)
has returned, and will
cancel any reference to
.I q
available to these asychronous procedures (e.g., interrupt service routines) before the call to
.BR qprocsoff (9).
Also, the multiplexing driver can pass the
.I q
pointer of a lower mutliplexer write queue, provided that the driver can make the same assurances
with regard to the
.BR I_LINK (7),
.BR I_PLINK (7),
.BR I_UNLINK (7),
.BR I_PUNLINK (7)
operations.
.PP
Under
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
it is always safe to use the form,
.BI canput( q->q_next )
as well as
.BI canputnext( q ),
even
.BI put( q->q_next )
instead of
.BI putnext( q ),
from within a module procedure, callout, synchronous callback, or asynchronous callback invoked from
within a context synchronous on
.IR q .
From a purely asynchronous module procedure, callback, or subsystem outside of
.IR STREAMS ,
the
.I q->q_next
form is forbidden.  From these asynchronous contexts, use the
.RB \(lq next \(rq
versions of the functions when referring to the next queue instead.
.PP
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
provides maximum portability and compatibility in this regard.
.\"
.\"
.SS Freezing
.PP
In the Uni-Processor (UP) environment, it was sufficient to raise the system priority level
to ensure that no other queue procedures or thread were accessing the
Stream.
This was performed with
.BR splstr (9)
and
.BR splx (9).
.PP
In the Symmetric Multi-Processor (SMP) environment, it is also necessary to hold a lock to block
other processors from entering the critical section.
This is achieved by freezing the
Stream
with
.BR freezestr (9)
and thawing it with
.BR unfreezestr (9).
.RS
.ll -7n
.PP
.B Note:
when
.BR freezestr (9)
is called in a Uni-Processor (UP) environment, it is equivalent to
.BR splstr (9);
.BR unfreezestr (9),
.BR splx (9).
.ll +7n
.RE
.PP
Freezing a Stream results in local interrupts being suppressed and the Stream head reader-writer
freeze lock being held for write.  The Stream head reader-writer plumbing lock is also acquired for
read.  Thawing a Stream releases the read and write locks and restores local interrupts.
.PP
The Stream head plumbing reader-writer lock is acquired for write by any plumbing operation on the
Stream that would change
.I q_next
pointers on either queue pair.
Holding the Stream head plumbing read lock blocks any plumbing changes to the Stream.
.PP
The Stream head freeze reader-writer lock is acquired for read by any thread other than
the freezing thread entering a queue procedure
.RI [ qi_putp "(9) or " qi_srvp (9)].
After being acquired, the read lock is immediately released.  This stops any queue procedure from
being entered after the Stream is frozen by any thread other than the thread that froze the Stream,
but allows threads already executing in a queue procedure to proceed.  This is in accordance with
the descriptions for
.BR freezestr (9).
.PP
Many other implementations require that a Stream (and queue) be frozen by the caller with
.BR freezestr (9),
across a call to
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR strqget (9),
.BR strqset (9),
and require that a Stream (and queue)
.B not
be frozen by the caller with
.BR freezestr (9),
across a call to
.BR putq (9),
.BR putbq (9),
.BR getq (9),
.BR put (9),
.BR putnext (9),
.BR canput (9),
.BR canputnext (9),
.BR bcanput (9),
.BR bcanputnext (9),
and a host of others.
The precise functions vary from implementation to implementation.  See
.BR freezestr (9)
for more information.
.PP
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
permits all queue functions other than
.BR qprocson (9),
.BR qprocsoff (9),
.BR freezestr (9),
to be called on a Stream frozen by the caller.
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
also permits
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR strqget (9),
.BR strqset (9),
to be called on a thawed Stream provided that the caller provides some other mutual exclusion to
guarantee the validity of any arguments that reference a message on the queue.
For example, a driver's read queue can only have messages placed on the queue and taken off of the
the queue by a driver procedure.  With driver-private locks, it is possible to ensure that at a
given point in time the queue state is frozen even though the Stream is thawed.
.PP
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
provides maximum portability and compatibility in this regard.
.\"
.\"
.SS Queue Pointers
.PP
In the Uni-Processor (UP) environment, calling
.BR splstr (9)
is sufficient to ensure that a valid queue pointer
.I q
will not invalidate across a call to any function until
.BR splx (9)
was called.  This is not the case in the Symmetric Multi-Processor (SMP) environment.
.PP
In the SMP environment, another processor may be executing
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedures, or synchronous callbacks, concurrent with
.IR qi_qopen (9)
or
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedures.
Utilities called from the
.RI non- STREAMS
context (process context, asynchronous callbacks, soft interrupts, and interrupt service routines)
can execute concurrent with any procedures within the
.I STREAMS
environment
.RI ( qi_qopen (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.IR qi_putp (9),
.IR qi_srvp (9),
synchronous callbacks, buffer free routines).
.IR qi_qopen (9)
and
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedures, in particular, can cause
.I q_next
pointers to change, and
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedures can also result in the deallocation of queues.
The only
.I STREAMS
utilities that are provided that permit blocking of plumbing changes to the
Stream
are
.BR freezestr "(9), " unfreezestr (9)
and
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK "(9), " MPSTR_STPRELE (9)
(from the
.BR uw7compat (5)
module in the
.I STREAMS Compatibility Modules
.BR strcompat (5)
package.)
.\"
.\"
.SS Message Pointers
.PP
In both the UP and SMP environments, it is the responsibility of the caller to ensure exclusive
access to any message pointer
.I mp
passed to any message handling or queue handing function.  Exclusive access does not have to be
ensured to the data blocks associated with the messages, and in particular the
.I db_ref
member.
.\"
.\"
.SS Locking
.PP
Following is a discussion of the locking used in
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" :
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
performs reference counting on all
.I STREAMS
objects.  Reference counting ensures that objects are not destroyed until the last reference to them
is released.  This means that no reference will be invalidated while it is still being used.  There
are several primary
.I STREAMS
object upon which most other references depend:
the driver,
.BR cdevsw (9)
structure;
the module
.BR fmodsw (9)
structure;
the Stream head,
.BR stdata (9)
structure; the queue,
.BR queue (9)
structure;
the synchronization queue,
.BR syncq (9)
structure.
.PP
Of these, the most delicate and complicated references are the reference to the Stream head,
.BR stdata (9)
structure from the
.B inode
and
.B file
pointer.
.PP
To protect the reference to a Stream head,
.BR stdata (9)
structure, from the
.BR inode ,
the
.B inode
.I i_sem
semaphore
is acquired before referencing from, or invalidating the reference to, the Stream head.
This is also true for the
.B file
pointer
.IR private_data :
we hold the
.B inode
.I i_sem
semaphore
while acquiring a reference to the Stream head via the
.B file
pointer, and also hold the
semaphore
while clearing the
.I private_data
pointer.
(This means a fair amount of
semaphore
taking and releasing when performing system calls.
In newer kernels the
.B inode
.I i_lock
spinlock can use used instead of the semaphore to reduce the locking overheads.)
.PP
The Stream head has associated with it a queue pair.  While the Stream head reference is valid,
there always exists a Stream head queue pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.B MP-STREAMS
synchronization is a complex and difficult part of any
.I STREAMS
implementation.  Performance and implementation specifics can cause the behaviour of modules or
drivers invoking synchronization to differ from implementation to implementation.  Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will, and all new projects should, be written to be fully MP-safe and will set
the
.B D_MP
flag.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
The
.B MP-STREAMS
mechanism has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B MP-STREAMS
mechanism is compatible with
.I "SVR 4.2 MP"
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.I "SVR 4.1 MP"
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
Synchronization mechanisms for
.I STREAMS
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 4.1 MP" .
.\"
.\"
.TI
