'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: MPSTR_QRELE.9.man,v 0.9.2.4 2004/04/17 18:52:13 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/04/17 18:52:13 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MPSTR_QRELE 9 "$Date: 2004/04/17 18:52:13 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS SVR4 DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B MPSTR_QRELE
\- release a queue from exclusive access
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SVR4_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "void MPSTR_QRELE(queue_t *" q ", pl_t" priority );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP \w'priority\(em'u
.I q
A pointer to the
.B queue (9)
structure to release from exclusive access.
.TP
.I priority
The interrupt priority level to restore.
A value of minus one (-1) indicates that the interrupt priority level is not to be restored.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
releases an exclusive (write) lock on the
.BR queue (9)
structure specified by the
.I q
argument and restores the interrupt priority level
specified by the
.I priority
argument.
If the
.I priority
argument is minus one (-1),
no interrupt priority level will be restored.
The lock must have previously been acquired using
.BR MPSTR_QLOCK (9),
and the
.I priority
argument is normally the interrupt priority level return in the call to
.BR MPSTR_QLOCK (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
is used to release exclusive accecss to a
.BR queue (9)
structure that was acquired for the purpose of manipulating members of the
structure and related
.BR qband (9)
structures
or
.BR msgb (9)
messages stored on the queue.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
is always successful.  Calling
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
with invalid or uninitialized arguments, or for a
.I q
that has not been previously acquired using
.BR MPSTR_QLOCK (9)
will yeild indeterminate results.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
can be called from any context, except interrupt service routines.  If other
processors are spinning on awaiting aquiring the lock, one processor will
succeed.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
is MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
is a
.IR "SVR 4.2" -specific
function:
.B _SVR4_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SVR4
defined.
.PP
See
.BR MPSTR_QLOCK (9)
for additional notices.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
unnests the
.I q_rwlock
member of the
.BR queue (9)
structure specified by
.IR q ,
based on the owning
.B task_struct
task structure as specified by the
.IR q_owner " and " q_nest
members.
In addtion,
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
restores the interrupt mask specified by the
.I priority
argument.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
See
.BR MPSTR_QLOCK (9)
for an example use of
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ().
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR MPSTR_QLOCK (9),
.BR MPSTR_STPLOCK (9),
.BR MPSTR_STPRELE (9),
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR unfreezestr (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\ \(em\ 'u
.B Linux
does not have interrupt priority levels in the same sense as
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
The
.I priority
argument of
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
corresponds to interrupt flags returned by
.BR MPSTR_QLOCK (9)
rather than
.BR spl .
See
.BR splx (9)
for more information.
.IP \(em
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
is implemented as an
.B extern inline
function.
.I "SVR 4.2 MP"
and systems based on
.I "SVR 4.2"
implement
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
as a C preprocessor macro.
.IP \(em
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
is implemented as a recursive (nesting) release, meaning that it can be called
on a queue multiply locked by
.BR MPSTR_QLOCK (9).
Some systems based on
.I SVR 4.2 MP
implement
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
as a non-recursive release.
.IP \(em
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for the purpose of porting
.IR "SVR 4.2"
drivers to
.IR Linux \(rg.
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR "SVR 4.2"
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR "SVR 4.2"
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.[
uslspg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR MPSTR_QRELE ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
