'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: msgdsize.9.man,v 0.9.2.18 2005/12/02 12:05:14 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/12/02 12:05:14 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MSGDSIZE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B msgdsize
\- calculate the size of the data in a \fISTREAMS\fP message
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int msgdsize(mblk_t *" mp ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I mp
the message within which to count data bytes.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR msgdsize ()
returns the number of data bytes in the
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks contained in the message pointed to by
.IR mp .
The number of byte considered to be contained in an
.BR M_DATA (9)
block are the number of bytes between the
.I b_rptr
and
.I b_wptr
pointers.  If
.I b_rptr
is greater than or equal to
.IR b_wptr ,
then the
.BR M_DATA (9)
message block is considered to contain zero bytes.  Otherwise the number of bytes contained is the
pointer difference:
.IR "(b_wptr - b_rptr)" .
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR msgdsize ()
is not a very useful function.  It is used by the Stream head only to implement the
.BR I_NREAD (7)
intput-output control command.
.BR msgdsize ()
is not very useful because all data blocks after the initial data block in a message are considered
to be of type
.BR M_DATA (9)
regardless of their actual data type (see
.BR M_DATA (9)).
Therefore, the second of the following two statements is
faster
(see
.BR msgsize (9)):
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2\
size = msgdsize(mp);

size = (DB_TYPE(mp) == M_DATA) ? msgsize(mp) : msgsize(mp->b_cont);
\s+2\fP
.fi
.PP

.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR msgdsize ()
returns the number of bytes contained in
.BR M_DATA (9)
blocks in in the message.
Upon failure,
.BR msgdsize ()
returns zero (0).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR msgdsize ()
fails if the message pointer
.I mp
is
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR msgdsize ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures, callouts, callbacks, soft
interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR msgdsize ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller must ensure exclusive access to the passed in
message. See
.BR mp-streams (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR msgdsize ()
will fail and potentially panic the kernel if the passed in message pointer,
.IR mp ,
that is invalid.  If the passed in message pointer,
.IR mp ,
is
.BR NULL ;
however, the function will return zero (0).
.PP
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not pass
.BR msgdsize ()
a
.B NULL
or invalid message pointer as an argument.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR msgdsize ()
is implemented as an
.B extern inline
for speed, as follows:
.RS
.nf
\fC\s-1
__EXTERN_INLINE size_t msgdsize(mblk_t *mp)
{
    size_t size = 0;
    for (; mp; mp = mp->b_cont)
        if (mp->b_datap->db_type == M_DATA)
            if (mp->b_wptr > mp->b_rptr)
                size += mp->b_wptr - mp->b_rptr;
    return (size);
}
\s+1\fP
.fi
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR msgsize (9),
.BR xmsgsize (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR msgdsize ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR msgdsize ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4dk
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR msgdsize ()
is a widely implemented
.I STREAMS
function that is compatible across many of the implementations discussed here.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers may use this function.
.IP \(em
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
places limits on the maximum size of a message block.
.BR msgdsize ()
does not.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will use
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
instead of
.IR LiS .
.\".IP \(em
.\"Symbol
.\".BR lis_msgdsize ()
.\"is provided for compatibility to
.\".IR LiS .
.\"See
.\".BR liscompat (9).
.\".BR lis_msgdsize ()
.\"calls
.\".BR msgdsize ()
.\"directly.
.\".IP ""
.\"Portable
.\".I STREAMS
.\"modules and drivers will not directly access
.\".I LiS
.\"symbols.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR msgdsize ()
appears as part of
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR msgdsize ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
