'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: msgpullup_physreq.9.man,v 0.9.2.10 2005/05/14 08:34:27 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/05/14 08:34:27 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MSGPULLUP_PHYSREQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B msgpullup_physreq
\- pull up bytes in a \fISTREAMS\fP message to meet physical requirements
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #define _UW7_SOURCE
.HP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.PD 0
.HP
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.PD
.HP
mblk_t *\fBmsgpullup_physreq\fR(mblk_t *\fImp\fR, size_t \fIlen\fR, physreq_t *\fIprp\fR);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I mp
the message to pull up.
.PD 0
.TP
.I len
the number of bytes to pull up.
.TP
.I prp
physical requirements for the pulled up message.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
will copy and align
.I len
bytes from the message pointed to by
.I mp
into a new message, if possible, whose pointer is returned.
If the passed in message pointed to by
.I mp
contains more bytes than specified by
.IR len ,
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
will copy the remaining bytes onto the end of the new message.
If the passed in message pointed to by
.I mp
contains less than
.I len
bytes,
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
fails and returns
.BR NULL .
If
.I len
is specified as -1,
all the bytes of the passed in message pointed to by
.I mp
will be concatenated, copied and aligned into the new message.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
This is a non-portable function and is largely deprecated.  For better approaches, where only the
data buffer has physical memory requirements, allocate the memory with a suitable memory allocator,
copy the data with
.BR bcopy (9),
and then use
.BR esballoc (9)
to acquire a message header.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
returns a pointer to the new message.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
fails and returns
.B NULL
when the number of bytes in the passed in message pointed to by
.I mp
is less than
.IR len ;
and when allocation for the new message fails.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
is MP-safe.  It is the caller's responsibility to ensure exclusive access to
the passed in message.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
is a
.IR UnixWare \(rg-specific
function:
.B _UW7_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_UW7
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_UW7_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
fails if the requested physical requirements do not match those that already exist for the message
block.  Otherwise,
.BR msgpullup (9)
is called.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR msgpullup (9),
.BR uw7compat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
does not perform alignment of the copied in bytes and will leave bytes in
place without proper alignment.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
is compatible with
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
is a fake that simply returns
.B NULL
if the requested physical requirements are not already met and then calls
.BR msgpullup (9).
Avoid use of this function if at all possible.
.IP \(em
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
is an
.IR UnixWare \(rg-specific
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The more common
.BR msgpullup (9)
function should be used in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR UnixWare \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR UnixWare \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR UnixWare \(rg
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR UnixWare \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR uw7compat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR UnixWare \(rg.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.[
uw7spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR msgpullup_physreq ()
first appeared in
.IR UnixWare \(rg.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
