'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: msgpullup.9,v 0.9.2.1 2004/02/29 19:07:38 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/02/29 19:07:38 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so openss7.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database openss7.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MSGPULLUP 9 "$Date: 2004/02/29 19:07:38 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B msgpullup
\- pull up bytes in a \fISTREAMS\fR message
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *msgpullup(mblk_t *" mp ", int " len );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I mp
the message to pull up.
.TP
.I len
the number of bytes to pull up.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR msgpullup ()
will copy and align
.I len
bytes from the message pointed to by
.I mp
into a new message, if possible, whose pointer is returned.
If the passed in message pointed to by
.I mp
contains more bytes than specified by
.IR len ,
.BR msgpullup ()
will copy the remaning bytes onto the end of the new message.
If the passed in message pointed to by
.I mp
contains less than
.I len
bytes,
.BR msgpullup ()
fails and returns
.BR NULL .
If
.I len
is specified as -1,
all the bytes of the passed in message pointed to by
.I mp
will be concatenated, copied and aligned into the new message.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR msgpullup ()
returns a pointer to the new message.
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR msgpullup ()
returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR msgpullup ()
fails and returns
.B NULL
when the number of bytes in the passed in message pointed to by
.I mp
is less than
.IR len ;
and when allocation for the new message fails.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR msgpullup ()
can be called from any context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR msgpullup ()
is MP-safe.  It is the caller's responsibilty to ensure exclusive access to
the passed in message.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR msgpullup ()
is a DKI replacement for
.BR pullupmsg (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR pullupmsg (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR msgpullup ()
does not perform alignment of the copied in bytes and will leave bytes in
place without proper alignment.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR msgpullup ()
is source-level compatible with SVR 4.2 DDI/DKI,
.[
svr42
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
and LiS
.[
LiS
.]
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(bu
The LiS implementation of
.BR msgpullup ()
allocates blocks for the new message before it check to see whether the number
of bytes in the passed in message is less than
.IR len.
This is inefficient if it is normally the case that the passed in message has
less bytes than
.IR len .
.IP \(bu
.BR msgpullup ()
does not yet proper align bytes (see
.I \*(lqBUGS\*(rq
above).
SVR 4.2 DKI,
.IR Solaris \(rg
and LiS properly align pulled up bytes.
.PP
Symbol
.BR lis_msgpullup ()
is provided for binary compatibility with LiS.  See
.BR lisbcm (9).
.PP
Binary compatibility with SVR 4.2 DDI/DKI and
.IR Solaris \(rg
is not guaranteed.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR 4.2 DDI/DKI,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR msgpullup ()
first appeared in SVR 4 DDI/DKI.
.[
svr4dk
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
