'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: msgpullup.9.man,v 0.9.2.14 2005/04/27 00:32:52 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/04/27 00:32:52 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MSGPULLUP 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B msgpullup
\- pull up bytes in a \fISTREAMS\fP message
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *msgpullup(mblk_t *" mp ", int " len );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I mp
the message to pull up.
.PD 0
.TP
.I len
the number of bytes to pull up.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR msgpullup ()
will copy and align
.I len
bytes from the message pointed to by
.I mp
into a new message, if possible, whose pointer is returned.
If the passed in message pointed to by
.I mp
contains more bytes than specified by
.IR len ,
.BR msgpullup ()
will copy the remaining bytes onto the end of the new message.
If the passed in message pointed to by
.I mp
contains less than
.I len
bytes,
.BR msgpullup ()
fails and returns
.BR NULL .
If
.I len
is specified as -1,
all the bytes of the passed in message pointed to by
.I mp
will be concatenated, copied and aligned into the new message.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR msgpullup ()
returns a pointer to the new message.
Upon failure,
.BR msgpullup ()
returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR msgpullup ()
fails and returns
.B NULL
when the number of bytes in the passed in message pointed to by
.I mp
is less than
.IR len ;
and when allocation for the new message fails.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR msgpullup ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR msgpullup ()
is MP-safe.  It is the caller's responsibility to ensure exclusive access to
the passed in message.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR msgpullup ()
is a
.I SVR 4.0 MP DDI/DKI
replacement for
.BR pullupmsg (9).
.PP
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will use
.BR msgpullup ()
in place of
.BR pullupmsg (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR pullupmsg (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR msgpullup ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR msgpullup ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.I SVR 4.0 MP
.[
svr4dk
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
do not document this function
.[
aixdoc
.]
.[
osfdoc
.]
.[
uxpdoc
.]
(nor a bunch of other
.I SVR 4.0 MP STREAMS
functions for that matter).
.IP \(em
The
.I LiS
implementation of
.BR msgpullup ()
allocates blocks for the new message before it check to see whether the number of bytes in the
passed in message is less than
.IR len.
This is inefficient if it is normally the case that the passed in message has less bytes than
.IR len .
.IR Solaris \(rg
states that
.BR msgpullup ()
is a \*(lq\)DKI-compliant replacement for the older
.BR pullupmsg (9)
routine,\*(rq that is \*(lq\)not included in the DKI and will be removed form the system in a future
release\*(rq and that users \*(lq\)are strongly encouraged to use
.BR msgpullup ()
instead of
.BR pullupmsg (9).\*(rq
.[
soldoc
.]
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documentation indicates that
.IR "SCO OpenServer" \(rg
is stuck with
.BR pullupmsg (9).
.[
uw7doc
.]
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documentation
indicates that
.BR pullupmsg (9)
was only applicable to
.IR "SVR 4.0" ,
.IR "SVR 4.1 ES" ,
and
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
That is, no multiprocessor (MP) releases support
.BR pullupmsg (9).
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documentation also indicates that use of
.BR pullupmsg (9)
can panic a multiprocessor (MP)
.IR UnixWare \(rg " 7
system, and yet is suitable for a multiprocessor (MP)
.IR "SCO OpenServer" \(rg
system.
.[
uw7doc
.]
So, although
.BR msgpullup ()
is recommended by
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
instead of
.BR pullupmsg (9),
.BR pullupmsg (9)
is by far the more popular interface and has the widest support.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers may use
.BR msgpullup (9)
instead of
.BR pullupmsg ().
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
supports both in an MP-safe way.
.IP \(em
.IR UnixWare \(rg
indicates that the memory for data buffers returned by both
.BR pullupmsg (9)
and
.BR msgpullup ()
(through
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" )
are suitable for worst-case DMA and are phsysically contiguous.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
also exhibits this behaviour.  Physical contiguous data buffers, aligned on a layer 1 cache boundary
and suitable for worst-case DMA are allocated by
.BR pullupmsg (9)
but not
.BR msgpullup ().
Physical contiguous data buffers, not necessarily aligned on a layer 1 cache boundary and not
necessarily suitable for worst-case DMA are allocated by
.BR msgpullup ().
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will no make any assumptions about the phsyical contiguity or suitability for
worst-case DMA of data buffers allocated via
.BR msgpullup ().
.IP \(em
Symbol
.BR lis_msgpullup ()
is provided for compatibility with
.IR LiS .
See
.BR liscompat (9).
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR msgpullup ()
first appeared in
.I "SVR 4.0 MP"
.[
svr4dk
.]
and
.I "SVR 4.2 MP"
.[
usldk
.]
as a replacement for
.BR pullupmsg ().
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
