'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: msgphysreq.9.man,v 0.9.2.12 2006/04/05 09:44:14 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:14 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: msgphysreq.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.12  2006/04/05 09:44:14  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MSGPHYSREQ 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B msgphysreq
\- cause a message block to meet physical requirements
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #define _UW7_SOURCE
.HP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.PD 0
.HP
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.PD
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *msgphysreq(mblk_t *" mp ", phsyreq_t *" prp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I mp
a pointer to a message block that will be made to conform to the physical memory requirement.
.PD 0
.TP
.I prp
a pointer to a
.B physreq_t
structure that describes the physical memory request.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR msgphysreq ()
creates, if necessary, and returns a message that contains the information in the message
passed in argument
.I mp
and whose data buffers meet the physical memory requirements in the
.I prp
argument.
.PP
Data will be copied into new data buffers and new message blocks and data blocks allocated as
required.  Message blocks belonging to the passed in message,
.IR mp ,
that are copied into the new message are freed.  Message blocks in the existing message whose data
buffers meet the physical requirements will be linked into the new message.  The message pointer
returned might or might not be the same as the passed in message pointer,
.IR mp ,
depending upon the suitability of the data buffers in the passed in message.
.PP
The
.I prp
argument is a specification of the physical requirements and points to a
.B physreq
structure, with members as follows:
.sp
.nf
typedef struct physreq {
	paddr_t phys_align;
	paddr_t phys_boundary;
	unsigned char phys_dmasize;
	unsigned char phys_max_scgth;
	unsigned char phys_flags;
} physreq_t;
.fi
.TP
.I phys_align
Specifies the alignment of the physical memory.
.TP
.I phys_boundary
Specifies the boundary within which the memory must reside.
.TP
.I phys_dmasize
Specifies the DMA size, if requested.  When not requested, this member should be set to zero (0).
When requested,
.I phys_dmasize
should be set to one of the following values:
.RS
.TP
.B 0
DMA is not used or not requested.
.PD 0
.TP
.B 24
24-bit addresses suitable for 24-bit (ISA) devices.
.TP
.B 32
32-bit addresses suitable for 32-bit (PCI, EISA, or MCA) devices.
.TP
.B 64
64-bit addresses suitable for 64-bit (PCI-X, AGP+) devices.
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I phys_max_scgth
Specifies the maximum number of scatter gather elements.
.TP
.I phys_flags
Specifies flags associated with the memory and may be zero or more of the following:
.RS
.TP
.B PREQ_PHYSCONTIG
This flag requests that the memory in the buffer be made to reside contiguously in physical memory.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
This is a non-portable function and is largely deprecated.  For better approaches, where only the
data buffer has physical memory requirements, allocate the memory with a suitable memory allocator
and then use
.BR esballoc (9)
to acquire a message header.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
When
.BR msgphysreq ()
succeeds, it returns a pointer to a message block that meets the physical requirements;
when it fails, it returns
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR msgphysreq ()
fails when 
a message block to the requested physical requirements cannot be created.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR msgphysreq ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR msgphysreq ()
is MP-safe when called correctly.  It is the caller's responsibility to ensure the exclusive use of
the referenced message block and physical requirements structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR msgphysreq ()
is a
.IR UnixWare \(rg-specific
function:
.B _UW7_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose this symbol.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_UW7
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_UW7_MODULE
defined.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR msgphysreq ()
fails if the requested physical requirements do not match those that already exist for the message
block.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR uw7compat (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR msgphysreq ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR msgphysreq ()
is compatible with
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR msgphysreq ()
is a fake that will simply return
.B NULL
if the passed in message block does not meet the specified physical requirements.
Do not use this function if it can at all be avoided.
.IP \(em
.BR msgphysreq ()
fails an returns
.B NULL
if the requested physical requirements do not match those that already exist for the message block.
.IP \(em
.BR msgphysreq ()
is an
.IR UnixWare \(rg-specific
function and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
The more common
.BR esballoc (9)
function should be used in its stead.
.IP \(em
.BR msgphysreq ()
is provided for source level compatibility with
.IR UnixWare \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR UnixWare \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR UnixWare \(rg
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR msgphysreq ()
only provides functionality comparable to
.IR UnixWare \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR msgphysreq ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR uw7compat (9)
and
.BR STREAMS (9)
for more compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR UnixWare \(rg.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.[
uw7spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR msgphysreq ()
first appeared in
.IR UnixWare \(rg.
.[
uw7doc
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
