'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: msgsize.9.man,v 0.9.2.16 2006/04/05 09:44:14 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:14 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: msgsize.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.16  2006/04/05 09:44:14  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH MSGSIZE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B msgsize
\- calculate the size of the message blocks in a \fISTREAMS\fP message
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int msgsize(mblk_t *" mp ");
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I mp
the message to count message bytes.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR msgsize ()
counts the size of all of the blocks in the message pointed to by
.IR mp ,
regardless of type.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR msgsize ()
is used internally to count the size of messages place on and taken off of
message queues.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR msgsize ()
returns the number of bytes in the message pointed to by
.IR mp .
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR msgsize ()
returns zero (0).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR msgsize ()
fails and returns zero (0) when
the message pointer
.I mp
is
.BR NULL .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR msgsize ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures, callouts, callbacks, soft
interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves) and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR msgsize ()
is MP-safe.
It is the responsibility of the caller, however, to ensure validity of reference and exclusive
access to the passed in message.
See
.BR mp-streams (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR msgsize ()
is a
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
soldoc
.]
specific helper function provided by the base
.I "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
package.  The
.I STREAMS Compatibility Modules
.BR strcompat (5)
package is not required for this symbol to be access.
It is not necessary to define
.B _SUN_SOURCE
or to include
.RB < sys/strsun.h >
to access this symbol.
However, portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not access this function.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR msgdsize (9),
.BR xmsgsize (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR msgsize ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR msgsize ()
is compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
soldoc
.]
and
.I LiS
.[
LiS
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR msgsize ()
is an implementation specific utility provided by
.IR Solaris \(rg
where it is made accessible by including the
.RB < sys/strsun.h >
header file.
.BR msgsize ()
is also provided by
.IR LiS .
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not access this function.
.IR Solaris \(rg
compatible
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules may access this function.
.IP \(em
The
.IR Solaris \(rg
implementation
can produce invalid sizes because it does not check whether
.I b_wptr
is less than
.IR b_rptr .
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
does not reproduce this
.IR Solaris \(rg
behaviour and will treat negative length message blocks as zero length.
.IP ""
.IR Solaris \(rg
compatible
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will never pass messages where the difference between
.I b_wptr
and
.I b_rptr
pointers is negative.
.IP \(em
.BR msgsize ()
counts the size
.RI ( b_wptr  " - " b_rptr )
of all blocks in the message.
.I LiS
counts the absolute size
.RI ( db_lim " - " db_base )
of all blocks in the message.
This is particularly broken verion of the
.IR Solaris \(rg
helper function.
The worst problem with this is that
.I LiS
uses this broken
.BR msgsize ()
to do all queue and queue band accounting: meaning that queue counts have nothing to do with the
size of message blocks, just the size of data buffers.  That is completely inconsistent with any
.I STREAMS
implementation and does not conform to
.IR "SVR 4" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.IP ""
.IR Solaris \(rg
compatible
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will use
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
instead of
.IR LiS .
.\".IP \(em
.\"Symbol
.\".BR lis_msgsize ()
.\"is provided for compatibility with
.\".IR LiS .
.\"See
.\".BR liscompat (9).
.\".IP ""
.\"Portable
.\".I STREAMS
.\"drivers and modules will not directly access
.\".I LiS
.\"symbols.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Solaris \(rg
documentation.
.[
soldoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR msgsize ()
appears as an exported function in
.IR LiS .
.[
LiS
.]
.PP
.BR msgsize ()
first appeared in
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.[
soldoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
