'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: msgutil.9.man,v 0.9.2.3 2004/04/19 02:58:19 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/04/19 02:58:19 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH MSGUTIL 9 "$Date: 2004/04/19 02:58:19 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH "NAME"
.B msgutil
\- \fISTREAMS\fR message utilities
.\"
.\"
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.sp
.PD 0
.HP
.BI "int msgsize(mblk_t *" mp );
.HP
.BI "int msgdsize(mblk_t *" mp );
.HP
.BI "int xmsgsize(mblk_t *" mp );
.HP
.BI "int adjmsg(mblk_t *" mp ", int " len );
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *" mp " = copyb(mblk_t *" mp );
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *" mp " = copymsg(mblk_t *" mp );
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *" mp " = dupb(mblk_t *" mp );
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *" mp " = dupmsg(mblk_t *" mp );
.HP
.BI "void linkb(mblk_t *" mp );
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *" mp " = unlinkb(mblk_t *" mp );
.HP
.BI "int pullupmsg(mblk_t *" mp ", int " len );
.HP
.BI "int msgpullup(mblk_t *" mp ", int " len );
.HP
.BI "mblk_t *" mp " = rmvb(mblk_t *" mp ", mblk_t *" bp );
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
This man page describes the STREAMS message utility functions.
.TP
\fBmsgsize\fR
calculates and returns the aggregated sizes of all of the
message blocks in the message block chain pointed to by \fImp\fR (in bytes).
.TP
\fBmsgdsize\fR
calculates and returns the aggregated sizes of all of the
\fBM_DATA\fR blocks in the message block chain pointed to by \fImp\fR (in
bytes).
.TP
\fBxmsgsize\fR
calculates and the returns the aggregated sizes of all of the
blocks in the message block chain which are of the same block type as the
first block in the chain pointed to by \fImp\fR (in bytes).
.TP
\fBmsgsize\fR
reads the available space (in contrast to used space) in each
message block for the calculation.
\fBmsgdsize\fR and \fBxmsgsize\fR reads the used space (in contrast to
available space) in each message block for the calculation.
.TP
\fBadjmsg\fR
trims the absolute value of \fIlen\fR bytes from a message.

If \fIlen\fR is positive, \fIlen\fR bytes will be trimmed from the head of the
message.  If \fIlen\fR is greater than the aggregate sizes of the blocks of
the same type at the beginning of \fImp\fR, \fBadjmsg\fR fails.

If \fIlen\fR is negative, \fI-len\fR bytes will be trimmed from the tail of
the message.  If \fI-len\fR is greater than the aggregate sizes of the blocks
of the same type at the end of \fImp\fR, \fBadjmsg\fR fails.

Any message blocks whose resulting sizes are zero are not removed from the
message, but have their \fIb_rptr\fR set to their \fIb_wptr\fR.
.TP
\fBcopyb\fR
.TP
\fBcopymsg\fR
.TP
\fBdupb\fR
.TP
\fBdupmsg\fR
.PP
.TP
\fBlinkb\fR
.TP
\fBunlinkb\fR
.PP
.TP
\fBpullupmsg\fR
.TP
\fBmsgpullup\fR
.PP
.TP
\fBrmvb\fR
Remove the message block pointed to by \fIbp\fR from the message pointed to by
\fImp\fR.  When successful, it returns a pointer to the modified message, or
\fBNULL\fR if \fIbp\fR was the only block in \fImp\fR.  When \fIbp\fR is not
in message \fImp\fR, \fBrmvb\fR fails and returns \fI(mblk_t *)-1\fR.
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
\fBmsgsize\fR, \fBmsgdsize\fR and \fBxmsgsize\fR return the aggregated sizes
of the message blocks counted in bytes.  Only positive values will be
returned.  If there are no messages of the particular type, the function
returns zero.

\fBadjmsg\fR returns non-zero on success and zero on failure.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ERRORS"
.PP
\fBmsgsize\fR, \fBmsgdsize\fR and \fBxmsgsize\fR always succeed.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
Message utlity functions can be called from any context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
Message utility functions are MP-safe; however, it is the responsibility of
the caller to ensure exclusive access to the passed in message(s).  Exclusive
access to a message can normally be ensured by taking the message off of a
message queue as part of a
.BR srv (9)
procedure, or working with a message passed into a
.BR put (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR msgsize (9),
.BR msgdsize (9),
.BR xmsgsize (9),
.BR adjmsg (9),
.BR copyb (9),
.BR copymsg (9),
.BR dupb (9),
.BR dupmsg (9),
.BR linkb (9),
.BR unlinkb (9),
.BR pullupmsg (9),
.BR msgpullup (9),
.BR rmvb (9)
.\"
.\"
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
These functions should probably return \fIsize_t\fR instead of \fIint\fR.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
These message functions are source-level compatible with SVR 4.2 DDI/DKI,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
and
LiS
.[
LiS
.]
with the exceptions noted in the individual manual pages.
.BR lis_ -prefixed
symbols are provided for binary compatibility with LiS.  See
.BR lisbcm (9).
Binary compatibility to SVR 4.2 DDI/DKI and
.IR Solaris \(rg
is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
SVR 4.2 DDI/DKI,
.[
usldk
.]
SVID,
.[
svid
.]
XID.
.[
xbd5
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
Most of these message utility functions first appeared
in SVR 4 DDI/DKI.
.[
svr4dk
.]
.\"
.\"
.TI
