'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: OTHERQ.9.man,v 0.9.2.15 2005/11/29 10:46:27 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/29 10:46:27 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH OTHER 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B OTHERQ
\- return the other queue of a \fISTREAMS\fR queue pair
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "queue_t *OTHERQ(" q );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
one queue in the pair for which to return the other queue in the pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR OTHERQ ()
returns the other queue associated with the queue pair indicated by the queue
pointer
.IR q ,
regardless of whether
.I q
points to the read queue or the write queue of the queue pair.
.PP
.BR OTHERQ ()
is typically and often used to find the opposite queue from a pointer to one of
the queues in a queue pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR OTHERQ ()
returns a pointer to the other queue of the queue pair referenced by
.IR q .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR OTHERQ ()
always succeeds.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR OTHERQ ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.PP
.BR OTHERQ ()
is MP-safe; however,
the caller is responsible for the validity of the reference
.IR q .
References to
.I q
from a procedure, call-out or callback predicated on the queue pair to which
.I q
belongs
are guaranteed valid.
The caller must guarantee validity from call-outs, callbacks, soft interrupts
and interrupt service routines not predicated on the queue pair to which
.I q
belongs.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
.BR queue (9)
structures are always allocated in pairs as an array of two
.BR queue (9)
structure elements.  The first structure in the array is always the read queue and has
.B QREADR
set in
.IR q_flag ;
the second, the write queue, with
.B QREADR
clear.
Because of this relationship between queues in a pair,
.BR OTHERQ ()
is easily implemented as a macro as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1\
#define OTHERQ(q) ((q->q_flag & QREADR) ? (q+1) : (q-1))
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
If the passed in queue pointer,
.IR q ,
is invalid, the result is undefined.
.PP
If the passed in queue pointer,
.IR q ,
is
.BR NULL ,
a kernel panic (oops) will occur.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR RD (9),
.BR WR (9),
.BR SAMESTR (9),
.BR queue (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR OTHERQ ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR OTHERQ ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4" .
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
Under many implementations,
.BR OTHERQ ()
is implemented as a macro.  Under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
.BR OTHERQ ()
is implemented as an
.B extern inline
function.
.IP ""
In general, portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should not be affected if any
.I STREAMS
utility is implemented as either a macro or a function.
.IP \(em
Because the size and members of the
.BR queue (9)
structure vary from implementation to implementation,
binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR OTHERQ ()
appears as part of
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR OTHERQ ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" ,
.[
svr3spg
.]
where it was implemented as a macro.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
