'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: physreq.9.man,v 0.9.2.3 2004/03/14 08:56:36 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/14 08:56:36 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH PHSYREQ 9 "$Date: 2004/03/14 08:56:36 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B physreq, physreq_t
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _UW7_SOURCE
.br
.B #define _LIS_SOURCE
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1
typedef struct physreq {
        paddr_t phys_align;
        paddr_t phys_boundary;
        uchar_t phys_dmasize;
        uchar_t phys_max_scgth;
        uchar_t phys_flags;
} physreq_t;
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
.TP
.I phys_align
When non-zero, specifies a (power of 2) alignment for the beginning of the
block.
.TP
.I phys_boundary
When non-zero, specifies a (power of 2) boundary which the memory is not
permitted to span.
.TP
.I phys_dmasize
The size of the allowable DMA address.
.I phys_dmasize
can be one of the following values:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
nb2l.
0:DMA not used.
24:ISA device.
32:PCI, EISA, MCA device.
64:64bit device.
.TE
.TP
.I phys_max_sgth
Specifies the maximum number of scatter gather buffers.
.TP
.I phys_flags
Additional request flags.
.I phys_flags
can be a bitwise OR of zero or more of the following flags:
.sp
.TS
tab(:);
lb2l.
PREQ_PHYSCONTIG:request physically contiguous memory.
.TE
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR physreq _t
structure describes the phsyical memory requirements for an allocation of for
testing and adjusting the suitability of message blocks.
.PP
The following allocators use the
.BR physreq _t
structure:
.PP
.PD 0
.HP
.BR allocb_physreq "(9) \- allocate a STREAMS message block with physical requirements
.HP
.BR msgphysreq "(9) \- adjust a STREAMS message to conform to physical requirements
.HP
.BR msgpullup_physreq "(9) \- pull up a STREAMS message with physical requirements
.HP
.BR lis_allocb_physreq "(9) \- allocate a STREAMS message block with physical requirements
.PD
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
Functions that operate on a physical request structure can be calle from any
context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
Read-only MP-safe structure without locks.  The caller must guarantee the
integrity of the data structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
LfS
.]
allocator functions that accept a
.BR physreq _t
structure largely ignore the members of the structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR allocb_physreq (9),
.BR msgphysreq (9),
.BR msgpullup_physreq (9),
.BR lis_allocb_physreq (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.BR physreq _t
structure is compatible with
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and
.IR LiS ,
with the following considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\ \(em\ 'u
The
.BR physreq _t
structure is specific to
.IR UnixWare \(rg
and is only provided
when
.B _UW7_SOURCE
is defined before DDI include files are included and the kernel was compiled
with compatibility flag:
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_UW7
or
.BR CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_LIS .
.IP \(em
.I LiS
ignores this argument and provides a
.B void 
pointer in the
.BR lis_allocb_physreq (9)
function prototype.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documentation;
.[
uw7doc
.]
.I LiS
source code.
.[
LiS
.]

.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B phsyreq
structure first appeared in
.IR UnixWare \(rg.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
