'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: putctl2.9.man,v 0.9.2.7 2004/04/19 02:58:19 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/04/19 02:58:19 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH PUTCTL2 9 "$Date: 2004/04/19 02:58:19 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B putctl2
\- puts a two byte control message on a \fISTREAMS\fR message queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int putctl2(queue_t *" q ", int " type ", int " param1 ", int " param2 );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I q
the queue to which to put the control message.
.TP
.I type
the type of the control message.
.TP
.I param1
a one-byte parameter to place in the first byte of the message.
.TP
.I param2
a one-byte parameter to place in the second byte of the message.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR putctl2 ()
creates a two-byte control message of type
.I type
with the two-byte data containing the data
.IR param1 " and " param2 ,
and invokes the put procedure of the queue pointed to by
.I q
to place the message on the queue.
If
.I type
is a data message type and not a control message type,
.BR putctl2 ()
will fail.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR putctl2 ()
is typically used for sending a two-byte
.BR M_ERROR (9)
message to the stream head.
In this case,
.I param1
corresponds to the read error, and
.I param2
corresponds to the write error.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR putctl2 ()
returns true (1).
.PP
Upon failure,
.BR putctl2 ()
returns false (0).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR putctl2 ()
fails and returns false (0) if the specified
.I type
is not a control message type or if allocation of the necessary message block
fails.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR putctl2 ()
can be called from any context; however, see the considerations listed under
.BR put (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR putctl2 ()
is MP-safe; however, see the considerations listed under
.BR put (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR put (9),
.BR putctl (9),
.BR putctl1 (9),
.BR putnextctl (9),
.BR putnextctl1 (9),
.BR putnextctl2 (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR putctl2 ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR putctl2 ()
is source-level compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR MacOS \(rg,
and
LiS
.[
LiS
.]
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR MacOS \(rg,
and
.I LiS
do not provide
.BR putctl2 ().
.PP
Binary compatibility with
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility information.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR putctl2 ()
is not an SVR 4.2
.[
svr42
.]
.I STREAMS
utility function; however, it appears in some implementations.
.BR putctl2 ()
conforms to
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR putctl2 ()
first appeared in some implementations of
SVR 4.
.[
svr4
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
