'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: qclose.9.man,v 0.9.2.12 2006/04/05 09:44:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: qclose.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.12  2006/04/05 09:44:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH QCLOSE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B qclose
\- closes a \fISTREAMS\fR driver or module
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "int qclose(queue_t *" q ", int " flag ", cred_t *" credp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
is a pointer to the driver or module's read queue.
.TP
.I flag
is a close flag that contains a bitwise or of one or more of the following
flags:
.RS
.TP \w'FNDELAY\(em'u
.B FREAD
the \fISTREAMS\fP special file was opened for read.
.PD 0
.TP
.B FWRITE
the \fISTREAMS\fP special file was opened for write.
.TP
.B FEXCL
the \fISTREAMS\fP special file was opened for exclusive access.
.TP
.B FNDELAY
the \fISTREAMS\fP special file was opened for non-blocking operation.
.PD
.PP
The close flags are the same as the flags used to open the driver or module by
the closing user.
.RE
.TP
.I credp
is a pointer to a credentials structure indicating the credentials of the
process invoking the close, structured as follows:
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
typedef struct cred {
        uid_t cr_ruid, cr_uid, cr_suid, cr_fsuid;
        gid_t cr_rgid, cr_gid, cr_sgid, cr_fsgid;
        int cr_ngroups;
        gid_t cr_groups[NGROUPS];
} cred_t;
\fR\s+2
.fi
.sp
For more information on the
.B cred
structure, see
.BR cred_t (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implemenation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR qclose ()
closes a
.I STREAMS
driver or module by calling the queue's
.I q->q_info->qi_close
procedure (if it exists).
.BR qclose ()
is invoked on the last close of a
.I STREAMS
character special file.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR qclose ()
is an internal
.I STREAMS
function that is not intended to be called
directly by the driver or module writer.  See
.BR close (2s)
and
.BR I_POP (7)
for indirect methods of invoking this function.  See
.IR qi_qclose (9)
for design guidelines for writing driver or module close routines.
This function is exported for
use by clone drivers and stream heads.  See
.BR register_inode (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success,
.BR qclose ()
returns zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR qclose ()
returns a negative error number.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR qclose ()
fails, it returns a negative error number as follows:
.PP
In addition, any error returned by the module's
.I q->q_info->qi_close
function can be returned by
.BR qclose ().
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR qclose ()
should only be called from user context or from within a
.IR qi_qopen (9)
or
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR qclose ()
is MP-safe when called from the correct context.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR qclose ()
is an internal
.I STREAMS
function which was not intended to be called directly by
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.
.BR qclose ()
is not part of the DDI/DKI and should not be called by portable programs.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following is an example of a module
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedure (see
.IR qi_qclose (9)
for more detailed examples):
.sp
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  int
 2  xxx_close(queue_t *q, int flag, cred_t *crp)
 3  {
 4      (void) flag;
 5      (void) crp;
 6      xxx_free_priv(q);
 7      MOD_DEC_USE_COUNT;
 8      return (0);
 9  }
\fR\s+2
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR close (2s),
.BR streamio (7),
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.BR qattach (9),
.BR qdetach (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR qclose ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR qclose ()
is not exported by
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.IR Solaris \(rg
or LiS.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR qclose ()
is compliant with the description of the internal
.BR qclose ()
function of
.IR "SVR 4"
.[
svr4
.]
as described in
.IR "\*(lqThe Magic Garden\*(rq" .
.[
magic
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR qclose ()
first appeared in as a module entry point in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
