'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: qcountstrm.9.man,v 0.9.2.16 2008-04-28 12:53:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: qcountstrm.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.16  2008-04-28 12:53:54  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.15  2006/04/05 09:44:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH QCOUNTSTRM 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B qcountstrm
\- add all counts on all \fISTREAMS\fR message queues in a stream
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "ssize_t qcountstrm(queue_t *" q );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue to begin summing queue counts.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR qcountstrm ()
sums all of the
.I q->q_count
counts for each queue downstream of the specified queue,
.IR q .
Only queues that are in the same stream as the specified queue,
.IR q ,
will be counted.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR qcountstrm ()
returns the sum of all the queue counts
.RI ( q->q_count )
in the queues downstream of the specified queue.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR qcountstrm ()
always succeeds.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR qcountstrm ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR qcountstrm ()
is MP-safe; however, the caller is responsible for the validity of the passed in
.I q
pointer across the call.
.PP
The validity of either queue in the pair, and either
.I q_next
pointer for a queue in the pair, for the queue pointer passed to a module
procedure, callout or synchronous callback functions, is guaranteed by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
Any queue pointer in the pair passed as an argument to an asynchronous callback
function are also valid, providing the driver or module observes the rules for
cancellation of asynchronous callbacks on close.
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
also provides that a queue pointer in the pair within whose procedures an
asynchronous callback was invoked, and either
.I q_next
pointer, are also valid in an asynchronous callback.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR queue_t (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR qcountstrm ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR qcountstrm ()
is compatible with
.I LiS
.[
lis
.]
with the following exceptions:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
keeps track of message block sizes in
.I q->q_count
for a queue.
.I LiS
counts the absolute sizes of data blocks.  This is an
.I LiS
bug.  See
.BR msgsize (9).
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will use
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
instead of
.IR LiS .
.\".PP
.\"Symbol
.\".BR lis_qcountstrm ()
.\"is provided for binary compatibility with LiS.  See
.\".BR liscompat (9).
.\".BR lis_qcountstrm ()
.\"calls
.\".BR qcountstrm ()
.\"directly.
.IP \(em
This function is not provided by
.I SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI
or
.IR Solaris \(rg.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR qcountstrm ()
is an
.IR LiS -specific
function.
.BR qcountstrm ()
is provided for source and binary compatibility with
.IR LiS .
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR qcountstrm ()
first appeared in
.IR LiS .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
