'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: qdelete.9.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-28 12:53:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: qdelete.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-28 12:53:54  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:44:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH QDELETE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B qdelete
\- delete a queue pair from a Stream
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "void qdelete(queue_t *" q );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue pair to delete.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
half-deletes the queue pair identified by
.I q
from the Stream to which it belongs.  The
.I q->q_next
pointers of the queue pair to be deleted,
.IR q ,
are adjusted, but the Stream remains unaffected.
.BR qprocsoff (9)
must be called before calling
.BR qdelete ()
to properly remove the queue pair from the Stream.
.BR qprocsoff (9)
is responsible for adjusting the
.I q_next
pointer of the Stream head write queue and the read queue at the top of the module stack or driver
to bypass the module.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.BR qdelete()
is not intended to be called by
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.
.PP
.BR qdelete()
should only be called from the
.BR qattach (9)
or
.BR qdetach (9)
procedure or a Stream head
.BR stropen (9)
open or
.BR strclose (9)
close procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
returns void.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
is always successful.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR qdelete()
must only be called at process context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR qdelete()
should only be called from the
.BR qattach (9)
or
.BR qdetach (9)
procedure or a Stream head
.BR stropen (9)
open or
.BR strclose (9)
close procedure.
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
takes a plumbing write lock on the Stream head before nulling the
.I q_next
pointers of the queue pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
The queue pair,
.IR q ,
should have been already removed from data flow in the Stream with
.BR qprocsoff (9)
(but checks again anyway).
.PP
.I q
must be a valid pointer or bad things will happen.
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
is an internal
.I STREAMS
function which was not intended to be called by
the
.I STREAMS
driver or module writer.
.BR qdelete ()
is not part of the DDI/DKI and should not be called by portable programs.
.BR qdelete ()
is highly implementation dependent in function and prototype.  Use of this
function by a driver or module will guarantee that it is not portable even between
releases of
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The functions does not do gets and puts on the Stream head when adding or removing queue pairs from
the Stream because the Stream head reference count falling to zero is used to deallocate thte Stream
head queue pair.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR qprocsoff (9),
.BR qattach (9),
.BR qdetach (9),
.BR stropen (9),
.BR strclose (9),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
is compatible with descriptions of
.I STREAMS
internals for
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
magic
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR qdelete ()
is roughly compatible with the internal operations described for
.IR "SVR 4 STREAMS"
in
.RI \(lq "The Magic Garden Explained" \(rq.
.[
magic
.]
.IP ""
.BR qdelete ()
is an internal function that will not be called by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.
.IP \(em
.I SVR 4.2 MP
and systems based on
.I SVR 4
do not export this function.
.IP \(em
Source and Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
is consistent with the description of the internal
.BR qdetach (9)
function of
.I SVR 4
.[
svr4
.]
as described in
.IR "\*(lqThe Magic Garden\*(rq" .
.[
magic
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR qdelete ()
is new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
