'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: qenable.9.man,v 0.9.2.19 2005/11/25 23:42:06 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/25 23:42:06 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH QENABLE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B qenable
\- schedules a \fISTREAMS\fR message queue service procedure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "void qenable(queue_t *" q );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I q
the queue to enable.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR qenable ()
schedules the
.BR srvp (9)
procedure of the queue pointed to by
.I q
to be run by
.BR runqueues (9).
If the queue pointed to by
.I q
has been disabled with a call to
.BR noenable (9),
then
.BR qenable ()
will still succeed in enabling the queue.
.PP
.BR qenable ()
is normally called to invoke the execution of
.IR q 's
.BR srvp (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR qenable ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
When
.BR qenable ()
fails, it fails silently.
.BR qenable ()
fails to enable the queue when the queue does not have a
.BR srvp (9)
procedure.  Otherwise,
.BR qenable ()
is always successful.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR qenable ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR qenable ()
is MP-safe.
.PP
If the queue was not already enabled
.RB ( srvp (9)
procedure already scheduled to run) on a different CPU,
.BR qenable ()
schedules the
.BR srvp (9)
procedure of the queue,
.IR q ,
using
.BR scheduleq (9)
on the current CPU.  In this case, the queue
.BR srvp (9)
procedure for the queue,
.IR q ,
will not execute until after
.BR qenable ()
returns and the function that called
.BR qenable ()
returns or encounters a preemption point.
However, if the queue is already scheduled by another processor  and
.BR qenable ()
was not called from a context synchronous with the
.BR srvp (9)
procedure, another
processor may run the
.BR srvp (9)
procedure before
.BR qenable ()
returns.
.PP
Therefore,
.BR qenable ()
should be called with
.I STREAMS
synchronization in effect, or hold the necessary private locks across the
call to
.BR qenable (),
if it is ncessary to synchronize the call to
.BR qenable ()
with execution of the
.BR srvp (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR qenable ()
has no effect if the queue has already been enabled due to internal
.I STREAMS
scheduler actions, or a previous call to
.BR qenable ()
that has not yet completed service.
.PP
Enabling a queue from within its own
.BR srvp (9)
procedure will not reschedule the
.BR srvp (9)
procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR runqueues (9),
.BR noenable (9),
.BR srvp (9),
.BR scheduleq (9),
.BR qclose (9),
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR enableok (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR qenable ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR qenable ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR qenable ()
only schedules the queue for later service.
.BR qenable ()
schedules a queue regardless of whether the
.B QNOENB
flag is set, or whether
.BR noenable (9)
has been called for the queue,
For a version of this function that considers the
.B QNOENB
flag, see
.BR enableq (9).
Even as far back as
.IR "SVR 3.1" ,
.[
svr3spg
.]
the
.BR noenable (9),
.BR enableok (9)
and
.BR canenable (9)
functions affecting the
.B QNOENB
flag have only affected
.BR putq (9)
scheduling the queue,
.IR q .
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will expect that
.BR qenable ()
will enable a queue regardless of the state of the
.B QNOENB
flag and the calling of
.BR noenable (9).
.IP \(em
.BR qenable ()
is not bug for bug compatible with
.IR LiS .
.IP ""
Under older versions of
.IR LiS ,
.BR qenable ()
will not enable a queue previously disabled with
.BR enableok ()
or
.BR qprocsoff ().
This is an
.I LiS
bug.
Under current versions of
.IR LiS ,
this is not the case, but current versions of
.I LiS
have their own bugs: for example,
.BR qenable ()
will not enable a queue that is closing (i.e. had the
.B QCLOSING
flag set), which is before module and driver
.BR qclose (9)
procedures get called.
.[
lis
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not use
.IR LiS ,
but will use
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
in its place.
.IP \(em
.BR qenable ()
may be called on a stream frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
.[
suxspg
.]
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
do not permit
.BR qenable ()
to be called on a stream frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should not call
.BR qenable ()
on a stream frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.IP \(em
.BR qenable ()
enables the queue regardless of the settings of other flags.
.IR IRIX \(rg,
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
documentation
explicitly state that
.BR qenable ()
schedules the queue regardless of whether
.BR noenable (9)
was invoked on the queue previously.
.[
irixdoc
.]
.[
soldoc
.]
.[
suxdoc
.]
.[
uw7doc
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
and
.IR UXP/V \(rg
documentation
does not say that
.BR noenable (9)
defeats
.BR qenable ()
either.
.[
aixdoc
.]
.[
hpuxdoc
.]
.[
osfdoc
.]
.[
uxpdoc
.]
Older versions of
.I LiS
source code,
on the other hand, shows that no queue will be enabled while the
.BR QNOENB ", "  QPROCSOFF " or " QCLOSING
flags are set.
This is an
.I LiS
bug.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not rely on
.BR qenable ()
to enable a stream that is disabled previously with
.BR noenable (9);
instead, it will reenable the stream with
.BR enableok (9)
before calling
.BR qenable ().
See
.RI \*(lq EXAMPLES \*(rq
under
.BR enableok (9)
for an example.
.IP \(em
Symbol
.BR lis_qenable ()
is provided for compatibility with
.IR LiS .
See
.BR liscompat (9).
.BR lis_qenable ()
simply calls
.BR qenable ().
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCES
.PP
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI"
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR qenable ()
appears as part of
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR qenable ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
The original versions of
.BR qenable ()
returned
.B int
instead of
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.TI
