'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: qi_putp.9.man,v 0.9.2.7 2006/04/05 09:44:15 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2006/04/05 09:44:15 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: qi_putp.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.7  2006/04/05 09:44:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH QI_PUTP 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B put, qi_putp, qi_putp_t
\- \fISTREAMS\fR driver or module put procedure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "typedef int (*qi_putp_t) (queue_t *" q ", mblk_t *" mp ");

.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
pointer to the
.BR queue_t (9)
to which to put a message;
.PD 0
.TP
.I mp
pointer to the
.BR mblk_t (9)
message to put to the queue.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.IR qi_putp ()
is one of 5 principal synchronous entry points into a
.I STREAMS
driver or module that form part of the definition of the driver or module.  The principal entry
points are:
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.IR qi_qadmin (9),
.IR qi_putp (),
and
.IR qi_srvp (9).
.PP
The
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is specified in both the read and write queue
.BR qinit (9)
structure that is associated with each queue in an existing queue pair forming an instance of the
driver or module from the definitions in the module- and driver-defining
.BR streamtab (9)
structure.
.PP
The
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is called by
.I STREAMS
whenever a message is passed from a neighbouring queue procedure with
.BR putnext (9),
or whenever a message is passed to the Stream head write queue or Stream end (driver) read queue
using
.BR put (9).
The
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is the primary mechanism for passing
.I STREAMS
messages along a Stream.
Although
.IR qi_putp ()
is defined to return a value, any returned value is ignored by
.IR STREAMS ,
and is not available to the caller of
.BR putnext (9)
nor
.BR put (9),
which return
.BR void .
.PP
The arguments passed to the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure are of the same type passed to
.BR put (9)
and
.BR putnext (9);
as follows:
.TP
.I q
is a pointer to the
.BR queue (9)
structure representing the read or write queue to which the message is to be passed.
.TP
.I mp
is a pointer to the
.BR msgb (9)
structure representing a message reference to a data block,
.BR datab (9)
and associated data buffer, that is to be passed to the queue,
.IR q .
.PP
.I STREAMS
invokes a queue
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure as messages are passed to, or along, a Stream with
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putnext (9).
.PP
The
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is called in the following circumstances:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
.BR put (9)
was called from the Stream head to place a message on the write queue of the driver or module on the
top of the module stack for the Stream.
.IP (2)
.BR put (9)
was called from a device driver routine (possibly an interrupt service routine, or soft interrupt
bottom half or tasklet), to place a message on the read queue of the driver.
.IP (3)
.BR put (9)
was called from a driver or module
.IR qi_qopen (9)
or
.IR qi_qclose (9)
routine to place a message on the driver or module queue a queue adjacent to the driver or module.
.IP (4)
.BR putnext (9)
was called from within a Stream head, driver or module
.IR qi_putp ()
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure to pass a message to a neighbouring queue (adjacent queue, or queue across a multiplexing
driver).
.PP
When the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is invoked for a queue by
.IR STREAMS ,
(as a result of proper invocation of
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putnext (9)
from a driver or module), the following conditions prevail:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
When invoked using
.BR put (9),
the call will be invoked with a Stream head plumbing read lock for the Stream to which
.I q
belongs, guaranteeing the validity of any
.I q_next
pointer within the Stream.
.IP (2)
When invoked using
.BR putnext (9),
in the proper fashion,
from another
.IR qi_putp ()
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure, the call will be invoked with a Stream head plumbing read lock for the Stream from which
the call was invoked.  When
.BR putnext (9)
is used to pass messages along a single Stream, the plumbing read lock is for the same Stream and
the validity of any
.I q_next
pointer within the Stream is guaranteed.
.IP (3)
The Stream must be in a thawed state,
see
.BR unfreezestr (9),
before any
.IR qi_putp ()
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure will be entered within the Stream.  However, the Stream may become frozen after (or
immediately before) the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is called.
(Freezing a Stream with
.BR freezestr (9)
is advisory to threads entering 
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedures, and is mandatory for threads attempting to alter the state of the target queue.)
.IP (4)
Queue put and service procedures will have been enabled with
.BR qprocson (9)
for the queue pair containing the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure before the call,
and will not be disabled with
.BR qprocsoff (9)
for the queue pair until after the call.
.IP (5)
If an
.BR mp-streams (9)
synchronization specification has been made for the driver or module, the calling thread will enter
the inner synchronization barrier shared or exclusive (depending on the specification) before the
call to
.IR qi_putp ()
and will leave the barrier after its return.
.PP
In contrast to the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure, that handles deferred processing of messages,
the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is responsible for the immediate disposition of a message passed to the Stream end or from
a neighbouring queue.
.IR qi_putp ()
procedures are responsible for the disposition of the message reference,
.IR mp ,
and all references held by the caller of
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putnext (9)
are invalidated by the call.
There are three actions that a
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure can take with regard the disposition of the passed in message:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
free the message (or part of the message) with a
.I STREAMS
utility such as
.BR freeb (9)
or
.BR freemsg (9);
.IP (2)
pass the message (or part of the message) to another queue using
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putnext (9);
or,
.IP (3)
place the message (or part of the message) on the queue's own message queue using a
.I STREAMS
utility such as
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR putq (9),
or
.BR putbq (9).
.PP
The
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is allowed to modify the passed in message at its discretion before applying one of the
above terminal dispositions to the message.
However, the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure should not modify the contents of the data buffer associated with any data block,
.BR datab (9),
that has a reference count,
.IR db_ref ,
greater than one
.RB ( 1 )
[see
.BR dupmsg (9)].
Message blocks with a data block reference greater than one should be copied and the copy altered
instead.
.PP
Any other actions taken with regard to the message form part of the definition of the module or
driver concerned.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The driver or module
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is responsible for maintaining proper operations of the Stream by handling specific
message types in specific fashions.
The following sections provide some guidelines for the design of
.IR qi_putp ()
procedures from a driver or module, and rules for handling of messages within the procedure:
.\"
.SS Driver and Module qi_putp() Design Rules
.PP
The following design rules apply to both drivers and modules:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Every queue must have a
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure defined in its associated
.BR qinit (9)
structure, specified by the driver or module in its defining
.BR streamtab (9)
structure.
.IP \(bu
Any
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure that places messages to its own queue using
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR putbq (9),
must also have a corresponding
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure defined for the queue.
When no corresponding
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure is defined, the
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure should not place messages on its own queue and must either free them or pass them along
using
.BR putnext (9).
.IP \(bu
A
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure must not place messages directly on a neighbouring queue's message queue using the
.BR putq (9)
or
.BR putbq (9)
.I STREAMS
utilities.
It must only call
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putnext (9)
for the neighbouring queue to pass messages.
.IP \(bu
.IR qi_putp ()
procedures must not sleep or preempt.
Any
.IR qi_put ()
procedure must be congnisant of the fact that it can be called typically with local hardware or
software interrupts suppressed.  This places two requirements on the procedure:
.RS
.IP 1) \w'0)\(em'u
Message processing performed directly by the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure must be brief.
Any long processing required on a message will be deferred to a
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure by enqueueing the message on the message queue.
.IP ""
Perfoming extensive message processing directly from a
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure, or causing a
.IR qi_putp ()
to sleep, can have a detrimental impact on
.B GNU/Linux
system performance and latency of response to time-critical events.
.IP 2)
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure called at interrupt has a limited processor stack.  Processing performed by a
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure should be performed directly out of the
.IR qi_putp ()
function, (i.e., without nesting too many subroutine calls), and must be congnisant of the fact that
the operational stack may be limited.
.IP ""
Each call to
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putnext (9)
from within a
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure nests a direct function call to another
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure.  If many function calls are nested while processing
.IR qi_putp ()
procedures along a Stream in this fashion, the kernel or interrupt stack could be overflowed.
Calls to
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putnext (9)
from a driver or module
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure should stack no local variables, and should be called within the same stack frame as the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure.
.IP ""
Overflowing an interrupt stack may cause the
.B GNU/Linux
system to panic or otherwise destabilize the kernel.
.RE
.IP \(bu
.IR qi_putp ()
procedures are not allowed to access (directly or indirectly via kernel utilities) the
.I current
user task structure.
The task that is
.I current
when a
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is invoked can be any task in the
.BR GNU/Linux
system, and has no fixed relationship to the user that invoked the chain of events resulting in
the procedure being called.
.IP \(bu
Every
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is responsible for flow control within the Stream.  Message handling rules for flow
control must be followed whenever messages are to be passed to a neighbouring queue.  Flow control
rules are as follows:
.RS
.IP 1) \w'0)\(em'u
Messages that are of high priority [see
.BR datab (9)]
can be passed to a neighbouring queue without regard to flow control or message ordering within the
message queue.
.IP 2)
A module that has no service procedure, may pass messages to a neighbouring queue without
regard to flow control.  Modules that have no service procedure are designed a filtering modules
that do not normally generate or consume messages within a data stream.
.IP 3)
Messages that are of normal priority (ordinary or priorty messages), must be maintained in sequence
with regard to other messages of the same priority on the message queue.  That is, if a message of
the same priority already exists on the message queue, an arriving message must be queued in order
behind it.  (The
.I STREAMS
.BR putq (9)
utility maintains such ordering.)
.IP 4)
For a read queue, normal priority messages should not be passed by a driver or module while the
message queue is empty and the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure is processing a message.
This is because a
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure on the read side can be invoked at hard or soft interrupt context, interrupting the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure processing that runs under process or
.I STREAMS
context.
This is necessary because the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure may very well place the message it is processing
back on the queue with
.BR putbq (9)
disrupting message ordering.
.IP ""
This is not normally the case on the write side, where the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is invoked in process or
.I STREAMS
context, and cannot normally interrupt a
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure.
.IP ""
Note that when the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure is running, the
.BR QSVCBUSY
flag is set for the queue; and, when it is processing a message,
the
.BR QWANTR
flag is clear for the queue.
.IP ""
Otherwise, the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure can use an alternate mechanism to block the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure from passing messages, or signal the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure that it must queue messages (e.g., by taking basic locks, signalling via a shared
state module private data structure, or raising its software priority level to that of the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure).
.IP 5)
Messages that are of normal priority that are to be passed to a neighbouring queue, in accordance
with the above, must have flow control checked for the neighbouring queue using the
.BR canput (9),
.BR canputnext (9),
.BR bcanput (9),
.BR bcanputnext (9),
.I STREAMS
utilities.
When the called utility returns false, the message must not be passed, but may be enqueued to the
local message queue using
.BR putq (9)
(or discarded).
.RE
.\"
.SS Module qi_putp() Design Rules
.PP
The following design rules apply to modules:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If a module
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is passed a message containing a message type that it does not recognize, it should pass
the message to the next module in the Stream (in accordance with queueing and flow control rules
appropriate to the priority of the message).
.IP \(bu
Modules must follow the module rules for handling specific message types.  These rules are detailed
on the manual page describing the message type (e.g.,
.BR M_FLUSH (9)).
For a list of message types and their corresponding manual pages, see
.BR datab (9).
.\"
.SS Driver qi_putp() Design Rules
.PP
The following design rules apply to drivers:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If a driver
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is passed a message containing a message type that it does not recognize, it should
discard (ignore and free) the message.
.IP \(bu
Drivers must follow the driver rules for handling specific message types.  These rules are detailed
on the manual page describing the message type (e.g.,
.BR M_FLUSH (9)).
For a list of message types and their corresponding manual pages, see
.BR datab (9).
.\"
.SS ISR Design Rules
.PP
These design rules apply to device drivers (that process read events at interrupt).
The write side
.IR qi_putp ()
processing is similar to that of a module or pseudo-device driver with the additional consideration
that device actions can be performed from either the
.IR qi_putp ()
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedures.
The read side
.IR qi_putp ()
processing is normally different and is described in the points that follow:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Messages must be placed on the read side queue from an ISR or bottom-half using the
.BR put (9)
utility and not the
.BR putnext (9)
utility.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
defers
.IR qi_putp ()
processing when
.BR put (9)
is invoked at hard interrupt.  Messages are placed in a separate event queue to be processed later
by the
.I STREAMS
scheduler.
.IP \(bu
Whenever it is necessary to test flow control from an ISR, the read side queue usually requires a
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure, and the
.BR canput (9)
or
.BR bcanput (9)
forms of the test should be used (and not the
.BR canputnext (9)
or
.BR bcanputnext (9)
forms of the test).
.IP \(bu
Designs that perform a
.BR putnext (9)
from the driver read side
.IR qi_putp () 
procedure are difficult because the module above the driver might not have properly considered that
its read side
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure will be invoked at interrupt or bottom-half.
Designs that incorporate a read side
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure work better even if the module above was so designed.
Calling
.BR putnext (9)
in the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure, however, may result in reduced processing latency.
.IP \(bu
ISRs and bottom-halves may call
.BR putq (9)
to place a message on the read side message queue; however, it is considered better form to provide
a
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure, even if it simply calls (or is a function pointer to)
.BR putq (9).
.IP \(bu
MP-safe drivers and ISRs may be difficult to design of they directly invoke functions used by the
driver's
.IR qi_putp ()
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure.  It is easier to place queue specialized messages (such as
.BR M_CTL (9))
to the read side message queue with
.BR put (9)
and let
.B mp-streams (9)
synchronization do the work.
This approach also works well for external asynchronous events (e.g., timeouts) is a psuedo-device
driver, or even in a module.
.PP
In general, any kernel subsystem outside of
.I STREAMS
that places messages on a Stream end should follow the same rules as those for ISRs and
bottom-halves described above.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
The
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure returns an integer value.  This value is ignored by
.I STREAMS
and should always be zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Although the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is capable of returning an error code, the returned value is always ignored by
.I STREAMS
and cannot be passed back to the caller of
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putnext (9),
because these functions return
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
A driver or module
.IR qi_put ()
procedure,
when invoked correctly,
can be called by
.I STREAMS
in any context, including process,
.IR STREAMS ,
software interrupt,
and
hard interrupt contexts.
There is no general portable way for a
.IR qi_put ()
procedure to determine the context in which it was called.
The non-portable
.BR current_context (9)
utility can be used under
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
to determine the current context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.SS Synchronized Modules and Drivers
.PP
If
.BR mp-streams (9)
synchronization has been specified for the driver or module, the inner synchronization barrier, if
any, is entered shared or exclusive in accordance with the synchronization specification for the
driver or module, across the call to the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure.  If synchronization has not been specified for the driver or module (that is, the module
or driver is specified as MP-safe), the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is invoked without synchronization.
.\"
.SS MP-Safe Modules and Drivers
.PP
.IR qi_putp ()
is called by
.I STREAMS
in the context in which the
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putnext (9)
utility was invoked.  Regardless of the context, when properly invoked,
.I STREAMS
is aware of which queue is being processed on a per-processor basis.
.PP
When invoked by
.BR put (9),
.I STREAMS
acquires and holds a Stream head plumbing read lock, for the Stream within which the queue resides,
across the call to the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure.
This permits the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure, and any
.I STREAMS
utility functions called by the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure, to dereference any
.I q_next
pointer in the Stream, and the dereference will remain valid for the duration of the
.IR qi_putp ()
call.
Note that this does not provide any assurances of the validity of a
.I q_next
pointer dereference in any other Stream, such as another Stream in an upper or lower multiplex: the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is responsible for asserting its own assurances in that regard.
(Note that freezing a Stream with
.BR freezestr (9)
guarantees validity of all subsequent
.I q_next
pointer derefernces until the Stream is thawed with
.BR unfreezestr (9)).
.PP
If the Stream containing the queue,
.IR q ,
has been frozen with a call to
.BR freezestr (9),
by a processor,
.I STREAMS
running on another processor will not enter any
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure in the Stream, but will spin awaiting the thawing of the Stream by the processor that
froze it, with a call to
.BR unfreezestr (9).
If the Stream was frozen after the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure began execution, any attempt by the procedure to alter the state of the queue
targetted in the
.BR freezestr (9)
command that froze the Stream, will spin until the Stream is thawed by
.BR unfreezestr (9).
.PP
No
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure for a queue pair that has not yet had
.BR qprocson (9)
called for the queue pair, or that has not returned from its
.IR qi_qopen (9)
routine, will be executed by
.IR STREAMS .
Once a
.IR qi_putp ()
is executing, any call to
.BR qprocsoff (9)
for the queue pair will spin until the
.BR put (9)
call exits and releases the Stream head plumbing read lock.
If
.BR put (9)
has been called, but procedures are then turned off for the queue pair with
.BR qprocsoff (9)
before the call has a chance to complete, when it is time to call the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure,
.BR put (9)
will effectively perform a
.BR putnext (9)
if the queue belongs to a module, or
.BR freemsg (9)
if the queue belongs to a driver.
.PP
For MP-Safe drivers and modules,
multiple threads can be executing the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure concurrently for the same queue (but different messages).
Also, other threads may be executing the
.IR qi_srvp (9),
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.IR q_qclose (9),
or
.IR q_qadmin (9),
procedures and routines concurrently.  It is the responsible of the writer of the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure to acquire and hold the necessary locks to provide exclusive access to data structures
shared across these calls.
.BR freezestr (9)
is inadequate in this case, and the procedures should use driver or module private locks.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
A queue
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is an internal
.I STREAMS
entry point to the driver or module, that is not intended to be called directly by the module or
driver writer.  See
.BR put (9)
and
.BR putnext (9)
for accepted methods of invoking this procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH STYLE
.PP
It is common practise to name
.IR qi_putp ()
procedures as follows, (where
.I prefix
is the configuration prefix chosen for the driver or module and typically derived from the name of
the driver or module, and which may contain a trailing underscore):
.TP \w'\fIprefix\fBmuxwput\fR()\(em'u
\fIprefix\fBrput\fR()
read side of a module or upper multiplex read side of a driver;
.PD 0
.TP
\fIprefix\fBwput\fR()
write side of a module or upper multiplex write side of a driver;
.TP
\fIprefix\fBmuxrput\fR()
lower multiplex read side of a driver; and,
.TP
\fIprefix\fBmuxwput\fR()
lower multiplex write side of a driver.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.SS Example #1 \(en Module qi_putp()
.PP
The following example of a module
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure comes directly from the write side of the
.BR bufmod (4)
module located in
.I src/modules/bufmod.c
source file in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  static int
 2  bufmod_wput(queue_t *q, mblk_t *mp)
 3  {
 4      if (unlikely(mp->b_datap->db_type == M_FLUSH)) {
 5          if (mp->b_rptr[0] & FLUSHW) {
 6              if (mp->b_rptr[0] & FLUSHBAND)
 7                  flushband(q, FLUSHALL, mp->b_rptr[1]);
 8              else
 9                  flushq(q, FLUSHALL);
10          }
11      }
12      if (likely(mp->b_datap->db_type >= QPCTL
13                 || (q->q_first == NULL
14                     && !(q->q_flag & QSVCBUSY)
15                     && bcanputnext(q, mp->b_band)))) {
16          putnext(q, mp);
17          return (0);
18      }
19      /* always buffer, always schedule out of service
20         procedure for testing */
21      if (unlikely(putq(q, mp) == 0)) {
22          mp->b_band = 0;
23          putq(q, mp);            /* this must succeed */
24      }
25      return (0);
26  }
\s+2\fP
.fi
.PP
The operation of the
.BR bufmod (4)
module is described in the
.BR bufmod (4)
manual page.
The write
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure passes all messages downstream and performs flow control and buffering.
.IP "\fBLine 4-11\fR:" \w'\fBLine\ 00-00\fR:\(em'u
The module performs processing of the
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
message for modules as described in the
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
manual page.
.IP "\fBLine 12-18\fR:"
If the the message is a high priority message it is passed to the next driver or module using
.BR putnext (9)
without consideration for flow control.
If the message is a normal priority message, the message queue is empty, the service procedure
is not running, and the message band is not flow controlled forward, the message is also passed to
the next driver or module using
.BR putnext (9).
.IP "\fBLine 21-24\fR:"
In all other situations (the message is a normal priority message, the queue is not empty or the
service procedure is running or the message band is flow controlled forward), the message is placed
on the  message queue to be processed by the service procedure.
.IP "\fBLine 17,25\fR:"
The module put procedure always returns zero.
.PP
See the
.I src/modules
directory in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution for more working examples of module put procedures.
.\"
.SS Example #2 \(en Driver qi_putp()
.PP
The following example of a driver
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure comes directly from the lower read side of the
.BR mux (4)
multiplexing driver located in
.I src/modules/mux
source file in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  static int
 2  mux_muxrput(queue_t *q, mblk_t *mp)
 3  {
 4      struct mux *mux = q->q_ptr;
 5  
 6      switch (mp->b_datap->db_type) {
 7      case M_FLUSH:
 8      {
 9          if (mp->b_rptr[0] & FLUSHR) {
10              if (mp->b_rptr[0] & FLUSHBAND)
11                  flushband(q, mp->b_rptr[1], FLUSHALL);
12              else
13                  flushq(q, FLUSHALL);
14          }
15  
16          read_lock(&mux_lock);
17          if (mux->other) {
18              queue_t *rq;
19  
20              if ((rq = mux->other->rq)) {
21                  putnext(rq, mp);
22                  read_unlock(&mux_lock);
23                  return (0);
24              }
25          }
26          read_unlock(&mux_lock);
27  
28          if (!(mp->b_flag & MSGNOLOOP)) {
29              if (mp->b_rptr[0] & FLUSHW) {
30                  if (mp->b_rptr[0] & FLUSHBAND)
31                      flushband(WR(q), mp->b_rptr[1],
32                                FLUSHALL);
33                  else
34                      flushq(WR(q), FLUSHALL);
35                  mp->b_rptr[0] &= ~FLUSHR;
36                  /* pretend to be STREAM head */
37                  mp->b_flag |= MSGNOLOOP;
38                  qreply(q, mp);
39                  return (0);
40              }
41          }
42          freemsg(mp);
43          break;
44      }
45      default:
46          if (!q->q_first && !(q->q_flag & QSVCBUSY)) {
47              read_lock(&mux_lock);
48              if (mux->other) {
49                  queue_t *rq;
50  
51                  if ((rq = mux->other->rq)
52                      && (mp->b_datap->db_type >= QPCTL
53                          || bcanputnext(rq, mp->b_band))) {
54                      putnext(rq, mp);
55                      read_unlock(&mux_lock);
56                      return (0);
57                  }
58              }
59              read_unlock(&mux_lock);
60          }
61          putq(q, mp);
62          break;
63      }
64      return (0);
65  }
\s+2\fP
.fi
.PP
The operation of the
.BR mux (4)
multiplexing driver is described in the
.BR mux (4)
manual page.
.IP "\fBLine 7-44\fR:" \w'\fBLine\ 00-00\fR:\(em'u
The driver performs
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
processing according to the rules for drivers as described in the
.BR M_FLUSH (9)
manual page, with one wrinkle: flushing across the multiplexing driver is supported.
.IP "\fBLine 45-63\fR:"
The driver processes all other messages by passing them across the multiplexing driver or queueing
them on the message queue.
.IP "\fBLine 46\fR:"
If the message queue is not empty or the service procedure is running, messages are queued to the
message queue to preserve order.
.IP "\fBLine 47,59\fR:"
A read lock is taken to protect the driver private (which is changed by ioctl operations on the
upper side of the driver).
.IP "\fBLine 51-57\fR:"
If there is no path to the upper multiplex, messages are simply queued to the message queue awaiting
assignment of an upper multiplex path.  If there is a path and the message is a high priority
message, it is passed without flow control consideration; a normal priority message is only passed
if the message band is not flow controlled at the upper multiplex.  Otherwise, messages are simply
queued to the messge queue.
.PP
See the
.I src/drivers
directory in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution for more working examples of driver put procedures.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR queue (9),
.BR msgb (9),
.BR datab (9),
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.IR qi_qadmin (9),
.IR qi_srvp (9),
.BR qinit (9),
.BR streamtab (9),
.BR put (9),
.BR putnext (9),
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR unfreezestr (9),
.BR qprocson (9),
.BR qprocsoff (9),
.BR mp-streams (9),
.BR freeb (9),
.BR freemsg (9),
.BR appq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR putbq (9),
.BR dupmsg (9),
.BR canput (9),
.BR canputnext (9),
.BR bcanput (9),
.BR bcanputnext (9),
.BR M_FLUSH (9),
.BR M_CTL (9),
.BR current_context (9),
.BR bufmod (4),
.BR mux (4),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
invocation of the
.IR qi_putp ()
entry point has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2"
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4spg
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42spg
.]
did not define a type for the prototype of a queue
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure.  This was an embellishment that first appeared in
.IR OSF/1 \(rg " 1.1" ,
.[
osfspg
.]
and propagated to
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
and
.IR HP-UX \(rg.
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will not directly reference the
.B qi_putp_t
type.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
solspg
.]
always defers calling the
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure when
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putnext (9)
is called to avoid overflowing the kernel stack.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
only defers when
.BR put (9)
is called from hard interrupt context.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers will not be designed so as to expect a
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure to be invoked as a direct function call nested within a
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putnext (9)
call.
.IP \(em
Some implementations permit a wider range of
.I STREAMS
utilities to be called from outside of
.IR STREAMS .
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
limits the set in a similar manner to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
however, 
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
permits the larger set to be used in some circumstances.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers will restrict the use of
.I STREAMS
utilities called from outside the
.I STREAMS
environment to
.BR put (9),
.BR canput (9),
and
.BR bcanput (9),
and the later two will only be used if the target driver queue has a service procedure.
.IP \(em
The same applies to placing messages on Stream ends across a multiplexing driver.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers will restrict the
.I STREAMS
utilities used to operate on a different Stream to
.BR put (9),
.BR canput (9),
and
.BR bcanput (9).
Again, the later two will only be used if the target driver queue has a service procedure.
.IP \(em
Some
.I STREAMS
implementations do not permit
.BR putnext (9)
to be called at hard interrupt.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
permits
.BR putnext (9)
to be called at hard interrupt.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers will not call
.BR putnext (9)
from a driver read
.IR qi_putp ()
procedure, but, rather, will call
.BR putq (9)
to queue the message to the message queue and call
.BR putnext (9)
from the
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure when it runs.
.IP \(em
Because a number of the primary data structure and types have different definitions on the
.B GNU/Linux
system, binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B qi_putp_t
type first appeared in
.IR OSF/1 \(rg " 1.1" .
.[
osfspg
.]
.PP
The queue put procedure first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

