'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: qi_srvp.9.man,v 0.9.2.4 2005/11/29 10:46:33 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/29 10:46:33 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH QI_SRVP 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B srv, service, qi_srvp, qi_srvp_t
\- \fISTREAMS\fR module or driver service procedure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
\fBtypedef int (*\fRqi_srvp_t\fB) (queue_t *\fIq\fB);
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
pointer to the
.BR queue (9)
to service.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.IR qi_srvp ()
is one of 5 principal syncrhonous entry points into a
.I STREAMS
module or driver that form part of its definition.  The principal entry points are:
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.IR qi_qadmin (9),
.IR qi_putp (9),
and
.IR qi_srvp ().
.PP
The
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is specified in both the read and write queue
.BR qinit (9)
structure that is associated with each queue in an existing queue pair forming an instance of the
module or driver from the definitions in the module- and driver-defining
.BR streamtab (9)
structure.
.PP
The
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is called by
.I STREAMS
whenever the queue,
.IR q ,
has been scheduled for service and reaches the front of the
.I STREAMS
scheduler run queue.
Queues are scheduled for service either explicitly, using
.I STREAMS
utility functions such as
.BR enableq (9)
and
.BR qenable (9);
or, implicitly by
.I STREAMS
message queue functions such as
.BR putq (9)
and
.BR getq (9).
The
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is the primary mechanism for deferring message processing and handling flow control within
the
.I STREAMS
framework.
Although
.IR qi_srvp ()
is declared to return a value, any returned value is ignored by
.IR STREAMS ,
and is not available to the caller of
.BR enableq (9),
.BR qenable (9),
.BR putq (9),
or
.BR getq (9).
.PP
The argument passed to the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is as follows:
.TP
.I q
is a pointer to the
.BR queue (9)
structure representing the read or write queue which is to be serviced.
.PP
.I STREAMS
maintains a list of queues that are scheduled for service.  When a queue is scheduled that has not
already been scheduled, it is placed on the tail of the list.  When the
.I STREAMS
scheduler runs [see
.BR runqueues (9)],
queues are taken off of the head of this run queues list and the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure of the queue is invoked with the queue pointer as the argument.  Therefore,
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedures are always invoked within the context of the
.I STREAMS
scheduler, and are invoked single-threaded for a given queue,
.IR q .
.PP
Scheduling a queue's
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure for execution is termed
.RI \(lq enabling \(rq
the queue.
Once a queue's
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure has been scheduled (i.e., the queue has been
.IR enabled ),
the procedure cannot be scheduled again until it has been executed.  In other words, a queue cannot
be enabled when it is already enabled.
If a queue does not have a
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure defined (i.e., the
.I qi_srvp
member of the associated
.BR qinit (9)
structure is
.BR NULL ),
then the queue cannot be enabled: there is no service procedure to schedule.
When flow control blocking by a forward queue subsides and
.I STREAMS
causes a feeding message queue with a defined
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure to be enabled, this is termed
.RI \(lq back-enabling \(rq.
.PP
The
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is scheduled for execution under the following circumstances:
.\" -------------
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
A queue is explicity enabled by calling
.BR enableq (9)
and the queue has not previously had queue enabling suppressed with a call to
.BR noenable (9);
that is, when a call to
.BR canenable (9)
will return true.
.\" -------------
.IP (2)
A queue is explicity enabled by calling
.BR qenable (9),
regardless of the setting of the
.B QNOENB
flag [see
.BR noenable (9)].
.\" -------------
.IP (3)
A queue is enabled under some circumstances when messages are placed on the message queue:
When a high priority message is placed back on a message queue with
.BR putbq (9)
the queue will be enabled (again);
a high priority message is placed on a message queue with
.BR putq (9)
the queue will be enabled (if it is not already enabled); or,
a normal priority message is placed on a message queue with
.BR putq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR qppq (9),
and the message becomes the first message on the queue, or the
.B QWANTR
bit is set in the
.I q_flag
member of the queue indicating that
.BR getq (9)
emptied the queue, the queue will be enabled (if it is not already enabled, and if queue enabling
has not been suspended with
.BR noenable (9)).
.\" -------------
.IP (4)
A queue is enabled under some circumstances when messages are removed from a forward message queue
that was previously flow controlled (termed
.RI \(lq "back-enabling" \(rq).
A queue is back-enabled after a
.BR canput (9),
.BR canputnext (9),
.BR bcanput (9),
.BR bcanputnext (9),
call has previously failed from the queue's
.IR qi_putp ()
or
.IR qi_srvp (),
because a forward message queue is full (i.e., its
.B QFULL
or
.BR QB_FULL
flag is set for the specified message band), when the
previously full queue's count falls beneath its low water mark, or the queue becomes empty.
.I STREAMS
utility functions that remove messages from a message queue can cause its queue count or queue band
count to drop beneath its low water mark, or the queue to become empty.  These utility functions are:
.BR getq (9),
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR flushband (9),
and
.BR flushq (9).
Any of these functions can cause the nearest feeding queue in the Stream that has a defined
.IR qi_srvp ()
to become back-enabled.
See the corresponding manual pages for details.
.PP
When the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is executed for a queue by the
.I STREAMS
scheduler, the following conditions prevail:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
The
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is run single-threaded with respect to a given queue,
.IR q .
That is, for any given value of the argument
.IR q ,
only one thread can be executing the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure with that value passed as an argument.
.IP (2)
The Stream containing the queue must be in a thawed state,
see
.BR unfreezestr (9),
before any
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure will be entered within the stream.  However, the Stream amy become frozen after (or
immediately before) the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is called.
(Freezing a Stream with
.BR freezestr (9)
is advisory to threads entering 
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedures, and is mandatory for threads attempting to alter the state of the target queue.)
.IP (3)
A Stream head plumbing read lock will be acquired and held across the call to the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure.  The Stream head plumbing read lock held in this fashion guarantees that dereferencing of
the
.I q_next
pointers for the queue, and any queue in the same Stream, will be valid through the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure (and any
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure invoked by it).  This permits use of the
.BR putnext (9),
.BR canputnext (9),
.BR bcanputnext (9),
.BR putctlnext (9),
.BR putctl1next (9),
.BR putctl2next (9),
.BR getq (9),
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR flushq (9),
.BR flushband (9),
.I STREAMS
utilities that walk the Stream dereferencing
.I q_next
pointers.
.IP (4)
Queue
.IR qi_putp (9)
and
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedures will have been enabled with
.BR qprocson (9)
for the queue pair containing the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure before the call, and will not be disabled with
.BR qprocsoff (9)
for the queue pair until after the call returns.
.IP (5)
If an
.BR mp-streams (9)
synchronization specification has been made for the module or river, the calling thread will enter
the inner synchronization barrier shared or exclusive (depending on the specification) before the
call to
.IR qi_srvp ()
and will leave the barrier after its return.
.PP
In constrast to the
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure, that handles immediate processing of messages, the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is responsible for delayed or deferred processing of messages that were placed on the
message queue by the
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure.  Another difference is that
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedures run under
.I STREAMS
scheduler context, whereas
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedures run under whatever context prevailed when the
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putnext (9)
utility invoking them were called.
The
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is responsible for taking messages from the message queue in turn, using
.BR getq (9),
and processing them.  There are four actions that a
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure can take with regard to the disposition of message on the queue:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
leave the message on the message queue;
.PD 0
.IP (2)
free the message (or part of the message) with a
.I STREAMS
utility such as
.BR freeb (9)
or
.BR freemsg (9);
.IP (3)
pass the message (or part of the message) to another queue using
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putnext (9);
or,
.IP (4)
place the message (or part of the message) back on the message queue using the
.I STREAMS
utility 
.BR putbq (9).
.PD
.PP
If a message is left on the queue, a message is placed back on the queue with
.BR putbq (9),
or, a call to
.BR getq (9)
to get the next message for processing returns
.BR NULL ,
the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure must exit.
Otherwise, the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure continues to take messages off of the queue with
.BR getq (9)
and processes them in turn.
.PP
Just as the
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure,
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is allowed to modify messages that are removed from the message queue at its discretion
before applying one of the above terminal dispositions to the message.  However, the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure should not modify the contents of the data buffer associated with any data block,
.BR datab (9),
that has a reference count,
.IR db_ref ,
greater thatn one
.RB ( 1 )
[see
.BR dupmsg (9)].
Message blocks with a data block reference greater than one should be copied and the copy altered
instead.
.PP
Any other actions taken with regard to the message form part of the definition of the module or
driver concerned.
.\"
.\"
.PP
The more specific steps taken by a
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure are as follows:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
Remove a message from the queue with
.BR getq (9).
.PD 0
.IP (2)
If
.BR getq (9)
returns
.BR NULL ,
return from the procedure.
.IP (3)
If
.BR getq (9)
retreives a message, check if the message is a high priority mesage
.RI ( "db_type >= QPCTL" ).
If it is, process the message and possibly pass it to the next queue with
.BR putnext (9).
.IP (4)
If the mssage is a normal priority message
.RI ( "db_type < QPCTL" ),
test if the message can be passed along with
.BR bcanputnext (9),
for the band
.IR b_band .
.IP (5)
if
.BR bcanputnext (9)
returns true, process the message and pass the mesage along with
.BR putnext (9).
.IP (6)
If
.BR bcanputnext (9)
returns false, place the message back on the queue with
.BR putbq (9)
and return from the procedure.
.IP (7)
Repeat at step (1).
.PD
.PP
See below under
.RI \(lq EXAMPLES \(rg
for examples of these steps.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
The module or driver
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is responsible for maintaining proper operations of the Stream by handling specific
message types in specific fashions.  The following sections provide some guidelines for the design
of
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedures from a module or driver, and rules for handling of messages within the procedure:
.\"
.SS Driver and Module qi_srvp() Design Rules
.PP
The following design rules apply to both modules and drivers:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
Defining a
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure for a queue is optional.  Not all modules or drivers require deferral of message
processing: some can perform all message processing directly from their
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedures.
.IP \(bu
A queue with a defined
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure that never places message on its message queue must not define a
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure.
.IP \(bu
A
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure must not place messages directly on a neighbouring queue's message queue using
.BR putq (9)
or
.BR putbq (9)
.I STREAMS
utilities.  It must only call
.BR put (9)
or
.BR putnext (9)
for the neighbouring queue to pass messages.
.IP \(bu
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedures must not sleep or preempt.  Any
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure must be congnisant of the fact that service procedures for other queues may be awaiting
execution for the duration of the current call.
Message processing performed by the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure must be finite and should be bounded.  Any extensive unbound processing, or processing
that would benefit from sleeping, should be delegated to independent kernel threads spawned to perform
the processing.
.IP ""
Performing extended and unbound message processing directly from a
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure, or causing a
.IR qi_srvp ()
to sleep, can have detrimental impact on
.I STREAMS
subsystem performance and latency of response to time-critical events.
.IP \(bu
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedures are not allowed to access (directly or indirectly via kernel utilities) the
.I current
user task structure.  The task that is
.I current
when a
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is invoked can be either the
.I STREAMS
scheduler kernel thread, or a user process executing on behalf of the
.I STREAMS
scheduler before exiting a system call.  The
.I STREAMS
scheduler has no fixed relationship to the user that invoked a chain of events resulting in the
procedure being called.
.IP \(bu
Every queue with a defined
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is responsible for flow control within the Stream.  Message handling rules for flow
control must be followed whenever messages are to be passed to a neighbouring queue.  Flow control
rules are as follows:
.RS
.IP 1) \w'0)\(em'u
Messages that are of high priority [see
.BR datab (9)]
can be passed to a neighbouring queue without regard to flow control or message ordering within the
message queue.
.IP 2)
Messages that are of normal priority (ordinary or priorty messages), must be maintained in sequence
with regard to other messages of the same priority on the message queue.  That is, if a message of
the same priority already exists on the message queue, an arriving message must be queued in order
behind it.  (The
.I STREAMS
.BR putbq (9)
utility maintains such ordering.)
.IP 3)
Messages that are of normal priority that are to be passed to a neighbouring queue, in accordance
with the above, must have flow control checked for the neighbouring queue using the
.BR canput (9),
.BR canputnext (9),
.BR bcanput (9),
.BR bcanputnext (9),
.I STREAMS
utilities.
When the called utility returns false, the message must not be passed, but may be placed back on the
local message queue using
.BR putbq (9)
(or discarded).
.RE
.\"
.SS Module qi_srvp() Design Rules
.PP
The following design rules apply to modules:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If a module
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is processing a message containing a message type that it does not recognize, it should
pass the message to the next module in the Stream (in accordance with queueing and flow control
rules appropriate to the priority of the message).
.IP \(bu
Modules must follow the module rules for handling specific message types.  These rules are detailed
on the manual page describing the message type (e.g.,
.BR M_FLUSH (9)).
For a list of message types and their corresponding manual pages, see
.BR datab (9).
.\"
.SS Driver qi_srvp() Design Rules
.PP
The following design rules apply to drivers:
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
If a driver
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is processing a message containing a message type that it does not recognize, it should
discard (ignore and free) the message.
.IP \(bu
Drivers must follow the driver rules for handling specific message types.  These rules are detailed
on the manual page describing the message type (e.g.,
.BR M_FLUSH (9)).
For a list of message types and their corresponding manual pages, see
.BR datab (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
The
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure returns an integer value.  This value is ignored by
.I STREAMS
and should always be zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
Although the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is capable of returning an error code, the returned value is always ignored by
.I STREAMS
and cannot be passed back to the caller of any function.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
A module or driver
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure,
when invoked correctly,
can be called by
.I STREAMS
either in
.I STREAMS
scheduler context (kernel thread), or in the context of a user process executing on behalf of the
.I STREAMS
scheduler before returning from a system call.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.\"
.SS Syncrhonized Modules and Drivers
.PP
If
.BR mp-streams (9)
synchronization has been specified for the module or driver, the inner syncrhonization barrier, if
any, is entered shared or exclusive in accordance with the syncrhonization specification for the
module or driver, across the call to the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure.  If syncrhonization has not been specified for the module or driver (that is, the module
or driver is specified as MP-safe), the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is invoked without synchronization.
.\"
.SS MP-Safe Modules and Drivers
.PP
.IR qi_srvp ()
is called by
.I STREAMS
either in
.I STREAMS
scheduler context (kernel thread), or in the context of a user process executing on behalf of the
.I STREAMS
scheduler before returning from a system call.
Regardless of context, when properly invoked,
.I STREAMS
is aware of which queue is being processed on a per-processor basis.
.PP
.I STREAMS
acquires and holds a Stream head plumbing read lock, for the Stream within which the queue resides,
across the call to the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure.
This permits the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure, and any
.I STREAMS
utility functions called by the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure, to dereference any
.I q_next
pointer in the Stream, and the dereference will remain valid for the duration of the
.IR qi_srvp ()
call.
Note that this does not provide any assurances of the validity of a
.I q_next
pointer dereference in any other Stream, such as another Stream in an upper or lower multiplex: the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is responsible for asserting its own assurances in that regard.
(Note that freezing a Stream with
.BR freezestr (9)
guarantees validity of all subsequent
.I q_next
pointer derefernces until the Stream is thawed with
.BR unfreezestr (9)).
.PP
If the Stream containing the queue,
.IR q ,
has been frozen with a call to
.BR freezestr (9),
by a processor,
.I STREAMS
running on another processor will not enter any
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure in the Stream, but will spin awaiting the thawing of the Stream by the processor that
froze it, with a call to
.BR unfreezestr (9).
If the Stream was frozen after the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure began execution, any attempt by the procedure to alter the state of the queue
targetted in the
.BR freezestr (9)
command that froze the Stream, will spin until the Stream is thawed by
.BR unfreezestr (9).
.PP
No
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure for a queue pair that has not yet had
.BR qprocson (9)
called for the queue pair, or that has not returned from its
.IR qi_qopen (9)
routine, will be executed by
.IR STREAMS .
Once a
.IR qi_srvp ()
is executing, any call to
.BR qprocsoff (9)
for the queue pair will spin until the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure exits and releases the Stream head plumbing read lock.
If a
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure has been scheduled for execution, has procedures turned off for its queue pair with
.BR qprocsoff (9)
before the procedure has a chance to execute, when it is the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure's turn to execute,
.I STREAMS
will cancel it and release its reference to the queue pair.
.PP
For MP-Safe modules and drivers,
only one thread can be executing the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure for a given queue; however, other
threads may be executing the
.IR qi_putp (9),
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.IR q_qclose (9),
or
.IR q_qadmin (9),
procedures and routines concurrently.  It is the responsible of the writer of the
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure to acquire and hold the necessary locks to provide exclusive access to data structures
shared across these calls.
.BR freezestr (9)
is inadequate in this case, and the procedures should use module or driver private locks.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
A queue
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is an internal
.I STREAMS
entry point to the module or driver, that is not intended to be called directly by the module or
driver writer.  See
.BR enableq (9)
and
.BR qenable (9)
for accepted methods of invoking this procedure.
.\"
.\"
.SH STYLE
.PP
It is common practise to name
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedures as follows, (where
.I prefix
is the configuration prefix chosen for the module or driver and typically derived from the name of
the module or driver, and which may contain a trailing underscore):
.TP \w'\fIprefix\fBmuxwsrv\fR()\(em'u
\fIprefix\fBrsrv\fR()
read side of a module or upper multiplex read side of a driver;
.PD 0
.TP
\fIprefix\fBwsrv\fR()
write side of a module or upper multiplex write side of a driver;
.TP
\fIprefix\fBmuxrsrv\fR()
lower multiplex read side of a driver; and,
.TP
\fIprefix\fBmuxwsrv\fR()
lower multiplex write side of a driver.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.SS Example #1 \(en Module qi_srvp()
.PP
The following example of a module
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure comes directly from the read and write side of the
.BR bufmod (4)
module located in
.I src/modules/bufmod.c
source file in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution:
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  static int
 2  bufmod_srv(queue_t *q)
 3  {
 4      mblk_t *mp;
 5  
 6      while ((mp = getq(q))) {
 7          if (likely
 8              (mp->b_datap->db_type >= QPCTL
 9               || bcanputnext(q, mp->b_band))) {
10              putnext(q, mp);
11              continue;
12          }
13          putbq(q, mp);
14          break;
15      }
16      return (0);
17  }
\s+2\fP
.fi
.PP
The operation of the
.BR bufmod (4)
module is described in the
.BR bufmod (4)
manual page.
The write
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure passes all messages downstream and performs flow control and buffering.
.IP "\fBLine 6\fR:" \w'\fBLine\ 00-00\fR:\(em'u
The module loops taking messages off of the message queue with
.BR getq (9)
and processing them.
.IP "\fBLine 7-12\fR:"
If the message is a high priority message or passes flow control restrictions for the message band,
the message is passed to the next queue with
.BR putnext (9).
.IP "\fBLine 13-14\fR:"
If the message is a normal priority message and the message band is flow controlled forward in the
Stream, the message is placed back on the queue using
.BR putbq (9)
and the procedure breaks out of the loop and returns.  The service procedure will be back enabled
when flow control subsides at the flow controlled queue forward in the Stream.
.IP "\fBLine 6,15\fR:"
If there is no more messages on the message queue,
.BR getq (9)
returns
.B NULL
and the loop terminates and the procedure exits.  The service procedure will be enabled again when a
message is placed onto the message queue.
.IP "\fBLine 16\fR:"
The procedure always returns zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.PP
See the
.I src/modules
directory in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution for more working examples of module service procedures.
.\"
.SS Example #2 \(en Driver qi_srvp()
.PP
The following example of a driver
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure comes directly from the lower read side of the
.BR mux (4)
multiplexing driver located in
.I src/modules/mux
source file in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution:
.PP
If the lower read put procedure encounters flow control on the queue beyond the accepting upper read
queue, or if the lower read service procedure is invoked for a lower Stream that is not connected
across the multiplexer, it places the message back on its queue and waits for the upper read queue
service procedure to enable it when congestion has cleared, or when a connection is formed.  If the
upper read queue disconnects from the lower read queue (or has not connected yet), the procedure
leaves these messages on the queue to (potentially) be processed by the Stream head after unlinking,
or to be processed by an upper read queue after connection across the multiplexer.
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2\
 1  static int
 2  mux_lrsrv(queue_t *q)
 3  {
 4      struct mux *mux = q->q_ptr;
 5      queue_t *rq = NULL;
 6      mblk_t *mp;
 7  
 8      read_lock(&mux_lock);
 9      if (mux->other)
10          rq = mux->other->rq;
11      if (rq) {
12          while ((mp = getq(q))) {
13              if (mp->b_datap->db_type >= QPCTL
14                  || bcanputnext(rq, mp->b_band)) {
15                  putnext(rq, mp);
16                  continue;
17              }
18              putbq(q, mp);
19              break;
20          }
21      } else
22          noenable(q);
23      read_unlock(&mux_lock);
24      return (0);
25  }
\s+2\fP
.fi
.PP
The operation of the
.BR mux (4)
multiplexing driver is described in the
.BR mux (4)
manual page.
.IP "\fBLine 8,23\fR:" \w'\fBLine\ 00-00\fR:\(em'u
Because the private structure is altered by the upper write put procedure in response to an
.BR M_IOCTL (9)
message, the procedure takes a read lock here.
.IP "\fBLine 11,22\fR:"
If there is no connection across the multiplexer, the procedure disables automatic enabling of the
queue using
.BR noenable (9),
and returns.  When a connection is formed, the procedure forming the connection will explicitly
enable the queue using
.BR enableok (9)
and
.BR qenable (9).
.IP "\fBLine 12,20\fR:"
If there is a connection across the multiplexer, the procedure loops taking messages off of the
message queue and processing them.  When no messages are left of the message queue, the procedure
terminates and returns zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.IP "\fBLine 13-17\fR:"
If the message is a high priority message, or the message is a normal priority message and the
message band across the multiplexer is not flow controlled for the message band, the message is
passed to the queue across the multiplexer using
.BR putnext (9).
.IP "\fBLine 18-19\fR:"
If the message is a normal priority message and the queue across the multiplexer is flow controlled
for the message band, the message is placed back on the message queue using
.BR putbq (9)
and the procedure breaks out of the loop and returns.
.IP "\fBLine 24\fR:"
The procedure always returns zero
.RB ( 0 ).
.PP
See the
.I src/drivers
directory in the
.B @PACKAGE@-@VERSION@
distribution for more working examples of driver service procedures.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR queue (9),
.BR datab (9),
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.IR qi_qadmin (9),
.IR qi_putp (9),
.BR qinit (9),
.BR streamtab (9),
.BR enableq (9),
.BR qenable (9),
.BR freeb (9),
.BR freemsg (9),
.BR dupmsg (9),
.BR put (9),
.BR putnext (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR qppq (9),
.BR getq (9),
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR putbq (9),
.BR flushq (9),
.BR flushband (9),
.BR enableq (9),
.BR qenable (9),
.BR noenable (9),
.BR enableok (9),
.BR canenable (9),
.BR runqueues (9),
.BR canput (9),
.BR canputnext (9),
.BR bcanput (9),
.BR bcanputnext (9),
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR unfreezestr (9),
.BR putctlnext (9),
.BR putctl1next (9),
.BR putctl2next (9),
.BR M_FLUSH (9),
.BR bufmod (4),
.BR mux (4),
.BR qprocson (9),
.BR qprocsoff (9),
.BR mp-streams (9),
.BR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
invocation of the
.IR qi_srvp ()
entry point has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.IR qi_srvp ()
procedure is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2"
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
.[
svr4spg
.]
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.I "SVR 4.2"
.[
svr42spg
.]
did not define a type for the prototype of a queue
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure.  This was an embellishment that first appeared in
.IR OSF/1 \(rg " 1.1" ,
.[
osfspg
.]
and propagated to
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
and
.IR HP-UX \(rg.
.[
hpuxspg
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not directly reference the
.B qi_qsrvp_t
type.
.IP \(em
Some implementations permit a wider range of
.I STREAMS
utilities to be called from outside of
.IR STREAMS .
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
limits the set in a similar manner to
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
however, 
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
permits the larger set to be used in some circumstances.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers will restrict the use of
.I STREAMS
utilities called from outside the
.I STREAMS
environment to
.BR put (9),
.BR canput (9),
and
.BR bcanput (9),
and the later two will only be used if the target driver queue has a service procedure.
.IP \(em
The same applies to placing messages on Stream ends across a multiplexing driver.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers will restrict the
.I STREAMS
utilities used to operate on a different Stream to
.BR put (9),
.BR canput (9),
and
.BR bcanput (9).
Again, the later two will only be used if the target driver queue has a service procedure.
.IP \(em
Because a number of the primary data structure and types have different definitions on the
.B GNU/Linux
system, binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B qi_qsrvp_t
type first appeared in
.IR OSF/1 \(rg " 1.1" .
.[
osfspg
.]
.PP
The queue
.IR qi_srvp ()
service procedure first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI

