'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: qinit.9.man,v 0.9.2.8 2005/11/24 01:40:51 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/11/24 01:40:51 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH QINIT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B qinit
\- \fISTREAMS\fP queue initialization structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2
typedef int (*qi_putp_t) (queue_t *, mblk_t *);
typedef int (*qi_srvp_t) (queue_t *);
typedef int (*qi_open_t) (queue_t *, dev_t *, int, int, cred_t *);
typedef int (*qi_close_t) (queue_t *, int, cred_t *);
typedef int (*qi_admin_t) (queue_t *);

struct qinit {
        qi_putp_t qi_putp;                      /* put procedure */
        qi_srvp_t qi_srvp;                      /* service procedure */
        qi_open_t qi_open;                      /* each open (read q only) */
        qi_close_t qi_close;                    /* last close (read q only) */
        qi_admin_t qi_admin;                    /* admin procedure (not used) */
        struct module_info *qi_minfo;           /* module info */
        struct module_stat *qi_mstat;           /* module stats */
};
\s+2\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The following are
.IR "SVR 4.2 EFT"
.[
svr42spg
.]
members:
.TP \w'qi_mstat\(em'u
.I qi_putp
contains a function pointer to the
.B put
procedure for a
.I STREAMS
module or driver.
.TP
.I qi_srvp
contains a function pointer to the
.B service
procedure for a
.I STREAMS
module or driver.
.TP
.I qi_open
contains a function pointer to the
.B open
routine for a
.I STREAMS
module or driver.
.TP
.I qi_close
contains a function pointer to the
.B close
routine for a
.I STREAMS
module or driver.
.TP
.I qi_admin
contains a function pointer to the
.B admin
routine for a
.I STREAMS
module or driver.
.TP
.I qi_minfo
contains a pointer to a
.BR module_info (9)
structure describing additional particulars about the
.I STREAMS
module or driver.
.TP
.I qi_mstat
contains a pointer to a
.BR module_stat (9)
structure containing run-time statistics for the
.I STREAMS
module or driver.
.PP
There are no
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
specific members associated with the
.B qinit
structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B qinit
structure is a statically allocated structure that is used in the definition of a
.I STREAMS
module or driver.
When a
Stream
is created as a result of a call to
.BR open (2s)
or
.BR pipe (2s),
particulars about the
Stream head
and
driver queue pair are initialized to point to (usually two of) these structures.
.PP
Pointers to two or four
.B qinit
structures are used as the primary definition of a
.I STREAMS
module or driver in the
.BR streamtab (9)
structure.
Two
.B qinit
structures are referenced for the read and write side of a module, and two pairs of
.B qinit
structures are referenced for the read and write side of a driver, one pair for the upper
multiplexer and another for the lower multiplexer for a multiplexing driver.
.\"
.SS Module and Driver Entry Points
.PP
The
.IR qi_putp ,
.IR qi_srvp ,
.IR qi_open ,
.IR qi_close ,
and
.IR qi_admin
represent the primary functional entry points into the module or driver and are invoked at the
appropriate times by the
.I STREAMS
scheduler.
.PP
The
.I qi_putp
and
.I qi_srvp
fields are significant in each
.B qinit
structure associated with a
.BR queue (9).
The
.I qi_open
and
.I qi_close
members are only significant in the
.B qinit
structure associated with the read-side
.BR queue (9)
structure.
.I STREAMS
ignores the values of the
.I qi_open
and
.I qi_close
function pointers in the
.B qinit
structure associated with the
write-side
.B queue (9)
structure of a queue pair.
.PP
For a description of the use and guidelines for the
.IR qi_open ,
.IR qi_close ,
.IR qi_putp ,
and
.IR qi_srvp ,
functions provided by a module or driver, see
.BR open (9s),
.BR close (9s),
.BR put (9s),
and
.BR srv (9s).
.\"
.SS Initialization
.PP
The
.I qi_minfo
member points to a
.BR module_info (9)
structure that contains the name and identifier for the module or driver.  The
.I qi_minfo
.BR module_info (9)
structure also contains the initialization queue packet size and flow control limits used to
initialize
.BR queue (9)
structures when a queue pair is formed.
.PP
Four members of the
.BR queue (9)
structure,
.IR q_minpsz ,
.IR q_maxpsz ,
.IR q_hiwat ,
and
.IR q_lowat ,
are initialized from the
.BR module_info (9)
structure pointed to by this structure.
These members of the
.BR queue (9)
structure are initialized from the associated
.B qinit
structure's referenced
.BR module_info (9)
structure.
See
.BR queue (9)
and
.BR module_info (9)
for more information.
.\"
.SS Statistics
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR queue (9),
.BR module_info (9),
.BR module_stat (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 EFT MP" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B qinit
structure first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
