'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: qreply.9.man,v 0.9.2.18 2005/12/02 12:05:16 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/12/02 12:05:16 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH QREPLY 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B qreply
\- replys to a message from a \fISTREAMS\fR message queue
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "void qreply(queue_t *" q ", mblk_t *" mp );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the queue from which to reply.
.PD 0
.TP
.I mp
the message to reply with.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR qreply ()
replies, with the message pointed to by
.IR mp ,
to the read queue that is upstream from the specified write queue
pointed to by
.IR q ,
or the write queue downstream from the specified read queue pointed to by
.IR q .
.PP
.BR qreply ()
is normally used within
.IR q 's
.IR qi_putp (9)
or
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure to reply to messages that have arrived on its write queue from
upstream, or its read queue from downstream.
.PP
It is the responsibility of the procedure calling
.BR qreply ()
with a normal message pointer to by
.I mp
to first call
.BR canputnext (9)
or
.BR bcanputnext (9)
for the queue to check for flow control.  If
.BR canputnext (9)
or
.BR bcanputnext (9)
fails for queue
.IR q ,
the procedure should not normally invoke
.BR qreply ()
with a low priority message for the flow controlled queue
.BI OTHERQ( q ) ->q_next .
.PP
.BR qreply ()
will wake up any processes waiting with
.BR qwait (9)
or
.BR qwait_sig (9)
on the previous queue
.BI OTHERQ( q ) ->q_next .
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR qreply ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR qreply ()
is always successful.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR qreply ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR qreply ()
is MP-safe.  The caller is responsible for ensuring exclusive access to the
passed in message block.  The caller should remove all global references to
the passed in message block before calling
.BR qreply ().
.PP
.BR qreply ()
whould always be used in the MP environment in preference to
.BI put(OTHERQ( q ) ->q_next ", " mp )
because the later does not protect dereference of the
.I q_next
pointer.
.BI putnext(OTHERQ( q "), " mp )
would be an acceptable alternative.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BI qreply( q ", " mp )
has the same effect as
.BI putnext(OTHERQ( q "), " mp )).
Because
.BR qreply ()
invokes the
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure of the upstream or downstream queue, the same care
should be taken with
.BR qreply ()
as is taken with
.BR putnext (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.IR qi_putp (9),
.IR qi_srvp (9),
.BR canputnext (9),
.BR bcanputnext (9),
.BR qwait (9),
.BR qwait_sig (9),
.BR strqget (9),
.BR strqset (9),
.BR putnext (9),
.BR qprocsoff (9),
.BR OTHERQ (9),
.BR freezestr (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR qreply ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR qreply ()
is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and implementations based on
.IR "SVR 4" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR qreply ()
could panic the kernel if passed a
.B NULL
or invalid queue or message pointer.
Under
.IR LiS ,
.BR qreply ()
fails silently and frees
.I mp
if
the message pointer
.I mp
is
.BR NULL ;
the queue pointer
.I q
is
.BR NULL ,
or
.BI OTHERQ( q )
is
.BR NULL ;
.BI OTHERQ( q )
does not refer to a queue structure;
.BI OTHERQ( q ) ->q_next
is
.BR NULL ;
.BI OTHERQ( q ) ->q_next
does not refer to a queue structure;
.BI OTHERQ( q ) ->q_next->q_info
is
.BR NULL ,
or
.BI OTHERQ( q ) ->q_next
does not have a
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedure;
.BI OTHERQ( q ) ->q_next
has
.IR qi_putp (9)
and
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedures turned off (e.g. with
.BR qprocsoff (9)).
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not pass
.B NULL
or invalid queue or message pointers to
.BR qreply ().
.IP \(em
.BR qreply ()
protects dereference of the
.I q_next
pointer with the stream head read lock.
.I SVR 4.2 MP
and
.IR Solaris \(rg
offer the same protection.
Under
.IR LiS ,
.BR qreply ()
does not protect dereference of the
.I q_next
pointer against module pushes and pops.
See
.BR putnext (9)
for additional information.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers in a multiprocessor (MP) environment can assume that
.BR qreply ()
properly protects dereference of the
.I q_next
pointer.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
modules and drivers will not use
.I LiS
and will use
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
in its place.
.IP \(em
.BR qreply ()
may be called on a stream frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg
and
.IR UnixWare \(rg
do not permit
.BR qreply ()
to be called on a stream frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.[
solspg
.]
.[
suxspg
.]
.[
uw7spg
.]
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should not call
.BR qreply ()
on a stream frozen with
.BR freezestr (9).
.\".IP \(em
.\"Symbol
.\".BR lis_safe_qreply ()
.\"is provided for compatibility with
.\".IR LiS .
.\"See
.\".BR liscompat (9).
.\".BR lis_safe_qreply ()
.\"simply calls
.\".BR qreply ()
.\"directly.
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" .
.[
usldk
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR qreply ()
appears as part of
.IR "SVR 4.0 STREAMS" .
.[
svr4spg
.]
.PP
.BR qreply ()
first appeared in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
