'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: qscan.9.man,v 0.9.2.6 2008-04-28 12:53:54 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:54 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: qscan.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.6  2008-04-28 12:53:54  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.5  2006/04/05 09:44:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH QSCAN 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B qscan
\- place a queue on the scan list
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.HP
.BI "void qscan(queue_t *" q );
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I q
the queue to scan.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
Stream head,
.BR sth (4),
uses
.BR qscan ()
to place one its write queues on the scan list
.I scanqhead
for coallescing writes with the
.B SO_STRHOLD
feature (see
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)).
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.I STREAMS
provides a hold option that improves performance of
.I STREAMS
when the process issues many small writes.  The message hold option is enabled if the system
adminstrator has changed the system control,
.BR sys.streams.strhold ,
to be non-zero and if the Stream head flag
.B STRHOLD
is set by a driver or module.
A downstream driver or module sets the Stream head
.B STRHOLD
bit by issuing a
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message upstream with the
.BR SO_STRHOLD
flags bit set in the
.I so_flags
member of the
.BR stroptions (9)
structure contained in the message.  (The
.BR ldterm (4)
tty line discipline module does this.)  The process may also issue a
.BR I_SWROPT (7)
command to
.BR ioctl (2s)
with the
.BR STRHOLD
flag set in the argument to enable the hold option on a particular Stream, but this is a
.B "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
extension.  Normally the hold option can only be activated and deactivated by a downstream module or
driver.
.PP
The message hold option exploits the fact that
.BR allocb (9)
allocates a buffer with a data size that is always equal to or greater than
.BR FASTBUF .
The buffer is allocated and the data is copied into it.
.BR write (2s)
then checks to see if another
.BR write (2s)
of the same size will fit into the same buffer.  If it will, the buffer is held temporarily on the
Stream head write queue, a timer is started (usually, 10 milliseconds, but settable with the
.BR sys.streams.rtime
system control), and the Stream head is linked onto the
.I scanqhead
list in the
.I STREAMS
scheduler by calling
.BR qscan ().
.PP
One of three things will then happen:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
A second
.BR write (2s)
occurs with a data part that is small enough to fit into the remaining portion of the saved buffer.
The data is put into the buffer and sent downstream.  Since two writes have been sent downstream in
one message, the optimization is successful.
.IP (2)
A second
.BR write (2s)
occurs with a data portion that is too big to fit into the remaining portion of the saved buffer.
The saved message is sent downstream followed by another message holding the data of the second
.BR write (2s).
.IP (3)
No second
.BR write (2s)
occurs so the timer expires.  The timeout processing performed by
.BR queuerun (9)
scans the
.I scanqhead
list in the
.I STREAMS
scheduler and sends downstream any messages held on the Stream head write queue whose timeouts have
expired.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR qscan ()
returns
.BR void .
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR qscan ()
is always successful.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR qscan ()
can be called from any context, including user context, module procedures,
callouts, callbacks, soft interrupts (tasklets and bottom halves), and interrupt service routines.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR qscan ()
is processor-specific and inherently MP-safe.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR qscan ()
is an internal
.I STREAMS
function that was not intended to be called by the
.I STREAMS
driver or module writer.
.BR qscan ()
is not part of the DDI/DKI and should not be called by portable programs.
.BR qscan ()
is highly implementation dependent in function and prototype.  Use of this function by a driver or
module will guarantee that it is not portable even between release of
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
In implementation it is not too difficult to multiplex a single timer against the
.I scanqhead list, rather than setting a timer per Stream.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR sth (4),
.BR M_SETOPTS (9),
.BR stroptions (9),
.BR ldterm (4),
.BR I_SWROPT (7),
.BR ioctl (2s),
.BR allocb (9),
.BR write (2s),
.BR queuerun (9),
.IR STREAMS (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR qscan ()
has no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR qscan ()
is roughly compatible with the internal operations described for
.IR "SVR 4 STREAMS"
in
.RI \(lq "The Magic Garden Explained"
.[[\fB
magic
.]\fR].\(rq
.IP ""
.BR qscan ()
is an internal function that will not be called by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.
.IP \(em
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
solspg
.]
no longer implements this option.
.IP \(em
.IR UXP/V \(rg
.[
uxpspg
.]
and
.IR LiS
.[
lis
.]
implement this option.
.I LiS
chooses the expensive route of running a 10 millisecond timer per Stream
with the feature.  Since 10 milliseconds is a single tick on older
.B Linux
kernels, it is a particularly bad idea to run may single-tick timers.
.IP ""
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules expecting performance from the system should use
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
instead of
.IR LiS .
.IP \(em
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP"
and systems based on
.I "SVR 4"
do not export this function.
.IP \(em
Source and Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR qscan ()
is new for
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
