'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: queinfo.9.man,v 0.9.2.11 2005/12/06 09:39:20 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/12/06 09:39:20 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH QUEINFO 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B queinfo
\- \fISTREAMS\fR message queue information structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-1
.B "#include <sys/strsubr.h>
.sp
struct queinfo {
    queue_t rq;                 /* read queue */
    queue_t wq;                 /* write queue */
    struct stdata *qu_str;      /* stream head for this queue pair */
    wait_queue_head_t qu_qwait; /* wait queue for qwait */
    atomic_t qu_refs;           /* references to this structure */
#if defined CONFIG_STREAMS_DEBUG
    struct list_head qu_list;
#endif
};
\s+1\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
.TP \w'\fIqu_qwait\fR\(em'u
.I rq
the read queue in the pair.
.PD 0
.TP
.I wq
the write queue in the pair.
.TP
.I qu_str
the Stream head,
.BR stdata (9)
structure, to which this pair belongs.
.TP
.I qu_qwait
a wait queue for
.BR qwait (9)
and
.BR qwait_sig (9).
.TP
.I qu_refs
the number of references to this structure.
.TP
.I qu_list
a list of all
.B queinfo
structures for debugging.
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS ,
internal,
implementation specific.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
