'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff nocin nosi
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: queue.9.man,v 0.9.2.29 2008-04-28 12:53:55 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2008  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com/>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.  The author(s) will take no responsibility in it.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2008-04-28 12:53:55 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" $Log: queue.9.man,v $
.\" Revision 0.9.2.29  2008-04-28 12:53:55  brian
.\" - update file headers for release
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.28  2007/05/03 22:40:40  brian
.\" - significant performance improvements, some bug corrections
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.27  2007/03/31 15:50:12  brian
.\" - flow control corrections
.\"
.\" Revision 0.9.2.26  2006/04/05 09:44:15  brian
.\" - moved .so line and updated headers
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.so streams.macros
.\"
.\"
.TH QUEUE 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B queue, queue_t, queue_free
\- \fISTREAMS\fR message queue structure
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.PP
.nf
\fC\s-2
typedef struct queue {
    struct qinit *q_qinfo;      /* info structure for the queue */
    struct msgb *q_first;       /* head of queued messages */
    struct msgb *q_last;        /* tail of queued messages */
    struct queue *q_next;       /* next queue in this stream */
    struct queue *q_link;       /* next queue for scheduling */
    void *q_ptr;                /* private data pointer */
    size_t q_count;             /* number of bytes in queue */
    unsigned long q_flag;       /* queue state */
    ssize_t q_minpsz;           /* min packet size accepted */
    ssize_t q_maxpsz;           /* max packet size accepted */
    size_t q_hiwat;             /* hi water mark for flow control */
    size_t q_lowat;             /* lo water mark for flow control */
    struct qband *q_bandp;      /* band's flow-control information */
    unsigned char q_nband;      /* number of priority bands */
    unsigned char q_blocked;    /* number of bands flow controlled */
    unsigned char qpad1[2];     /* padding */
    /* Linux fast-STREAMS specific members */
    ssize_t q_msgs;             /* messages on queue */
    rwlock_t q_lock;            /* lock for this queue structure */
    int (*q_ftmsg) (mblk_t *);  /* message filter ala AIX */
    struct syncq *q_syncq;	/* syncrhonization queues */
    struct queue *q_nfsrv;	/* next forward queue w/ service procedure */
    struct queue *q_nbsrv;	/* next backward queue w/ service procedure */
    qi_putp_t q_putp;		/* put procedure cache pointer */
    qi_srvp_t q_srvp;		/* srv procedure cache pointer */
} queue_t;
\s+2\fP
.fi
.\"
.\"
.SH MEMBERS
.PP
The following members correspond to
SVR 4.2 EFT members:
.TP \w'\ q_blocked\ 'u
.I q_qinfo
.BR qinit (9)
structure for the queue;
.PD 0
.TP
.I q_first
first
.BR msgb (9)
structure (message) on the queue;
.TP
.I q_last
last
.BR msgb (9)
structure (message) on the queue;
.TP
.I q_next
downstream queue in this stream;
.TP
.I q_link
next queue to have its
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure scheduled;
.TP
.I q_ptr
a pointer to the module's private structure;
.TP
.I q_count
count of the data bytes in messages on the queue;
.TP
.I q_flag
queue flags:
.PD
.RS
.TP \w'\ QSVCBUSY\ 'u
.B QENAB
queue is enabled to run;
.PD 0
.TP
.B QWANTR
flow controlled forward;
.TP
.B QWANTW
back-enable necessary;
.TP
.B QFULL
queue is flow controlled;
.TP
.B QREADR
this is the read queue;
.TP
.B QUSE
queue being allocated;
.TP
.B QNOENB
do not enable with putq;
.TP
.B QUP
uni-processor emulation;
.TP
.B QBACK
the queue has been back enabled;
.TP
.B QOLD
module supports old style open/close;
.TP
.B QHLIST
stream head is on the scan list;
.TP
.B QTOENAB
to be enabled;
.TP
.B QSYNCH
flag for queue sync;
.TP
.B QSAFE
safe callbacks needed;
.TP
.B QWELDED
flags for welded queues;
.TP
.B QSVCBUSY
service procedure running;
.TP
.B QWCLOSE
q in close wait;
.TP
.B QPROCS
q has procs turned off;
.TP
.B QBLKING
queue procedures are not to spec and may block;
.TP
.B QSRVP
queue has a service procedure;
.TP
.B QSHEAD
queue actively belongs to a Stream head;
.PD
.RE
.TP
.I q_minpsz
minimum packet size accepted;
.PD 0
.TP
.I q_maxpsz
maximum packet size accepted;
.TP
.I q_hiwat
queue high water mark for flow control;
.TP
.I q_lowat
queue low water mark for flow control;
.TP
.I q_bandp
pointer to the
.BR qband (9)
structures representing the bands of the queue;
.TP
.I q_nband
number of queue bands present;
.TP
.I q_pad1
padding.
.PD
.PP
The following members are
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
specific members:
.TP \w'\ q_blocked\ 'u
.I q_blocked
number of flow controlled bands
.PD 0
.TP
.I q_msgs
number of message on the queue (for optimization of
.BR qsize (9));
.TP
.I q_lock
queue read write lock;
.TP
.I q_ftmsg
message filter
(to support
.BR wantmsg (9));
.TP
.I q_syncq
synchronization queue;
.TP
.I q_nfsrv
next foward queue with service procedure (or Stream end);
.TP
.I q_nbsrv
next backward queue with service procedure (or Stream end);
.TP
.I q_putp
cached put procedure function pointer;
.TP
.I q_srvp
cached service procedure function pointer;
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH FUNCTIONS
.PP
.PP
The following queue utility functions are provided (these functions each take a pointer to a
.B queue
structure):
.PP
.TP \w'\ bcanputnext(9)\ \-\ 'u
\fBOTHERQ\fP(9) \-
other queue in a queue pair
.PD 0
.TP
\fBRD\fP(9) \-
read queue of a queue pair
.TP
\fBSAMESTR\fP(9) \-
next queue in the same stream
.TP
\fBWR\fP(9) \-
write queue of a queue pair
.TP
\fBallocq\fP(9) \-
allocate a queue pair
.TP
\fBappq\fP(9) \-
append a message behind another in a queue
.TP
\fBbackq\fP(9) \-
feeding queue
.TP
\fBbcanput\fP(9) \-
test band for flow control for a queue
.TP
\fBbcanputnext\fP(9) \-
test band for flow control for next queue
.TP
\fBcanenable\fP(9) \-
test if queue can be enabled
.TP
\fBcanput\fP(9) \-
test for flow control for a queue
.TP
\fBcanputnext\fP(9) \-
test for flow control for next queue
.TP
\fBenableok\fP(9) \-
allow a queue to be enabled
.TP
\fBflushband\fP(9) \-
flush messages from a band of a queue
.TP
\fBflushq\fP(9) \-
flush messages from a queue
.TP
\fBfreeq\fP(9) \-
free a queue pair
.TP
\fBfreezestr\fP(9) \-
freeze the stream containing a queue
.TP
\fBgetq\fP(9) \-
get a message from a queue
.TP
\fBinsq\fP(9) \-
insert a message before another in a queue
.TP
\fBmi_bufcall\fP(9) \-
enable a queue on bufcall
.TP
\fBnoenable\fP(9) \-
prohibit enabling of a queue
.TP
\fBput\fP(9) \-
put a message to a queue's put procedure
.TP
\fBputbq\fP(9) \-
put a message back on a queue
.TP
\fBputctl\fP(9) \-
put a control message on a queue
.TP
\fBputctl1\fP(9) \-
put a one-byte control message on a queue
.TP
\fBputnext\fP(9) \-
put a message on the next queue
.TP
\fBputnextctl\fP(9) \-
put a control message on the next queue
.TP
\fBputnextctl1\fP(9) \-
put a one-byte control message on the next queue
.TP
\fBputq\fP(9) \-
put a message on a queue
.TP
\fBqattach\fP(9) \-
attach a queue pair to a stream
.TP
\fBqbufcall\fP(9) \-
perform a buffer callback for a queue
.TP
\fBqclose\fP(9) \-
close a queue pair
.TP
\fBqcountstrm\fP(9) \-
count the data bytes on all queues in a stream
.TP
\fBqdetach\fP(9) \-
detach a queue pair from a stream
.TP
\fBqenable\fP(9) \-
enable a service procedure for a queue
.TP
\fBqopen\fP(9) \-
open a queue pair
.TP
\fBqprocsoff\fP(9) \-
turn put and service procedures off for a queue pair
.TP
\fBqprocson\fP(9) \-
turn put and service procedures on for a queue pair
.TP
\fBqreply\fP(9) \-
reply with a message for a queue
.TP
\fBqsize\fP(9) \-
count the messages on a queue
.TP
\fBqtimeout\fP(9) \-
schedule a timeout for a queue
.TP
\fBqunbufcall\fP(9) \-
cancel a buffer call for a queue
.TP
\fBquntimeout\fP(9) \-
cancel a timeout for a queue
.TP
\fBqwait\fP(9) \-
wait for a put to a queue
.TP
\fBqwait_sig\fP(9) \-
wait for a signal or put to a queue
.TP
\fBqwriter\fP(9) \-
call exclusive procedure for a queue
.TP
\fBrmvq\fP(9) \-
remove a message from a queue
.TP
\fBsetq\fP(9) \-
set the parameters of a queue pair
.TP
\fBstrqget\fP(9) \-
get a parameter for a queue
.TP
\fBstrqset\fP(9) \-
set a parameter for a queue
.TP
\fBunfreezestr\fP(9) \-
thaw the stream containing a queue
.PD
.PP
.B queue_free
is a per-thread pointer to the list of free queue structures for fast allocation or deallocation.
This per-thread global does not really exist.  There is, instead, a global memory cache pointer for
queinfo structures.
.\"
.\"
.SH INTERFACE
.PP
.IR STREAMS .
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B queue
structure is a structure dynamically allocated by
.IR STREAMS (9)
using the
.BR allocq (9)
utility.
.B queue
structures are always allocated in pairs by the
.BR allocq (9)
utility.
.I STREAMS
allocates a queue pair as an array of two elements, where each element is a
.B queue
structure.  The first queue in the array corresponds to the read-side queue in the pair; the second,
the write-side queue.
.B queue
pairs are deallocated with
.BR freeq (9).
.PP
.I STREAMS
keeps track of the number of queue pairs currently allocated by
.BR allocq (9),
and a system high water mark of allocations active since the last boot.
This information is available to system administration in the
.B /proc/streams/strinfo
system file.
.\"
.\"
.SH USAGE
.PP
.\"
.SS Queue Pair Linkage
.PP
Queue pairs form an instance of the Stream head, driver or module within a Stream.  The Stream is a
linear sequence of queue pairs connected in two directions by their
.I q_next
pointers.
.I q_next
pointers point to the corresponding queue in the next queue pair along the Stream and are used for
passing messages along the Stream.
The
.I q_next
pointers of the read queues in each queue pair point upstream beginning at the driver, following up
the read queues of the module stack, and terminating at the Stream head read queue.  The
.I q_next
pointer of the Stream head read queue contains
.BR NULL .
The
.I q_next
pointers for the write queues in each queue pair point downstream beginning at the Stream head,
following dosn through the write queues of the module stack, and terminating at the driver.  The
.I q_next
pointer of the driver write queue contains
.BR NULL .
.\"
.SS Queue Pair Initialization
.PP
When a
.B queue
structure is allocated by
.I STREAMS
and linked into a Stream, elements of each queue structure in the queue pair are initialized.
.PP
The
.B QUSE
bit is set in the
.I q_flag
member of each queue to indicate that it is initialized.
The
.B QREADR
bit is set for the read queue and cleared for the write queue.  For any given queue pointer, this
flag indicates whether the queue referenced is a read or write queue.
While the queue pair is still in the initialization process, and before
.BR qprocson (9)
is called for the queue pair, the
.B QPROCS
bit is set, indicating that the queue's procedures are disabled.  This is
also the case after
.BR qprocsoff (9)
is called on close.
While the queue pair is in operation,
.B QPROCS
is clear on both queues.
While
.I STREAMS
is waiting for the write queue of a queue pair to drain on close, the
.B QWCLOSE
bit is set in
.IR q_flag .
.PP
The
.I q_qinfo
pointer of the read queue is initialized to point to the
.I st_rdinit
pointer of the driver or module
.BR streamtab (9)
structure; the write queue
.IR q_qinfo ,
the
.I st_wrinit
pointer.
These
.BR qinit (9)
structures contain the
.IR qi_putp (9)
and
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedures associated with each queue.  The
.BR qinit (9)
structure associated with the read queue contains the
.IR qi_qopen (9)
and
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedures associated with the queue pair.
.PP
Each queue's associated
.BR qinit (9)
structure also contains a pointer to the
.BR module_info (9)
structure,
.IR qi_minfo ,
that is used to initialize packet size and flow control values in each queue.  The
.IR mi_minpsz ,
.IR mi_maxpsz ,
.IR mi_hiwat ,
.IR mi_lowat ,
members of the
.BR module_info (9)
structure are used to initialize the corresponding
.IR q_minpsz ,
.IR q_maxpsz ,
.IR q_hiwat ,
.IR q_lowat ,
members of the
.B queue
structure.
.PP
When the driver or module
.IR qi_qopen (9)
procedure is called, the driver or module can associated module private information with each
.B queue
structure using the
.I q_ptr
member.  This use of this member is private to the module and will not be altered or examined by
.IR STREAMS .
When the driver or module
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedure is called, the driver or module has the opportunity to deallocate and resources that were
associated with the
.I q_ptr.
This member is typically used by the module to point to an allocated structure containing module
private state information.  It is common that the
.I q_ptr
members of both the read and write queues are directed at the same module private structure.
.\"
.SS Message Queues
.PP
Each queue in a queue pair contains a message queue.  The message queue is a
.BR NULL -terminated,
double-linked list of
.BR msgb (9)
structures representing messages on the queue.
The message queue is ordered with respect to the priority of messages on the queue.
.I q_first
points to the head of the queue.  This is the first message on the queue awaiting processing.  When
the message queue is empty,
.I q_first
contains
.BR NULL .
.I q_last
points to the tail of the queue.  This is the last message on the queue available for processing.
When the message queue is empty,
.I q_last
contains
.BR NULL .
.I q_count
contains the byte count of all the normal (priority zero) and high priority message blocks contained
on the message queue.
.PP
The message queue can also contain priority messages (messages in which the
.I b_band
member is non-zero).
Each band that currently has, or has previously had, a message of that band queued to the message
queue will also have a
.BR qband (9)
structure that locates the messages of the same priority within the message queue.
.BR qband (9)
structures are linked onto a list beginning with the
.I q_bandp
pointer.
.I q_nband
contains the band number of the highest priority
.BR qband (9)
structure linked to
.IR q_bandp .
This is also the number of
.BR qband (9)
structures attached.
Each queue band structure provides a
.I qb_first
and
.I qb_last
pointers that point to messages only within the band.
.\"
.SS Queue Scheduling
.PP
Although queue
.IR qi_putp (9)
procedures are directly invoked by
.IR STREAMS ,
a queue's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure can be scheduled for later execution.
.I STREAMS
utilities that place a message on the message queue can cause the queue's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedures to be scheduled.
.BR qenable (9)
directly schedules a queue, and when scheduled, the queue is termed
.RI \(lq enabled \(rq.
When a queue becomes enabled, the
.B QENAB
flag is set in the
.I q_flag
member of the queue, and the queue is linked onto the tail off a list of queues awaiting
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure execution using the
.I q_link
pointers in the
.B queue
structures forming the list.
.PP
The
.I STREAMS
.BR noenable (9)
utility sets the
.B QNOENB
flag to indicate to
.I STREAMS
utilities placing messages on the message queue that the queue's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure is only to be
scheduled for high priority messages.
.BR enableq (9)
clears the
.B QNOENB
flag, and
.BR canenable (9)
tests it.
When the queue's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure is run by the
.I STREAMS
scheduler, the scheduler first sets the
.B QSVCBUSY
flag before running the procedure to indicate that the queue has its
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure executing.


.\"
.SS Flow Control
.PP
Any
.I STREAMS
utility function placing a normal (priority zero) or high priority message on the queue will adjust
.I q_count
and compare it with
.IR q_hiwat .
If the count exceeds the high water mark, the
.B QFULL
bit will be set in
.I q_flag
to indicate that the queue is blocked by flow control.
Any
.I STREAMS
utility function placing a priority message on the queue will adjust
.I qb_count
for the corresponding
.BR qband (9)
structure,
and compare it with
.BR qb_hiwat .
If the count exceeds the high water mark, the
.B QB_FULL
bit will be set in
.I qb_flag
to indicate that the queue band is blocked by flow control.  The
.I q_blocked
member will also be incremented if the queue band was previously unblocked.
.PP
Any
.I STREAMS
utility function removing a normal (priority zero) or high priority message from the queue will
adjust
.I q_count
and compare it with
.IR q_lowat .
If the count drops beneath the low water mark, the
.B QFULL
bit will be cleared in
.I q_flag
to indicate that the queue is no longer blocked by flow control.
Any
.I STREAMS
utility function removing a priority message from the queue will adjust
.I qb_count
for the corresponding
.BR qband (9)
structure,
and compare it with
.IR qb_lowat .
If the count drops beneath the low water mark, the
.B QB_FULL
bit will be cleared in
.I qb_flag
to indicate that the queue is no longer blocked by flow control.  The
.I q_blocked
member will also be decremented if the queue band was previously blocked.
.PP
Whenever
.BR getq (9)
is called to removes a message from a message queue and the message queue is found to be empty,
.I STREAMS
sets the
.BR QWANTR
in the
.I q_flag
member of the corresponding queue.
(Since
.B QWANTR
is only set on an empty queue, there is no corresponding
.RB \(lq QB_WANTR \(rq
flag for the
.BR qband (9)
structure.)
The
.B QWANTR
flag signals
.I STREAMS
utilities that place messages onto the message queue that the queue's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure needs to be scheduled and the flag cleared.
.PP
Whenever
.BR canput (9)
or
.BR canputnext (9)
is called and the queue is found to be flow controlled (i.e., the
.B QFULL
bit is set in
.IR q_flag ),
the
.B QWANTW
flag is set in
.IR q_flag .
.BR bcanput (9)
and
.BR bcanputnext (9)
called for a queue band that is flow controlled (i.e., the
.B QB_FULL
bit is set in
.IR qb_flag ),
the
.B QB_WANTW
bit is set in the
.I qb_flag
member of the corresponding
.BR qband (9)
structure.
The
.B QWANTW
and
.B QB_WANTW
flags are an indication that an feeding queue wishes to write to a flow controlled queue or queue
band.
When messages are removed from the message queue or queue band that cause its count to fall to the
low water mark, feeding queues are back-enabled.  Back-enabling consists of locating the feeding
queue that wanted to write (one with a
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure) and causing its
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure to be scheduled.
When a Stream head write queue is back-enabled in this fashion,
.I STREAMS
sets the
.B QBACK
or
.B QB_BACK
flag in the
.I q_flag
or
.I qb_flag
members to indicate for which message bands the queue was back-enabled.
.\"
.SS Packet Sizes
.PP
A
.I STREAMS
driver or module specifies the minimum and maximum packet sizes that it wishes to accept for each
queue in a queue pair by setting the
.I q_minpsz
and
.I q_maxpsz
members of the
.B queue
structure.  The initial values of these members is taken from the corresponding members,
.I mi_minpsz
and
.I mi_maxpsz
of the
.BR module_info (9)
structure pointed to by the
.BR qinit (9)
structure used to initialize the
.BR queue .
.PP
On a write queue, 
.I q_minpsz
and
.I q_maxpsz
specify the minimum and maximum packet sizes accepted by the driver or module in the downstream
direction.  The sizes act as advice to the upstream module.  If the upstream module is the Stream
head, the Stream head will observe the minimum and maximum packet sizes when generating messages
from the
.BR write (2s),
.BR putmsg (2s),
.BR putpmsg (2s),
system calls, and
.BR ioctl (2s)
system calls that generate messages (e.g.,
.BR I_FDINSERT (7)).
(Note that the Stream head does not use its write queue but, rather, places messages directly on the
write queue at the top of the module stack.)
.PP
When performing a write or write-like operation, the Stream head interprets
.I q_minpsz
and
.I q_maxpsz
different, depending on the value of
.IR q_minpsz :
.IP \(bu \w'\(bu\(em'u
When
.I q_minpsz
is zero, the write operation will fragment writes larger than
.I q_maxpsz
down into multiple messages of
.I q_maxpsz
or less.
.IP \(bu
When
.I q_minpsz
is non-zero,
a write operation of less than
.I q_minpsz
or more than
.I q_maxpsz
will fail with
.IR errno (3)
set to
.RB [ ERANGE ].
See
.BR write (2s)
for details.
.PP
On a read queue,
.I q_minpsz
and
.I q_maxpsz
specify the minimum and maximum packet sizes accepted by the driver or module in the upstream
direction.  The sizes act as advice to the downstream module.  At the Stream head, the read queue
packet sizes act as advise to the top of the module stack; however, the Stream head is always
prepared to accept a data stream message of any size.
The Stream head read queue packet sizes can be adjusted by any driver or module by sending an
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
message to the Stream head.
.\"
.SS Specialized Flags and Members
.PP
Several additional flags can be set on a queue during initialization to indicate specific
specialized features:
.TP \w'QWELDED\(em'u
.B QUP
indicates that the queue is operating in uni-processor emulation mode.
This bit is set at initialization of the queue pair.
Uni-processor
emulation mode is not supported by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.TP
.B QOLD
indicates that the prototype of the
.I qi_qopen
procedure is the old
.IR "SVR 3" -style
prototype.
This bit is set at initialization of the queue pair.
Old style
.I qi_qopen
prototypes are not supported by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.TP
.B QHLIST
indicates that, instead of being linked on the run queues list with
.IR q_link ,
a Stream head write queue is linked on the scan list with
.IR q_link .
As the Stream head write queue does not have a
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure, it can only be linked on the scan
list.  The scan list is used by the
.B SNDHOLD
feature (see
.B SO_STRHOLD
under
.BR M_SETOPTS (9)
for details.)
.TP
.B QTOENAB
indicates that the queue needs to be enabled (or does TO stand for timeout?).
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7doc
.]
uses this bit for some unknown purpose.
This bit is set while the queue pair is active.
Its use is not supported by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.TP
.B QSYNCH
set by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
when a synchronization queue has been allocated and attached to the
.I q_syncq
member of the structure.
This bit is set at initialization of the queue pair.
The use of this bit is implementation specific.
.TP
.B QSAFE
indicates that the module requires safe callbacks (that is, interrupts are to
be suppressed before calling callback functions).  This has the effect of
freezing the Stream with
.BR freezestr (9)
before the callback is invoked and thawing the Stream with
.BR unfreezestr (9)
after the callback returns.
This bit is set at initialization of the queue pair.
Its use is supported by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.TP
.B QWELDED
set when two queue pairs are welded together using the
.BR weldq (9)
utility function.
Its use is supported by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.TP
.B QBLKING
Used by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
to indicate a queue pair for a module or driver that at registration time
indicated that it was not to specification an might block in its service
procedure.  See
.BR str_install_AIX (9).
.TP
.B QSRVP
Use by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
to cache the fact that the queue has a service procedure.
.TP
.B QSHEAD
Use by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
to indicate that the queue is actively part of a Stream head.  That is, the
queue belongs to a Stream head and the Stream is not currently linked under a
multiplexing driver.
.PP
Also,
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
provides some implementation specific members to the
.B queue
structure:
.TP \w'q_ftmsg\(em'u
.I q_msgs
used by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
to hold a count of the number of messages on the message queue.  This is in support of the
.BR qsize (9)
utility.
.TP
.I q_lock
read-write lock used by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
to provide shared or exclusive access to the structure.
.TP
.I q_ftmsg
used by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
to support
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
message filtering (see
.BR wantmsg (9)
for details).
.TP
.I q_syncq
used by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
to attach synchronization queues in support of
.I STREAMS
synchronization levels.
.TP
.I q_nfsrv
Used by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
in a fashion similar to
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
to store the next forward (fed) queue that either has a service procedure or is the
last queue (Stream end) in the forward direction.  This cache pointer is used
to speed execution of
.BR bcanputnext (9)
and friends when many modules without service procedures are pushed on a
Stream.
.TP
.I q_nbsrv
Used by
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" ,
in a fashion similar to
.IR Solaris \(rg,
.[
solspg
.]
to store the next backward (feeding) queue that either has a service procedure or is the
last queue (Stream end) in the backward direction.  This cache pointer is used
to speed execution of
.BR qbackenable (9)
and friends when many modules without service procedures are pushed on a
Stream.
.TP
.I q_putp
Used by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
to cache the put procedure function pointer.  This saves continual
dereferencing of
.I q->q_qinfo->qi_putp
to obtain the procedure pointer.  Because the
.BR qinit (9)
structure is statically allocated by the module, better cache efficiency can
be achieved by storing this function pointer in the queue structure.
.TP
.I q_srvp
Used by
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
to cache the service procedure function pointer.  This saves continual
dereferencing of
.I q->q_qinfo->qi_srvp
to obtain the procedure pointer.  Because the
.BR qinit (9)
structure is statically allocated by the module, better cache efficiency can
be achieved by storing this function pointer in the queue structure.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
Functions that operate on a queue or queue pair can be called from any
context.
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.PP
The queue pointers and members, with the exception of the
.I q_next
pointer and the
.I q_flag
member, are protected by the queue read write lock,
.RI ( q_lock ).
The
.I q_next
pointer is protected with the stream head read write lock.
The
.I q_flag
member is protected using atomic bit operations.
.PP
Because the queue read write lock
.RI ( q_lock )
is not a nesting lock,
functions that take the queue write lock cannot be invoked again by the same
thread, or cause the invocation of another function that takes the queue write
lock by the same thread or single-party deadlock will result.
.\"
.\"
.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.PP
The following subsections provide implementation details with regard to the allocation and
deallocation of queue pairs under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" :
.\"
.SS Allocation
.PP
When
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
allocates a queue pair with
.BR allocq (9),
the first element, or read-side queue has the
.B QREADR
flag set in its
.I q_flag
member; the second, write-side queue, has the
.B QREADR
flag clear.
Given a pointer to a
.B queue
structure, one can determine whether it is the read-side or write-side queue of the queue pair by
examining the
.B QREADR
flag.
When
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
allocates a queue pair, it sets the
.B QUSE
flag in both queues of the pair; when deallocating, this flag is cleared in both queues.
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
allocates a queue pair, using
.BR allocq (9),
in two situations:
.\" --------
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
allocates a queue pair to form an instance of a driver or module in a Stream, during
.BR qattach (9).
.BR qattach (9)
is called for a queue pair forming a module instance by the
.BR I_PUSH (7)
.BR ioctl (2s)
system call; for a driver instance, by the
.BR open (2s)
system call.
This is the normal case for creation of a queue pair to represent a driver or module in the Stream.
.\" --------
.IP (2)
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
allocates a queue pair to form an instances of a Stream head, during
.BR stropen ().
.BR stropen ()
is called for a queue pair forming a Stream head instance by the
.BR open (2s)
or
.BR pipe (2s)
system call.
This is a special case of creating a Stream head for a Stream when the Stream is first created.
.\" =====================
.PP
In the normal case of allocating a queue pair to form a driver or module instance,
.BR qattach (9)
is used to allocate, initialize and attach the queue pair.
.BR qattach (9)
performs the following actions:
.\" -----------
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
.BR qalloc (9)
is called to allocate and initialize the queue pair.
.IP ""
.BR qalloc (9)
performs the following actions:
.RS
.\" -----------
.IP a) \w'W)\(em'u
.BR allocq (9)
is called to allocate a queue pair from cache memory and increment the count of the number of
currently allocated queue pairs.
.\" -----------
.IP b)
The
.B QPROCS
and
.B QNOENB
bits are set in the
.I q_flag
member of each queue, to disable queue procedures.
.\" -----------
.IP c)
.BR setsq (9)
is called to allocate any synchronization queues necessary to represent the synchronization model
under which the driver or module is running, and attaches them to the
.I q_syncq
private member of the
.B queue
structure.  See
.BR syncq (9)
for more information on synchronization queues.
.\" -----------
.IP d)
.BR setq (9)
is called to:
.RS
.\" -----------
.IP \- \w'\-\(em'u
locate the
.BR qinit (9)
structures associated with the
.I st_rdinit
and
.I st_wrinit
members of the
.BR streamtab (9)
structure defining the driver or module;
.\" -----------
.IP \-
attach the
.BR qinit (9)
structures to the
.I q_qinfo
member of each
.BR queue ;
and,
.\" -----------
.IP \-
initialize the packet sizes and flow control levels,
.IR q_minpsz ,
.IR q_maxpsz ,
.IR q_hiwat ,
.IR q_lowat ,
from the corresponding
.IR mi_minpsz ,
.IR mi_maxpsz ,
.IR mi_hiwat ,
.IR mi_lowat ,
members of the
.BR module_info (9)
structure associated with each
.BR qinit (9)
structure (via the
.IR qi_minfo
member).
.RE
.IP ""
See
.BR setq (9)
for details of its operation.
.RE
.\" -----------
.IP (2)
.BR qinsert (9)
is called to half-insert the queue pair into the Stream beneath the Stream head.
The insertion is a half-insertion in the sense that the
.I q_next
pointers of the inserted queue pair point to the
Stream head
on the read-side and the module stack on the write-side, but the
.I q_next
pointers of the Stream head and the top of the module stack do no yet point to the half-inserted
module.  Messages active in the
Stream
will bypass the half-inserted module.  This situation persists until
.BR qprocson (9)
is called, either by the driver or module
.IR qi_qopen (9)
procedure, or by
.BR qattach (9)
later in this sequence.
See
.BR qinsert (9)
for details.
.\" -----------
.IP (3)
.IR qi_qopen (9)
is called to invoke the driver or module
.IR qi_qopen (9)
procedure found in the
.I qi_qopen
member of the
.BR qinit (9)
structure associated with the read side queue pair.  An error returned from this procedure causes
the queue pair to be deleted from the Stream and deallocated.
The error code is used in the return to the corresponding
.BR open (2s)
system call, or
.BR I_PUSH (7)
.BR ioctl (2s).
.\" -----------
.IP (4)
If the queue pair forms an instance of a driver,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
checks whether the device number returned from the driver
.IR qi_qopen (9)
procedure is different than the device number passed.
When the returned device number differs,
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
looks up the new device number in its
.BR cdevsw (9)
tables, and, if the
.BR streamtab (9)
associated with the new device table entry differs from that of the original device table entry,
then a
.BR setsq (9)
and
.BR setq (9)
operation is performed again on the Stream, to reinitialize the queues in the pair to values
associated with the new
.BR streamtab (9).
.[
magic
.]
See also
.RI \(lq NOTICES ,\(rq
below.
.\" -----------
.IP (5)
.BR qprocson (9)
is called which performs the following actions:
.RS
.\" -----------
.IP a) \w'W)\(em'u
If the
.B QPROCS
bit is clear on the read queue of the queue pair, it indicates that procedures are already enabled,
in which case,
.BR qprocson (9)
takes no further action.
If the
.B QPROCS
bit is set, the driver or module
.IR qi_qopen (9)
procedure forgot (or was not designed to) call the
.BR qprocson (9)
facility, in which case, the remaining actions are performed.
.\" -----------
.IP b)
The
.B QPROCS
and
.B QNOENB
bits are cleared in the
.I q_flag
members of each queue in the queue pair.  Clearing these flags enables procedures for each queue.
.\" -----------
.IP c)
The
.B QWANTR
bit is set in the
.I q_flag
members of each queue in the queue pair.  Setting this flag causes the queue's
.IR qi_srvp (9)
procedure to be scheduled on the first message that is placed on its message queue.
.\" -----------
.IP d)
The half-insertion performed by
.BR qinsert (9)
is completed.  That is, the
.I q_next
pointers of the Stream head and top of the module stack are adjusted to no longer bypass the queue
pair, but now point to the queue pair.
.\" -----------
.IP e)
The
.I sd_minpsz
and
.I sd_maxpsz
fields in the
.BR stdata (9)
structure
(Stream head)
are set to the corresponding
.I q_minspz
and
.I q_maxpsz
values from the write queue of the queue pair, which now occupies the top of the module stack.
(The
Stream head
caches these values to avoid problems with referencing a non-existent driver write queue.)
.RE
.\" -----------
.IP (6)
The queue pair is then active within the Stream.
.PP
For the special case, where a queue pair is created as an instance of a Stream head,
.BR stropen ()
creates the pair in a similar fashion as above.  See
.BR stdata (9)
for details.
.\" =====================
.\"
.SS Deallocation
.PP
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
deallocates a queue pair only after it is no longer needed by a Stream.  Queue pairs forming an
instance of a module are released as part of the
.BR I_POP (7)
operation to
.BR ioctl (2s)
for the queue pair.
Queue pairs forming an instance of the Stream head, or an instance of a driver, are only released as
part of the last
.BR close (2s)
system call resulting in dismantling of the Stream.
.PP
Queue pairs forming instances of a module are removed from the Stream and deallocated by calling
.BR qdetach (9)
for the queue pair directly from the
.BR I_POP (7)
handling in the Stream head.
Queue pairs forming instances of a driver are removed from the Stream and deallocated by calling
.BR qdetach (9)
also, however,
.BR qdetach (9)
is called from
.BR strwaitclose ()
which is called from
.BR strlastclose ().
which is normally called from
.BR strclose ().
.PP
.BR strlastclose ()
is normally called from
.BR strclose ()
whenever the last
.BR close (2s)
system call in performed on a
Stream.
However,
Streams
that are linked under a multiplexing driver and then closed will have
.BR strlastclose ()
called when the Stream is unlinked.
A
.IR STREAMS -based
.BR pipe (4)
that has one end mounted with
.BR fattach (3)
and then closed, will have
.BR strlastclose ()
called when the other end of the pipe is closed for the last time.
Otherwise, a
Stream
that is mounted with
.BR fattach (3)
and then closed, will have
.BR strlastclose ()
called when unmounted with
.BR fdetach (3).
.PP
.BR strwaitclose ()
will wait up to
.B 15 seconds
for the write side of a queue to drain under certain circumstances.  See
.BR close (2s)
for details.
.PP
.BR qdetach (9)
performs the following actions when detaching an deallocating a queue pair:
.IP (1) \w'(0)\(em'u
.IR qi_qclose (9)
is called to invoke the
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedure of the driver or module located in the
.I qi_qclose
member of the
.BR qinit (9)
structure associated with the read queue of the queue pair.
.IP (2)
.BR qprocsoff (9)
is called to ensure that the driver or module writer did not forget to call
.BR qprocsoff (9)
from the driver or module
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedure.
.BR qprocsoff (9)
checks the
.B QPROCS
bit in the
.I q_flag
member of the read side queue to determine whether it has already been called for the queue pair.
If the
.B QPROCS
bit is set, then procedures are disabled and no action is taken.
If the
.B QPROCS
bit is clear, procedure are still enabled and the driver or module writer forgot to call
.BR qprocsoff (9)
from the
.IR qi_qclose (9)
procedure.  (The driver or module could also have been written to uni-processor
.IR "SVR 4" ,
which did not have a
.BR qprocsoff (9)
facility.)
.IP ""
.BR qprocsoff (9)
then performs the following actions:
.RS
.IP a) \w'W)\(em'u
The
.B QPROCS
and
.B QNOENB
flags are set for each queue.
.IP b)
The
.BR QENAB ,
.BR QWANTR ,
.BR QWANTW ,
bits are cleared for each queue.
.IP c)
The
.BR QB_WANTW
bit is cleared in each queue band for each queue.
.IP d)
The queue pair is half-deleted from the Stream.  That is, the
.I q_next
pointers of the Stream head and the top of the module stack are adjusted to bypass the queue pair
being half-deleted.
.IP e)
The
.I sd_minpsz
and
.I sd_maxpsz
fields in the
.BR stdata (9)
structure
(Stream head)
are ajusted to reflect the values of the driver or module now beneath the Stream head.
.RE
.IP (3)
.BR qdelete (9)
is called to complete the half-deletion of the queue pair.
.BR qdelete (9)
also releases the intial allocation reference to the queue pair.  This often results in the
immediate deallocation of the queue pair; however, if the
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
scheduler is still holding a temporary reference to the queue pair, the queue pair will not be
deallocated until that reference is released.
When the last reference is released,
.BR freeq (9)
is called to deallocate the queue pair.
.IP ""
.BR freeq (9)
performs the following actions:
.RS
.IP a) \w'W)\(em'u
The
.B QUSE
bit in the
.I q_flag
member of each queue in the queue pair is cleared indicating that the queue pair is deallocating.
.IP b)
.BR flushq (9)
is called with the
.B FLUSHALL
flag on each queue to flush all messages from each message queue.
.BR freebands ()
is called on each queue to unlink and deallocate each
.BR qband (9)
structure linked to the
.I q_bandp
member of the
.B queue
structure.
.IP c)
Finally the peg counts of the number of queue pairs allocated is decremented, and the cache memory
associated with the queue pair is released.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
Members of the
.B queue
structure should not be accessed directly by
.I STREAMS
drivers or modules.  Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules should use the facilities provided by
.BR strqget (9)
and
.BR strqset (9)
for implementation and architecture independence.
.PP
The
.B queue
structure is only a subset of the
.B queinfo
structure used by the
.I STREAMS
scheduler.  Additional hidden fields are present in the
.B queinfo
structure.
.PP
Note that the description in
.I The Magic Garden Explained
.[
magic
.]
says that
.BR setq (9)
is called if the major device number changes in the device number returned by a driver's
.IR qi_qopen (9)
procedure.  This is because
.I "SVR 4"
does not associate more than one
.BR streamtab (9)
structure with a major device number.
.B @PACKAGE_TITLE@
has the ability to associate a different
.BR streamtab (9)
structure with each minor device number as well, so the entire device number is checked under
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@" .
.\"
.\"
.\".SH EXAMPLES
.\".PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR OTHERQ (9),
.BR RD (9),
.BR SAMESTR (9),
.BR WR (9),
.BR allocb (9),
.BR allocq (9),
.BR appq (9),
.BR backq (9),
.BR bcanput (9),
.BR bcanputnext (9),
.BR canenable (9),
.BR canput (9),
.BR canputnext (9),
.BR enableok (9),
.BR flushband (9),
.BR flushq (9),
.BR freeq (9),
.BR freezestr (9),
.BR getq (9),
.BR insq (9),
.BR noenable (9),
.BR put (9),
.BR putbq (9),
.BR putctl (9),
.BR putctl1 (9),
.BR putnext (9),
.BR putnextctl (9),
.BR putnextctl1 (9),
.BR putq (9),
.BR qattach (9),
.BR qbufcall (9),
.IR qi_qclose (9),
.BR qcountstrm (9),
.BR qdetach (9),
.BR qenable (9),
.IR qi_qopen (9),
.BR qprocsoff (9),
.BR qprocson (9),
.BR qreply (9),
.BR qsize (9),
.BR qtimeout (9),
.BR qunbufcall (9),
.BR quntimeout (9),
.BR qwait (9),
.BR qwait_sig (9),
.BR qwriter (9),
.BR rmvq (9),
.BR setq (9),
.BR strqget (9),
.BR strqset (9),
.BR unfreezestr (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
The
.B queue
structure is compatible with
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
and systems based on
.IR "SVR 4.2" ,
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
The flags defined for the
.I q_flag
member of the
.B queue
structure are not necessarily binary compatible with any given implementation.
.IP ""
.IR HP-UX \(rg
.[
hpuxspg
.]
defines the additional flags for the
.I q_flag
member of the
.B queue
structure
not supported by
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
as follows:
.BR QBACKTRACE ", " QPOP .
.IR HP-UX \(rg
does not document the
.BR QTOENAB ", " QSVCBUSY " or " QWCLOSE
flags.
.IP ""
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
solspg
.]
defines the additional flags for the
.I q_flag
member of the
.B queue
structure
not supported by
.B Linux-Fast STREAMS
as follows:
.BR QPAIR ", " QPERQ ", " QPERMOD ", " QMTSAFE ", " QMTOUTPERIM ", " QEND ",
.BR QWANTWSYNC ", " QSYNCSTR ", " QISDRV ", " QHOT ", " QNEXTHOT ",
.BR _QINSERTING " and " _QREMOVING .
.IR Solaris \(rg
does not document the
.BR QUP ", " QOLD ", " QTOENAB ", " QSYNCH ", " QSAFE " or " QWELDED
flags.
.IP ""
.IR UnixWare \(rg
.[
uw7spg
.]
defines the additional flags for the
.I q_flag
member of the
.B queue
structure
not supported by
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
as follows:
.BR QINTER ", " QBOUND ", " QDEFCNT " and " QMOVED .
.IR UnixWare \(rg
does not document the
.BR QOLD ", " QSAFE " or " QWELDED
flags.
.IP ""
.IR AIX \(rg
.[
aixspg
.]
defines the additional flags for the
.I q_flag
member of the
.B queue
structure
not supported by
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
as follows:
.BR QUNWELDING ", " QPROTECTED " and " QEXECOPENCLOSE .
.IR AIX \(rg
does not document the
.BR QUP ", " QTOENAB ", " QSYNCH ", " QSAFE ", " QSVCBUSY " or " QWCLOSE
flags.
.IP ""
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
.[
osfspg
.]
defines the additional flags for the
.I q_flag
member of the
.B queue
structure
not supported by
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
as follows:
.BR none .
.IR OSF/1 \(rg
does not document the
.BR QUP ", " QTOENAB ", " QSVCBUSY " or " QWCLOSE
flags.
.IP ""
.IR LiS
.[
lis
.]
defines the additional flags for the
.I q_flag
member of the
.B queue
structure
not supported by
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
as follows:
.BR QRETRY ", " QSCAN ", " QWASFULL " and " QWAITING .
.IR LiS
does not provide the
.BR QUP ", " QOLD ", " QTOENAB ", " QSYNCH ", " QSAFE " or " QWELDED
flags.
.IP ""
.IR UXP/V \(rg
.[
uxpdoc
.]
defines the additional flags for the
.I q_flag
member of the
.B queue
structure
not supported by
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
as follows:
.BR none .
.IR UXP/V \(rg
does not document the
.BR QUP ", " QBACK ", " QOLD ", " QHLIST ", " QTOENAB ", " QSAFE ", " QWELDED ", " QSVCBUSY " or " QWCLOSE
flags.
.IP ""
.BR QUP
is sometimes called
.BR QBLKING " or " QUPMODE .
.BR QHLIST
is sometimes called
.BR QSCAN .
.BR QSYNCH
is sometimes called
.BR QFREEZE " or " QLOCK .
.BR QSVCBUSY
is sometimes called
.BR QINSERVICE " or " QRUNNING .
.BR QWCLOSE
is sometimes called
.BR QCLOSEWT " or " QCLOSING .
.BR QPROCS
is sometimes called
.BR QPROCSON " or " QPROCSOFF .
.IP \(em
.I LiS
uses a
.I q_other
member which is not present.
.I LiS
drivers or modules that manipulate this queue field directly will not be binary compatible.
.I LiS
drivers or modules that use only
.BR RD (9),
.BR WR (9),
.BR OTHERQ (9),
will be compatible because they call external symbols provided by the
.I LiS
compatibility module.  See,
.BR liscompat (9).
.IP \(em
Any direct manipulation of any of the implementation specific members of the
.I LiS
structure by an
.I LiS
driver or module will result in binary incompatibility.
.IP \(em
.I LiS
does not provide the
.IR "SVR 4.2 EFT"
.[
svr42spg
.]
.I q_nband
member.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules will use
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
instead of
.IR LiS .
.IP \(em
All versions of
.I LiS
contain the bug that they keep track of message queue counts,
.IR q_count ,
.IR qb_count ,
in terms of the sum of the absolute sizes of the data buffers referenced by message blocks,
.RB ( "db_lim - db_base" ),
and not the sizes of the message blocks themselves,
.RB ( "b_wptr - b_rptr" ),
which does not conform to
.IR "SVR 4.2 STREAMS" .
.[
svr42spg
.]
See
.BR msgsize (9).
No other implementation has this bug.
.IP ""
Portable
.I STREAMS
applications programs, drivers and modules will use
.BR "@PACKAGE_TITLE@"
instead of
.IR LiS .
.IP \(em
Binary compatibility is not guaranteed.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR "SVR 4.2 EFT MP" ,
.[
svr42
.]
.IR Solaris \(rg
.[
solspg
.]
documentation.
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
The
.B queue
structure was introduced in
.IR "SVR 3" .
.[
svr3spg
.]
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
