'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: qwait.9.man,v 0.9.2.15 2005/09/20 05:10:20 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2005  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2005/09/20 05:10:20 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH QWAIT 9 "@PACKAGE_DATE@" "@PACKAGE@-@VERSION@" "@PACKAGE_TITLE@ DDI/DKI"
.\"
.\"
.SH NAME
.B qwait, qwait_sig
\- wait for a queue message or signal
.\"
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #define _SUN_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/ddi.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/sunddi.h>
.HP
void \fBqwait\fR(queue_t *\fIq\fR);
.PD 0
.HP
int \fBqwait_sig\fR(queue_t *\fIq\fR);
.PD
.\"
.\"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I q
the read queue of the queue pair for which to wait for a
.BR put (9)
or
.BR srv (9)
procedure to run.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR qwait ()
is called within a module or driver's
.BR qopen (9)
or
.BR qclose (9)
procedure to await the arrival of a message at the queue pair indicated by the
read queue pointer,
.IR q .
.PP
.BR qwait_sig ()
is called in the same manner as
.BR qwait ();
however,
.BR qwait_sig ()
may be interrupted by a signal.
The value returned by
.BR qwait_sig ()
indicates whether the wait was terminated as a result of a message arriving at
the queue pair, or whether it was a result of interruption by a signal.
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
.BR qwait ()
returns
.B void
once a
.BR put (9)
or
.BR srv (9)
procedure has been executed for the queue pair.
.PP
.BR qwait_sig ()
returns true (1) if a
.BR put (9)
or
.BR srv (9)
procedure has been executed for the queue pair; and returns false (0) if a
signal interrupted the wait.
.\"
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.BR qwait ()
and
.BR qwait_sig ()
are always successful.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONTEXT
.PP
.BR qwait ()
or
.BR qwait_sig ()
can only be called from user context, or within the
.BR qopen (9)
and
.BR qclose (9)
procedures for the queue pair.
.BR qprocson (9)
must be executed before calling
.BR qwait ()
or
.BR qwait_sig ().
.BR qwait ()
and
.BR qwait_sig ()
must be called before calling
.BR qprocsoff (9).
.PP
.BR qwait ()
and
.BR qwait_sig ()
must not be called for a
.I Stream frozen by the caller with
.BR freezestr (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH MP-STREAMS
.PP
.BR qwait ()
and
.BR qwait_sig ()
are MP-safe when called from the correct context.
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR qwait ()
and
.BR qwait_sig ()
are
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
function:
.B _SUN_SOURCE
must be defined before including DDI/DKI include files to expose these symbols.
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
must also have been compiled with
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN
or
.B CONFIG_STREAMS_COMPAT_SUN_MODULE
defined.
.PP
Because
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
only allows one thread entry to the
.BR qopen (9)
or
.BR qclose (9)
procedures, invoking
.BR qwait ()
might indefinitely postpone non-exclusive open or close of the
.I STREAMS
file.
.BR qwait_sig ()
is a better choice for almost all circumstances.
The caller of
.BR qwait_sig ()
should exit the
.BR qopen (9)
or
.BR qclose (9)
procedure with the error
.RB [ EINTR ].
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR SV_WAIT (9),
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG (9),
.BR qopen (9),
.BR qclose (9),
.BR qprocson (9),
.BR qprocsoff (9),
.BR freezestr (9).
.\"
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
.BR qwait ()
and
.BR qwait_sig ()
have no known bugs.
.\"
.\"
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.PP
.BR qwait ()
and
.BR qwait_sig ()
are compatible with
.IR Solaris \(rg
with the following portability considerations:
.IP \(em \w'\(em\(em'u
.BR qwait ()
and
.BR qwait_sig ()
are
.IR Solaris \(rg-specific
functions and should not be used by portable
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.  See the more standardized
.BR SV_WAIT (9)
and
.BR SV_WAIT_SIG (9)
functions provided by
.IR "SVR 4 MP" .
.IP \(em
.IR "SVR 4.2 MP DDI/DKI" ,
.[
usldk
.]
.IR AIX \(rg,
.IR HP-UX \(rg,
.IR OSF/1 \(rg,
.IR SUPER-UX \(rg,
.IR UnixWare \(rg,
.IR UXP/V \(rg
and
.IR LiS ,
do not provide this function.
.IP \(em
.BR qwait ()
and
.BR qwait_sig ()
are provided for source level compatibility with
.IR Solaris \(rg
for the purpose of porting
.IR Solaris \(rg
drivers to
.BR Linux .
Because internal structures and definitions for
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
lfs
.]
differ from that of
.IR Solaris \(rg,
binaries are incompatible.
.IP \(em
.BR qwait ()
and
.BR qwait_sig ()
only provide functionality comparable to
.IR Solaris \(rg
for use by
.I STREAMS
drivers and modules.
Any and all functionality provided by
.BR qwait ()
or
.BR qwait_sig ()
in support of
.RI non- STREAMS
devices are not supported.
.PP
See
.BR STREAMS (9)
for additional compatibility considerations.
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.IR Solaris \(rg
SUNDDI documentation.
.[
soldoc
.]
.\"
.\"
.SH HISTORY
.PP
.BR qwait ()
and
.BR qwait_sig ()
are
.IR Solaris \(rg
specific functions that first appeared in
.IR Solaris \(rg
2.5.
.\"
.\"
.[
$LIST$
.]
.TI
