'\" rtp
.\" -*- nroff -*- vim: ft=nroff noautoindent nocindent nosmartindent
.\"
.\" @(#) $Id: register_strdev_minor.9.man,v 0.9.2.3 2004/03/16 08:01:17 brian Exp $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2003  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
.\"
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" -------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
.\" on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
.\" provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
.\" of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
.\" under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
.\" Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
.\" Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
.\" license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
.\" Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
.\" DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
.\" Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
.\" of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any success
.\" regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
.\" NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.\" 
.\" Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
.\" OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
.\" 
.\" =========================================================================
.\"
.\" Last Modified $Date: 2004/03/16 08:01:17 $ by $Author: brian $
.\"
.\" =========================================================================
.so streams.macros
.R1
bracket-label "\fR[\fB" "\fR]" "\fR, \fB"
no-default-database
database streams.refs
accumulate
move-punctuation
abbreviate A
join-authors ", " ", " " and "
et-al " et al" 2 3
abbreviate-label-ranges ".."
sort-adjacent-labels
.R2
.\"
.\"
.TH REGISTER_STRDEV_MINOR 9 "$Date: 2004/03/16 08:01:17 $" "$Name:  $" "Linux Fast-STREAMS DDI/DKI"
.SH NAME
.B register_strdev_minor
\- register a \fISTREAMS\fR device to a minor device node
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sys/stream.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/strconf.h>
.HP
.BI "int register_strdev_minor(dev_t " dev ", struct cdevsw *" cdev );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR register_strdev_minor ()
allocate a device node
.IR dev ,
within the
.IR STREAMS (4)
character special device filesystem
and registers a new
.IR STREAMS (4)
device
.IR cdev ,
against that device node.
Once a
.IR STREAMS (4)
minor device is registered, opening a character device special node in any
filesystem will result in a call to the
.BR qopen (9)
routine for the registered device.
.\"
.\"
.SS ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP
.I dev
the character device number (major and minor) against which to register the
STREAMS device.
.TP
.I cdev
the character device switch table entry that describes the STREAMS device.
This is a pointer to a
.B struct cdevsw
structure containing the following members:
.RS
.TP
.I d_name
the name of the STREAMS minor device.
.TP
.I d_str
the
.B struct streamtab
for the STREAMS minor device.
.\".TP
.\".I d_flag
.\"flags for the STREAMS minor device.
.TP
.I d_kmod
when the minor device is associated with a loadable kernel module, the
.B struct module
structure for the loadable module.
.\".TP
.\".I d_count
.\"an open count for the cdevsw entry.
.\".TP
.\".I d_fop
.\"a pointer to the
.\".B struct file_operations
.\"for the STREAMS minor device.  These are overwritten by the
.\"system with stream head file operations.
.\".TP
.\".I d_op
.\"a pointer to the
.\".B struct special_operations
.\"for the STREAMS minor device.  These are overwritten
.\"by the system with stream head special file operations.
.\".TP
.\".I d_mode
.\"the
.\".B mode_t
.\"of the specfs file.  This is overwritten by the system with
.\".BR S_IFCHR .
.TP
.I d_push
a
.B MAX_APUSH
sized array of representing the push list for the STREAMS minor device.  Each
element in this array is either
.B NULL
or a character string providing the name of the module to be pushed.  The
first module name in the array is the first module pushed.  This list may be
altered by the STREAMS administrative driver or proc filesystem after the
device has been registered.
.RE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH NOTICES
.PP
.BR register_strdev_minor ()
does not allocate a new device major number with the
.B Linux
kernel.  Either the driver must also allocate the major device number
associated with the node using
.BR register_strdev_major (9)
or the device will only be accessible within STREAMS, or via the Named SREAMS
Device driver
.BR nsdev (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH RETURN
.PP
Upon success, the character device minor STREAMS device is registered and
.BR register_strdev_minor ()
return zero (0).
Upon failure,
.BR register_strdev_minor ()
returns non-zero.
.\"
.\"
.SH "ERRORS"
Upon failure,
.BR register_strdev_minor ()
returns one of the negative error numbers listed below:
.\"
.\"
.TP
.RB [ EINVAL ]
.I cdev
does not point to a valid character device switch table entry.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.RB [ ENOMEM ]
insufficient memory was avaialable to complete the request.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.RB [ EBUSY ]
a device is already registered against the character minor device, or the
character minor device is open under the specified major device number.
.\"
.\"
.TP
.RB [ ENODEV ]
the kernel loadable module associated with the STREAMS driver was unloaded by
the system.
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR unregister_strdev_minor (9),
.BR unregister_strdev (9),
.BR unregister_snode (9),
.BR qopen (9),
.BR nsdev (4),
.BR STREAMS (4).
.\"
.\"
.SH CONFORMANCE
.PP
.BR register_strdev_minor ()
is a
.B Linux Fast-STREAMS
.[
LfS
.]
specific function.  Because all STREAMS modules and drviers require some form of
registration, the use of this function cannot be avoided and remains a
non-portable element of STREAMS device drivers.
.SH "HISTORY"
.PP
A STREAMS device registration function appeared in
.I LiS\c
.
.[
LiS
.]
.XX
.[
magic
.]
.TI
